ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION                 AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    Alanco Technologies, Inc. ("Alanco") has two oil and gas assets in Western Colorado owned by Alanco Energy Services, Inc. ("AES"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.  The first is the Deer Creek water treatment and disposal facility located in Whitewater, CO.  The second is an undeveloped 160 acre owned site, known as Indian Mesa, which is permitted for evaporation ponds and in the permitting process for waste disposal, including NORM and TENORM.  Indian Mesa is located three miles from the Deer Creek site.     6      ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES     Deer Creek facility     In fiscal 2012, AES executed an agreement with TC Operating, LLC ("TCO") of Grand Junction, CO to transfer a land lease for approximately 24 acres near Grand Junction, CO ("Deer Creek site") and all related assets to AES.  AES has developed the Deer Creek site with approximately eight acres of evaporation ponds for the treatment and disposal of produced water generated by oil and gas producers in Western Colorado.  The Deer Creek site generally operates with one full time employee.  There are other facilities in Western Colorado and Eastern Utah which accept produced water deliveries; however, the Company believes that the Deer Creek site has a significant freight advantage for some producers in the region due to the facility's favorable location.  AES has been able to develop its customer base since the start of operations, however, demand has decreased in conjunction with decreased oil and gas prices.  The Deer Creek facility is subject to compliance with environmental laws under which it has established an Asset Retirement Obligation of $434,000 at June 30, 2016.    The Deer Creek disposal facility became operational in August 2012 with annual evaporative capacity of approximately 300,000 barrels, excluding any enhanced evaporation methods.  The facility provides some Piceance Basin producers with significant transportation cost savings compared to alternative water disposal sites.  In November 2014, the facility received approval from the Mesa County Board of Commissioners allowing 24 hours a day, seven days per week operations for two years.  Water deliveries have been negatively impacted by the falling market prices of oil and gas which significantly reduced drilling activities and fracking in the region and resulted in the closing of many of the producing oil and gas wells in the area.  The Company is continuing to analyze options to monetize current and future operations of Deer Creek.    Indian Mesa    The permitting process for Indian Mesa, located approximately three miles North West of the Deer Creek site, has been in process for a number of years with an initial County Use Permit issued in 2010 covering, among other things, evaporation ponds and land farming.  In December 2013, in response to an AES request to amend its County Use Permit ("CUP"), the Mesa County Board of Commissioners unanimously approved a new CUP for AES to construct and operate on its 160 acre Indian Mesa site evaporation ponds and/or landfill for disposal of solid oil and gas (O&G) waste, such as drill cuttings, tank bottoms, sock filters, etc.  The CUP approval also allows for solid and produced water disposal of Naturally-Occurring Radioactive Materials (NORM) and Technically Enhanced Naturally-Occurring Radioactive Materials (TENORM) which is in the permitting process with the State of Colorado.  In June 2014 AES received final construction approval from the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) for twelve produced water disposal ponds.    The capacity of Indian Mesa is dependent on its type of development.  If 80 acres is developed as 12 ponds as discussed above, the annual capacity at Indian Mesa for produced water, not considering enhanced evaporation, would be approximately 1 million barrels.  If the remaining 80 acres were developed into landfills, the capacity would be approximately 3 million cubic yards.  If the entire 160 acres were developed into landfill, the solid waste capacity would increase to approximately 8 million cubic yards.  Complete build-out of its Indian Mesa facility, including both landfill and evaporative ponds, would result in a unique Western Colorado "one stop shop" for all O&G waste products, including NORM and TENORM contaminated waste streams.  During fiscal year 2016, Alanco's Board of Directors approved a formal plan to sell Indian Mesa, consisting of land and associated permits.  Accordingly, the land and associated permit costs are being presented as "Assets Held for Sale" in the attached balance sheet as of June 30, 2016.    Critical Accounting Policies    "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" discusses our consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.  On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions concerning classification and valuation of investments, the estimated fair value of stock-based compensation and detachable warrants, realization of deferred tax assets, collectability of accounts and note receivable, estimated useful lives and carrying value of fixed assets, the recorded values of accruals and contingencies including the Black Creek contingent liability and the estimated fair values of the Company's asset retirement obligation and the contingent land and purchase price liabilities, and the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.  We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  The result of these estimates and judgments form the basis for making conclusions about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Actual results may materially differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.         7      A LA NCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES     The SEC suggests that all registrants discuss their most "critical accounting policies" in Management's Discussion and Analysis.  A critical accounting policy is one which is both important to the portrayal of the Company's financial condition and results and requires management's most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.  Management has identified the critical accounting policies as those accounting policies that affect its more significant judgments and estimates in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements.  The Company's Audit Committee has reviewed and approved the critical accounting policies identified.  These policies include, but are not limited to, revenue recognition, realization of accounts and note receivable, estimated useful lives and carrying value of fixed assets, classification of assets as held for sale, stock-based compensation, the recorded values of accruals and fair values of assets and liabilities including the Company's contingent liabilities.    Revenue Recognition  The Company uses four factors to determine the appropriate timing of revenue recognition.  Three of these factors are generally factual considerations that are not subject to material estimates (evidence of an arrangement exists, the service has been performed and the fee is determinable).  The fourth factor includes judgment regarding the collectability of the sales price.  The Company's written arrangement with customers establishes payment terms and the Company only enters into arrangements when it has reasonable assurance that it will receive payment from the customer.  The assessment of a customer's credit-worthiness is reliant on management's judgment on factors such as credit references and market reputation.  If any sales are made that become uncollectible, the Company establishes a reserve for the uncollectible amount.  Any sales tax for which the Company is responsible is recorded as a reduction of the associated revenue.    Realization of Accounts and Note Receivable  The Company uses the allowance method for potentially uncollectible trade accounts and note receivable.  An allowance for doubtful accounts is established based on a review of outstanding account balances.  The Company reviews payment history and credit worthiness in the determination of its allowance for doubtful accounts.  In addition, the Company considers the ACC note holder's projected revenues, related assumptions and cash flows which are largely influenced by political activities surrounding immigration reform.  Based on the uncertainty in the timing of immigration reform, the Company has fully reserved the amount of the Note Receivable as of June 30, 2016.    Estimated Useful Lives and Carrying Value of Fixed Assets  The Company values fixed assets based on cost and depreciates fixed assets based on estimated useful lives using the straight-line method, generally over a 3 to 20 year period.  Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred.  Upon retirement or disposal of assets, the cost and accumulated depreciation are eliminated and a gain or loss is recorded in the statement of operations.  The Company analyzes the carrying value of fixed assets by reviewing income projections and undiscounted cash flows which include assumptions based on current market conditions for anticipated revenues and expenses.  These assumptions are reasonably likely to change in the future based on changing markets, which may have a material effect on the carrying value or useful life.    Classification of Assets as Held for Sale  The Company reclassifies assets as held for sale based on meeting the criteria for the classification including approval of a formal plan to sell assets by the Company's Board of Directors.    Stock-Based Compensation  The Company has stock-based compensation plans and the associated compensation cost is amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.  The Company estimates the fair value of stock-based compensation using the Black-Scholes valuation model using the following inputs:  the plain-vanilla method for expected term based on the contractual term and vesting period of the award, the expected volatility of daily changes in the market price of the Company's common stock, the assumed risk-free interest rate and an assumption of future forfeitures based on historical cancellations and management's analysis of potential forfeitures.    Recorded Values of Accruals  The Company makes accruals for liabilities based on reasonable estimates for known or anticipated obligations.  Estimates may be based on known inputs, experience with similar situations, or anticipated outcomes.  Estimates for the Company's asset retirement obligation and contingent land payment are determined at discrete points in time based upon unobservable inputs in which little or no market activity exists that is significant to the fair value of the liability, therefore requiring the Company to develop its own assumptions.  Estimates for the asset retirement obligation were developed by a consultant knowledgeable about the State of Colorado regulatory requirements and use vendor estimates for the various activities required for the closure of the Deer Creek facility.  Estimates for the contingent land payment were calculated based on projected income, cash flows and capital expenditures for the Deer Creek and Indian Mesa facilities under current plans.     8      ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES     Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities  The Company estimates fair values for assets and liabilities at certain points in time based on information known at that time using the Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") and recognizes transfers as they occur.  The ASC uses a three level hierarchy:  Level 1 – unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets, Level 2 – observable inputs, other than quoted prices included with Level 1, and Level 3 – unobservable inputs in which little or no market activity exists that are significant to the fair value.  The asset retirement obligation and contingent land payment discussed above use Level 3 inputs.    Results of Operations    Net Revenues  Revenues for the year ended June 30, 2016 were $192,900 as compared to revenues for the year ended June 30, 2015 of $785,700, a decrease of $592,800, or 75.4%.  Revenues are comprised of produced water delivery fees and sales of reclaimed oil (net of associated taxes).  Revenues for fiscal 2016 were concentrated approximately 71.6% with three customers versus revenues for fiscal 2015 which were concentrated approximately 85.1% to four customers.  The significant customers represented $3,800, or 97.4% of the accounts receivable balance at June 30, 2016, while the significant customers for fiscal 2015 represented $14,900, or 32.5% of the accounts receivable balance outstanding at June 30, 2015.  Revenues were negatively impacted by the falling market prices of oil and gas which significantly reduced drilling activities and fracking in the region and resulted in the temporary closing of many of the producing oil and gas wells in the area.    Cost of Revenues  Cost of revenues for the years ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were $606,100 and $925,700, respectively, a decrease of $319,600 or 34.5%.  Cost of revenues consists of direct labor costs, equipment costs (including depreciation), land lease costs, pond maintenance and other operating costs.  The decrease is primarily due to lower pond maintenance costs in the current year including pond treatments to manage anaerobic bacterial conditions plus associated rental equipment and related fuel costs.  In addition, other variable costs decreased due to lower revenues and include labor costs and fees tied to water volumes.  Fixed costs such as depreciation, amortization, accretion and lease costs represent approximately 40% and 19% of the cost of revenues for the fiscal years 2016 and 2015, respectively.  Fixed costs for the fiscal year 2015 included the reversal of the contingent earn-out and the recovery of the associated amortization.  Without that adjustment, fixed costs for fiscal year 2015 would have been approximately 24% of the cost of revenues.  Gross profit for the year ended June 30, 2016 was a gross (loss) of ($413,200) and for the year ended June 30, 2015 was a gross (loss) of ($140,000).  The increased gross loss in the current year is due to the decreased revenues.    Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  Selling, general and administrative expenses (consisting of corporate expenses, AES selling, general and administrative expense and stock-based compensation) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016  was $1,207,700, an increase of $173,900, or 16.8%, compared to $1,033,800 reported for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015.  Corporate expenses for the fiscal year 2016 were $559,000 and represented an increase of $332,500, or 146.8%, compared to corporate expenses of $226,500 reported for the fiscal year 2015.  Approximately $266,400 of the increase is due to the reserve recorded by the Company for its note receivable from ACC, a related party.  Without this expense, corporate expenses for the current fiscal year would have reflected an increase of approximately $66,100, or 29.2%, as compared to the prior year.  The increased costs primarily relate to professional services including board fees and investment banking fees.  AES expense of $620,900 for fiscal year 2016 compared to $734,000 for the fiscal year 2015 reflects a decrease of $113,100, or 15.4%, is primarily related to a decrease in management fees for operations of the Deer Creek Water Disposal facility.  Stock-based compensation during fiscal 2016 was $27,800 compared to $73,300 for fiscal year 2015.  Stock-based compensation expense in both periods relates to stock options issued to the Company's officers and directors during the quarter ended December 31, 2014 which have been fully amortized.  No new stock options have been issued.     9      ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES     Operating Loss  Operating Loss for the year ended June 30, 2016 was ($1,620,900), an increase of $447,100, or 38.1%, compared to an Operating Loss of ($1,173,800) reported for the prior year.  The increased operating loss resulted from an increased gross loss plus an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2016 versus fiscal 2015.    Other Income and Expense  Interest income for the year ended June 30, 2016 was $28,800, a decrease of $12,700, or 30.6%, when compared to interest income of $41,500 for the year ended June 30, 2015.  The decrease in interest income related to the decrease in the outstanding amount of the note receivable and lower cash held in interest bearing accounts.    Interest expense for the year ended June 30, 2016 was $2,700 which included interest on the Anderson Family Trust Note Payable as well as amortization of associated loan costs and amortization on the value of detachable warrants.  There was no interest expense for the year ended June 30, 2015.    During the fiscal year 2015, the Company recorded a gain of $103,200 on the sale of 85,000 shares of ORBCOMM Common Stock at an average selling price of $6.38 as compared to the current fiscal year which had zero activity related to marketable securities as all shares of ORBCOMM Common Stock had been sold in the quarter ended December 31, 2014.  The Company had other income during the year ended June 30, 2015 of $128,500 of which $128,300 reflects the reversal of the previously accrued amount related to the TSI lawsuit which was reversed in the appellate court.  During the year ended June 30, 2016, the Company no other income.    Net Loss  Net Loss for the year ended June 30, 2016 was ($1,594,800), an increase of $694,200, or 77.1%, when compared to the net loss of ($900,600) for the previous year ended June 30, 2015.  The increase in net loss was primarily due to the increase in operating loss which included an increase in notes receivable reserves plus the decrease in the gain on sale of investments and other income as compared to the prior year.    Comprehensive Loss  Comprehensive loss for the year ended June 30, 2015 represents the unrealized change in market value of the Company's Marketable Securities held compared to the same period of the current fiscal year.  Comprehensive loss for the year ended June 30, 2015 consisted of the net value of two items:  1) the six months ending market value reclassification adjustment for gain included in Net Loss of ($103,200) and 2) the net unrealized loss on marketable securities sold during the period of ($18,000).  As of December 31, 2014 the Company had sold all shares of ORBCOMM, Inc. Common Stock and consequently there was no comprehensive loss for the current fiscal year.    Liquidity and Capital Resources    The Company's current assets exceeded its current liabilities by $1,449,500 at June 30, 2016, representing a current ratio of 4.6 to 1.  At June 30, 2015 the Company's current assets exceeded current liabilities by $670,600, representing a current ratio of 2.7 to 1.  The increase in current ratio at June 30, 2016 versus June 30, 2015 resulted primarily from the reclassification of the Company's AES Indian Mesa land and permits to Assets Held for Sale offset by a decrease in the Company's cash balance and the balance of the note receivable due net of reserve.    Net cash used in operating activities for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 was ($867,100) compared with net cash used in operating activities for the prior fiscal year of ($667,500).  The increase in cash used of $199,600 resulted primarily from the increase in net loss of $694,200, offset by decreases in the gain of marketable securities, decreases in accretion adjustments, and recording a reserve to note receivable in the current year.    Consolidated receivables at June 30, 2016 were $6,700 compared to receivables at June 30, 2015 of $50,100.  The receivables at June 30, 2016 relate to $3,900 of trade receivables for AES plus $2,800 of receivables from American Citizenship Center, LLC ("ACC"), a related party.  The receivables at June 30, 2015 relate to $45,900 of trade receivables for AES plus $4,200 of receivables from ACC.    Net cash provided by investing activities during the current year was $17,800, a decrease of $243,800 compared to net cash provided by investing activities in the prior year of $261,600.   The decrease was due primarily to a reduction in proceeds from the sale of marketable securities of $542,100 and a reduction in proceeds from note receivable repayments of $87,800, offset by a decrease in capital expenditures of $386,100.      10      ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES     Net cash provided by financing activities during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 amounted to $200,000, an increase of $220,800 compared to net cash used in financing activities of ($20,800) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015.  The increase is primarily due to proceeds provided from the Note Payable to the Anderson Family Trust entered into during the current fiscal year.    The Company has made a significant investment through June 30, 2016 in Alanco Energy Services, Inc. investing approximately $1.7 million in land, recorded as Assets Held for Sale, and $2.7 million in evaporation ponds and equipment for the Deer Creek water disposal site.    The Company has a note receivable from ACC, which was established to provide ACC working capital.  As of June 30, 2016, the note has an outstanding balance of $295,400, which has been fully reserved.  The note is secured by all assets of ACC and bears interest at the rate of 9.5% per annum.  Under the agreement and amendments thereto, the Company was issued a total of 300,000 warrants to purchase membership units of ACC at an exercise price of $1.00 per unit.  The warrants expire on August 31, 2017 and the value of said warrants is considered immaterial at both June 30, 2016 and 2015 due to the startup nature of ACC and the premium exercise price compared to the most recent membership unit sales, therefore, no value has been recorded for these warrants.    The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which contemplate continuation of the Company as a going concern and realization of assets and satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business.  As discussed in Note 15 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company's fiscal year 2017 operating plan includes divestiture of the undeveloped AES Indian Mesa land and associated permits, which is currently classified as Assets Held for Sale.  Management cannot assure that the sale of Indian Mesa will be finalized which would provide additional cash flow to the Company.  The Company is continuing to analyze options to monetize current and future operations of Deer Creek.  There is no assurance that the Company will be able to execute options for Deer Creek. The Company announced it is entering the behavioral health market and the business plan includes the acquisition of behavioral health businesses which requires capital.  There is no assurance the Company will be able to raise additional financing which may be in the form of public or private debt or equity financing, or both.  If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, the Company's business, operating results, financial condition and ability to continue operations may be materially adversely affected.   Management has historically been successful in obtaining financing and has demonstrated the ability to implement a number of cost-cutting initiatives to reduce working capital needs.  Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue to operate and do not include any adjustments that might be necessary if the Company is unable to continue as a going concern.  As a result, the Company's independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements of the Company for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 discussing the substantial doubt of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.    ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    Not applicable.   11      ALANCO TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES   ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 