-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 A8bncSJG4djz2auaGbuZVpftHUSBDcx8Z23RSpEdHlWyjxNznZ17ca0RK1G8vSVf
 VqKsOLQcTaZ4tiUES2W1NA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950135-97-003979.txt : 19970930
<SEC-HEADER>0000950135-97-003979.hdr.sgml : 19970930
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-97-003979
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19970630
FILED AS OF DATE:		19970929
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MATHSOFT INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895095
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				042842217
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20992
		FILM NUMBER:		97687019

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 MAIN ST
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142-1017
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6175771017

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 MAIN STREET
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142-1521
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>MATHSOFT, INC. FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                                  ------------

                                    FORM 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
     ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended JUNE 30, 1997

Commission file number 0-020992



                                 MATHSOFT, INC.
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


           MASSACHUSETTS                                      04-2842217
- ----------------------------------                         ----------------
   (State or other jurisdiction                            (I.R.S. employer
 of incorporation or organization)                          identification)

101 MAIN STREET, CAMBRIDGE, MASSACHUSETTS                       02142
- --------------------------------------------               ----------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                       (Zip code)


Registrant's telephone number, including area code (617) 577-1017

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                          COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE
                          ----------------------------
                                (Title of class)

       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]  No [ ]

       Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.____

       The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant was approximately $20,493,478 as of September 3, 1997 (computed
by reference to the closing price of such stock on the Nasdaq Small Cap 
Market). The number of shares of common stock, $.01 par value, outstanding as
of September 3, 1997 was 9,019,745.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

       Specified portions of the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 are incorporated by reference into Parts II and
IV hereof.

       The information required in response to Part III hereof is incorporated
by reference to the specified portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for
the 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on December 12, 1997.



<PAGE>   2

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

                                     General

       MathSoft, Inc. ("MathSoft" or the "Company") develops, markets and
       supports software productivity tools for the technical calculation and
       data analysis markets comprised of professionals, researchers, students
       and educators.

       Mathcad(R), the Company's principal technical calculation product, was
       first released in fiscal 1987 and can be used by desktop and laptop
       computer users to perform calculations from the simple to the elaborate,
       and then document the results. Mathcad offers technical professionals,
       educators, and students an interactive, intuitive, easy-to-modify
       alternative to their traditional calculation methods such as pencil and
       paper, scratchpads and calculators.

       The market for technical calculation software includes technical
       professionals, such as electrical, mechanical and civil engineers,
       scientists, mathematicians, researchers, technicians and analysts, as
       well as educators and students who regularly are required to perform
       technical calculations. These users often refer to a wide range of
       published materials containing formulas or data which can be used in
       solving technical problems.

       In 1992, the Company expanded its technical calculation software product
       line by introducing Electronic Books as add-on products to Mathcad. These
       books deliver extensive off-the-shelf technical information, such as
       formulas and data, which is critical to technical problem solving.
       Through the use of MathSoft's proprietary "live document interface(TM)"
       these books provide the Mathcad user with on-screen access to interactive
       technical information. This enables a Mathcad user to either perform
       calculations in the book itself or transfer formulas, data and results to
       Mathcad for instant calculation and analysis. The Company is delivering
       electronic versions of industry-leading reference works from nationally
       and internationally recognized publishers, in addition to internally
       authored works. In addition, the Company licenses its Mathcad and
       Electronic Book authoring technology to third party publishers for use in
       creating interactive Electronic Books which are marketed and distributed
       by such third party publishers as stand-alone products.

       In May 1993, the Company opened an International office located in the
       United Kingdom to broaden distribution of its products. In fiscal 1997,
       international sales of all technical calculation and data analysis
       software products and services represented 34.0% of total revenues.

       In June 1993, the Company introduced a new product line through its
       wholly-owned subsidiary, Statistical Sciences, Inc., now referred to as
       MathSoft's Data Analysis Products Division ("DAPD"). DAPD develops and
       markets advanced data analysis software products and services based on
       "S", a computer language designed for statistics applications. DAPD's
       principal product is S-PLUS(R), an interactive computing environment
       which provides both a full-featured graphical data analysis system and an
       object-oriented language. The Company acquired this business on June 30,
       1993, through the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and
       business of Statistical Sciences, Inc., a Washington corporation. In
       fiscal 1997, worldwide sales of data analysis products and services
       represented 30.9% of total revenues.

       The market for data analysis software consists principally of
       professional and academic scientists, engineers, statisticians and
       business analysts. Data analysis products are used in such fields as
       biomedical technology, quantitative financial analysis and risk
       assessment, environmental science and engineering, industrial and market
       research, and process control.

       In November 1995, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of
       TriMetrix(R), Inc. ("TriMetrix"), a Washington corporation, in a business
       combination accounted for as a pooling of interests. As a result of the
       business combination, TriMetrix became a wholly owned subsidiary of the
       Company. MathSoft complemented its technical calculation product line
       with the addition of Axum(R), a Windows-based technical charting and data



                                       2
<PAGE>   3
       analysis product acquired with TriMetrix, which transforms, manipulates
       and sorts data sets to perform both simple and advanced analysis. Axum
       has been redesigned to link seamlessly with Mathcad and is the
       technological foundation for the most recent release of S-PLUS, S-PLUS
       4.0, announced in June 1997.

       In June 1996, the Company released StudyWorks!(TM) for Math and
       StudyWorks!(TM) for Science targeted specifically toward high school and
       non-engineering college students and educators. Both StudyWorks products
       offer an interactive learning environment and assist students in both
       mastering math and science concepts and creating professional looking
       homework and lab reports in addition to allowing both educators and
       students the ability to collaborate on projects. In September 1996, the
       Company announced the release of StudyWorks!(TM) Schools, an
       instructional edition of the StudyWorks for Math and StudyWorks for
       Science software, which offers teachers a tools-based, interactive
       teaching and learning environment.

       In November 1996, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of
       acroScience Corporation ("acroScience"), a Washington corporation, in a
       business combination accounted for as a pooling of interests. As a result
       of the business combination, acroScience became a wholly owned subsidiary
       of the Company. MathSoft integrated visual modeling and programming
       technology acquired with acroScience into its technical calculation
       product line's latest release of Mathcad, Mathcad 7 for Windows, released
       in June 1997.

       In April 1997, the Company expanded its data analysis product line by
       introducing MathSoft StatServer(TM), a warehouse-independent platform for
       distributing statistical analysis and graphics to business professionals
       and analysts over company Intranets. StatServer uses the S-PLUS
       technology to create deployable intelligent analytics for an organization
       and integrates with existing data storage and desktop applications.

       The Company's goals are to continue to meet the expanding calculation and
       data analysis needs of technical professionals, to provide students and
       educators with software tools that can be used for learning and for
       solving real-world problems and to develop new products for the growing
       needs of businesses. The Company will continue to broaden the appeal for
       all of its products to existing and new markets through technological
       innovation, in such areas as ease-of-use, mathematical power, graphics
       and deployability, and to continue to expand its distribution as new
       products for new markets are introduced.

       The Company was incorporated in Massachusetts in October, 1984 under the
       name Engineering Specific Products Corp. and changed its name to
       MathSoft, Inc. in January 1986. The Company's principal executive offices
       are located at 101 Main Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, and its
       telephone number is (617) 577-1017.




                                       3
<PAGE>   4

                                    Products

Technical Calculation Software Products

       MathSoft publishes a range of technical calculation and software products
       which allow users to perform calculations and create publication-quality
       documents on personal computers. Its principal product in this category,
       Mathcad, is to technical professionals what spreadsheets have proven to
       be for business professionals. Mathcad can be used by desktop computer
       users to perform technical calculations, from the simple to the
       elaborate. An innovative feature of Mathcad is its ability to allow the
       user to electronically access and manipulate formulas and data available
       in the Company's Electronic Books and Function Packs. Electronic Books
       provide on-screen libraries of industry-leading reference works, user
       guides, solution templates, and educational materials while Function
       Packs provide additional functionality for advanced users. StudyWorks,
       the most recent addition to the Mathcad product line, was designed as an
       integrated learning tool combining math, text, graphs and graphics for
       the high school and college market. StudyWorks helps students master math
       and science concepts, get better grades and create professional-looking
       homework and lab reports.

       Mathcad

       Mathcad's broad appeal lies in its use of MathSoft's proprietary "live
       document interface" technology. This permits users to calculate on a
       computer in much the same way that they would on a scratchpad where
       equations can be written anywhere, using real math notation, and erased,
       changed and moved. A scratchpad can show a variety of expressions such as
       formulas, words, graphs, data, equations and pictures. Mathcad works in a
       similar free-form manner by literally turning a computer screen into a
       live worksheet and therefore provides a very intuitive interface to
       perform a wide range of numeric or symbolic calculations, but Mathcad has
       one distinct advantage over a real scratchpad -- it calculates.

       When using Mathcad, the computer screen initially appears blank like a
       scratchpad. Using the keyboard and the mouse, the user begins by placing
       the cursor anywhere on the screen and starts typing. To create a formula,
       the user types keystrokes (+, /, *, etc.) or uses a mouse to click on a
       symbol palette. As the user types, Mathcad automatically formats the
       formulas in standard mathematical notation and instantly calculates the
       results. To create a graph, the user selects the graph symbol from the
       palette and defines the parameters of the graph. As with an electronic
       spreadsheet, Mathcad instantly updates results as changes to variables or
       formulas are made. Text may be added anywhere. Multi-page presentation
       quality documents can be printed, complete with text, graphics, tables
       and equations. It's free-form interactive environment makes Mathcad ideal
       for formulating ideas, setting up problems and evolving solutions and
       sharing both the process and the results through printed documents,
       e-mail, and the World Wide Web.

       Mathcad is used as a calculator for simple formulas, as a more elaborate
       solver for equations formally linked within a "live document", as a
       technical report generator, as a live charting facility, and as a
       mathematical teaching environment. Mathcad also provides an interface to
       on-line technical reference works. Mathcad performs numeric and symbolic
       calculations in the real and complex domain, solves systems of linear and
       non-linear equations, and performs iterative calculations.

       Electronic Books

       An extension of the Mathcad product line, Electronic Books deliver
       information and solutions in an interactive form to Mathcad users.
       Electronic Books provide the user with on-screen libraries of technical
       data combined with Mathcad's capacity to utilize and manipulate the raw
       data through its "live document interface". This enables the user to
       search the book for material, use hyperlinks to jump to related sections
       within the work, and calculate problems and manipulate data using
       formulas and data contained in the work. A key feature of MathSoft's
       Electronic Books is that the material is live and interactive, enabling a
       Mathcad user to apply the formulas or data



                                       4
<PAGE>   5


       from the book either by performing calculations in the book itself or by
       transferring the formulas or data, or results, to Mathcad for calculation
       and analysis. Without the Electronic Book, the user must manually key in
       entire formulas from published sources before using the software to solve
       equations. The book may contain reference information (e.g., the
       properties of various materials and standard formulas), solutions for
       standard engineering problems, tutorials on selected topics, or
       educational courseware. Additionally, Mathcad's "live document interface"
       supports the inclusion of sound and video components.

       In addition to internally authored works, the Company delivers electronic
       versions of industry-leading reference works from nationally and
       internationally recognized publishers. The agreements by which the
       Company licenses content for Electronic Books from publishers typically
       provide for a non-exclusive license at an agreed upon royalty rate, and
       continue for a term of five to seven years unless extended by mutual
       agreement.

       The Company also licenses its Mathcad and Electronic Book authoring
       technology to third party publishers for use in creating interactive
       Electronic Books which are marketed and distributed by such third party
       publishers as stand-alone products. Users are not required to use Mathcad
       to access these interactive Electronic Books.

       Function Packs

       Function Packs provide additional functionality to Mathcad in the areas
       of signal processing, data analysis, statistics and graphics. Once
       installed, the functions are seamlessly integrated with the Mathcad
       function set allowing the user to see results immediately and explore the
       effects of changing parameters in mathematical routines.

       Axum

       In November 1995, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of
       TriMetrix, Inc., a software company located in Seattle, Washington and
       the developer of Axum software. Axum is a Windows-based advanced
       technical graphing and data analysis software which offers scientists and
       engineers in the technical professional market, including Mathcad users,
       the advanced charting tools needed for creating compelling, highly visual
       presentations and publication-quality documents. Users can transform,
       manipulate and sort data sets to perform both simple and advanced
       analysis. Axum has also been redesigned to link seamlessly with Mathcad.

       StudyWorks

       StudyWorks!(TM) for Math and StudyWorks!(TM) for Science, productivity
       software for high school and college students and their teachers, was
       designed as a rich learning environment that helps students understand
       math and science problems, complete and check a variety of solutions, and
       print out great looking lab reports and homework papers. It also contains
       a section to help users prepare for the SAT II tests. Each product is a
       three-in-one combination of an application, rich interactive content and
       a unique two-way internet access. StudyWorks is based on a powerful
       graphical calculation and document preparation tool and includes rich
       multimedia encyclopedias of math and science formulas and key concepts in
       algebra, geometry, earth science, chemistry, pre-calculus, physics,
       calculus and statistics. Users also receive built-in links to the
       Company's StudyWorks home page which allows high school students, college
       students and teachers to participate in virtual study groups and
       discussion forums, pick up Homework Hints and link to related sites on
       the World Wide Web.

       StudyWorks!(TM) for Schools, released in September 1996, was designed as
       the instructional edition complement to the Company's StudyWorks for Math
       and StudyWorks for Science software products. StudyWorks for Schools
       allows teachers to integrate software and distance learning approaches
       into their current math and science curriculum and provide students with
       an "active-learning", content-rich learning tool. StudyWorks for Schools
       integrates seamlessly with existing curricula, works with graphing
       calculators, includes a content-rich math and science reference library,
       and comes with a Teachers Resource Guide featuring sample lesson plans,
       classroom presentations, lab and homework exercises and tips for
       maximizing the use of the technology. It also connects 



                                       5
<PAGE>   6


       teachers and students to each other via the Web-based Collaboratory(TM)
       for a variety of distance learning applications, including virtual study
       groups, on-line tutoring, and the dissemination of class or lab notes,
       problem sets, exams and solutions.

Data Analysis Software Products

       S-PLUS

       On June 30, 1993, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of
       Statistical Sciences, Inc., a software company located in Seattle,
       Washington. The Company's principal product in this category, S-PLUS, is
       an advanced, exploratory data analysis and statistical data mining
       solution for technical and business professionals who need sophisticated
       analysis and visualization capabilities. Based on the object-oriented "S"
       programming language licensed from Lucent Technologies Inc., S-PLUS
       enables users to perform exploratory data analysis, graphics, statistics,
       visualization and mathematical computing in the Windows and UNIX
       environments. The primary advantage of S-PLUS lies within the "S"
       Language. The "S" language is the only modern object-oriented language
       created specifically for data visualization and exploration, statistical
       modeling and programming with data. This interactive language environment
       gives users immediate feedback at every stage of their analysis.

       Modules

       To complement S-PLUS, the Company offers add-on modules that work with
       S-PLUS and provide additional "S" language functions for specialized data
       analysis purposes.

       StatServer

       In April 1997, the Company expanded its data analysis product line by
       introducing MathSoft StatServer(TM). StatServer enables corporations to
       leverage existing client/server and Internet/Intranet technologies and
       deploy statistical expertise throughout an organization. StatServer is
       data warehouse-independent and integrates seamlessly with all standard
       database and data warehouse formats. The robust database support provides
       the tools for advanced analysis and data visualization of the most
       popular relational databases. With StatServer, basic statistical models
       and data visualization capabilities are built and stored in a central
       server for access by non-technical users, who can apply these analytical
       techniques from a single and familiar client to understand or interpret
       key data sets. Using StatServer, professionals in diverse fields such as
       finance, biomedicine and manufacturing can use familiar tools such as
       Excel, Netscape or Powerbuilder to access corporate data resources and
       perform data analysis without becoming experts in statistics or users of
       statistical tools. StatServer moves beyond the capabilities of report
       writers, spreadsheet applications and stand-alone data analysis software,
       representing a significant advancement in decision support and data
       mining technology.

Marketing and Sales

       Technical Calculation Software Products

       The Company's market for technical calculation software products consists
       of two significant groups of end users: technical professionals and
       educators and students. End users within the technical professionals
       group span numerous fields and include electrical, mechanical and civil
       engineers, scientists, mathematicians, researchers, technicians and
       analysts. The education market consists of secondary, undergraduate and
       graduate educators and students in many technical disciplines. The
       Company's products are currently used as tools for diverse purposes from
       back-of-the envelope calculations to bridge design and genetic
       engineering.

       MathSoft reaches domestic customers of Mathcad primarily through a
       network of educational and commercial third party resellers and
       distributors. To complement this network, the Company has a domestic
       telesales organization focused on sales to the registered installed base
       as well as lead generation, prospect qualification and



                                       6
<PAGE>   7

       sales of site license agreements and network licenses. In addition,
       Mathcad upgrades are primarily marketed to the Company's registered
       installed base via direct mail. In fiscal 1997, domestic sales through
       distributor and reseller channels accounted for 57.9% of total domestic
       sales of technical calculation software products, with the balance of
       such sales through either installed base direct mail or the Company's
       telesales operations.

       Internationally, all technical calculation software products are marketed
       primarily through a network of resellers and distributors. Mathcad
       upgrades are marketed through distributors as well as to the registered
       installed base via direct mail. In fiscal 1997, international sales
       through resellers and distributors accounted for 99.3% of total
       international sales of technical calculation software products.

       Data Analysis Software Products

       The Company's market for data analysis products consists principally of
       professional and academic scientists, engineers and statisticians. The
       product is used in such fields as biomedical technology, quantitative
       financial analysis and risk assessment, environmental science and
       engineering, industrial and market research, and process control.

       The Company reaches domestic customers of its data analysis products both
       through its domestic telesales organization and a new outside sales team.
       Leads are generated from advertising, vertical market list rentals and
       tradeshows, which are then pursued by the telesales organization.

       Internationally, the Company reaches customers of its data analysis
       products entirely through a network of resellers and distributors.

Customer Technical Support

       Technical Calculation Software Products

       MathSoft subcontracts customer technical support to its domestic
       customers by phone, fax and mail through a third party vendor located in
       Greely, Colorado. A technical support staff of engineers located in
       Cambridge is available to support the vendor in Colorado as well as to
       resolve the most difficult technical support issues. The Company provides
       this support free of charge to individual end-users. For corporate and
       academic network users, the Company provides this support free of charge
       for 30 days beginning with the first customer placed technical support
       request. Subsequent to this free support period, the Company offers a
       Premium Support Plan. The Company currently provides technical support
       for its StudyWorks products free of charge and additionally supports this
       product via the Company's home page on the World Wide Web.

       International customers who purchase product from distributors receive
       first line technical support from their respective local distributor. A
       technical support staff of engineers, located in the Company's United
       Kingdom sales and marketing office, is available to support the
       distributors.

       Data Analysis Software Products

       Technical support for the S-PLUS product line is provided to domestic
       customers by a staff of engineers located in Seattle. Support is only
       available to customers who purchase an annual maintenance and technical
       support plan.

       International customers who purchase products from distributors receive
       first line technical support from their respective local distributor. A
       technical support staff of engineers, located in the Company's United
       Kingdom sales and marketing office, is available to support the
       distributors.




                                       7
<PAGE>   8

Manufacturing and Distribution

       The Company utilizes several third party vendors to manufacture and
       distribute its products. This permits the Company to manage peak volumes
       customary in the software industry and to avoid having to maintain high
       fixed costs while experiencing daily fluctuations in order and customer
       contacts.

       The Company's practice is to ship its products promptly upon receipt of
       orders from its customers and, as a result, product backlog is not
       significant.

       Technical Calculation Software Products

       The Company subcontracts with a single independent third party vendor,
       located in Plymouth, Massachusetts, to manufacture all of its technical
       calculation software products and fulfill all of its domestic orders.

       With the exception of Mathcad upgrade orders generated by direct mail,
       the Company processes all domestic orders from its leased facilities
       located in Cambridge, Massachusetts. MathSoft subcontracts the processing
       of all Mathcad upgrade direct mail orders with an independent service
       company located in Chicago, Illinois.

       All international orders are processed by a third party vendor located in
       the United Kingdom that also provides warehousing and fulfillment
       services.

       Data Analysis Software Products

       The Company subcontracts with a third party vendor, located in Monroe,
       Washington, to manufacture all of its S-PLUS product line products. The
       Company warehouses inventory and processes and fulfills domestic orders
       internally out of its Seattle office. All international orders are
       processed and fulfilled by third party vendors located in the United
       Kingdom that also provide warehousing and fulfillment services.

Product Development

       MathSoft's research and development organization, divided between the
       Company's Cambridge, Massachusetts and Seattle, Washington locations, is
       responsible for software development, product documentation, and quality
       assurance. Its priorities are to continue technical innovation for power
       and performance and to respond to market feedback by continuing to design
       products for ease-of-use.

       MathSoft's development team consists of experts in software engineering,
       quality assurance, mathematics, statistics, engineering and
       documentation. In software engineering, MathSoft's professional staff has
       expertise in computer graphics, compiler design, user interface design
       and advanced Windows and Internet technologies.

       During the fiscal years ended June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995, research and
       development costs charged to operations were $5,143,000, $3,659,000, and
       $3,059,000, respectively. The Company does not capitalize internal
       software development costs.

Competition

       The markets for technical calculation and data analysis software products
       are highly competitive. In the technical calculation software market,
       MathSoft considers its principal competition to include technical
       calculation software from companies providing specialized tools, such as
       The MathWorks, Waterloo Maple Software and Wolfram Research. In the data
       analysis market, the Company considers its principal competition to
       include statistical software products from such companies as SAS, SPSS
       and Visual Numerics. In both markets, the Company faces competition from
       companies providing competing software solutions, such as spreadsheets.
       The Company may also face new competition from potential entrants into
       the technical calculation and data analysis software markets and more
       focused competition from companies in related markets, such as providers
       of spreadsheet programs, which could add to or improve the technical
       calculation and data analysis functionality of their existing products.



                                       8
<PAGE>   9

       Some of these companies may have significant name recognition, as well as
       substantially greater capital resources, marketing experience, research
       and development staffs and production facilities than the Company.
       Although the Company believes it has a technological advantage over
       existing competitors in the technical calculation and the data analysis
       software markets, maintaining that advantage will require continued
       investment by the Company in research and development. There can be no
       assurance that the Company will have sufficient resources to make such
       investment or that the Company will be able to make the technological
       advances necessary to maintain such competitive advantage.

Intellectual Property Rights and Licenses

       MathSoft's software is proprietary and the Company attempts to protect it
       with copyrights, trade secret laws and internal nondisclosure safeguards,
       as well as restrictions on copying, disclosure and transferability that
       are incorporated into its software license agreements. Generally, the
       Company's products are not physically copy-protected. In order to retain
       exclusive ownership rights to all software developed by MathSoft, the
       Company licenses all software and provides it in executable code only,
       with contractual restrictions on copying, disclosure and transferability.
       As is customary in the industry, MathSoft licenses its products to end
       users by use of a `shrink-wrap' license. The source code for all of the
       Company's products is protected as a trade secret and as unpublished
       copyrighted work. In addition, the Company has entered into nondisclosure
       and inventions agreements with each of its key employees. The Company has
       been granted two patents and is aggressively pursuing patent protection.
       However, in those areas where the Company has no patent protection,
       judicial enforcement of copyright laws may be uncertain.

       Prior to fiscal 1994, the Company licensed, on a worldwide basis, MAPLE V
       Symbolic Algebra Software jointly from the University of Waterloo,
       Waterloo Maple Software, Inc. and two authors in exchange for ongoing
       royalty payments. In fiscal 1994, the Company was granted a non-exclusive
       worldwide perpetual license for this technology for inclusion in Mathcad
       and other products in exchange for a fixed royalty payment.

       The Company is the exclusive, worldwide licensee (subject to certain
       prior license grants) until February 18, 2002 of Lucent Technologies Inc.
       for the "S" programming language. Under the license, the Company has the
       exclusive right to use, sublicense and support the "S" programming
       language from Lucent Technologies in exchange for royalties. Any
       modifications, enhancements, adaptations or derivations of the "S"
       programming language are the property of the Company. After February 18,
       2002, the Company, at its election, may extend this exclusive license for
       five year terms in perpetuity, provided that the Company continues to
       comply with its obligations under the license. Although termination of
       this license could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
       operations as Lucent Technologies is the sole licensor of the "S"
       programming language, the Company is not presently aware of any
       circumstances which would prevent it from fulfilling its obligations
       under the license.

       Due to the rapid pace of technological change in the software industry,
       the Company believes that patent, trade secret and copyright protection
       are less significant to its competitive position than factors such as the
       knowledge, ability and experience of the Company's personnel, new product
       development, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and ongoing
       reliable product maintenance and support.

       The Company believes that its products and other proprietary rights do
       not infringe the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no
       assurance, however, that third parties will not assert infringement
       claims in the future.

Employees

       As of June 30, 1997, the Company employed approximately 160 regular
       full-time and part-time employees, of which 15 were outside the United
       States. As necessary, the Company supplements its regular employees with
       temporary and contract personnel. As of June 30, 1997, the Company
       employed 8 temporary and contract personnel, of which 1 was outside the
       United States. None of the Company's regular employees are represented by


                                       9

<PAGE>   10



       a labor union or are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. The
       Company has never experienced a work stoppage and believes that its
       employee relations are good.

Cautionary Statements

       In addition to the other information in this report, the following
       cautionary statements should be considered carefully in evaluating the
       Company and its business. Information provided by the Company from time
       to time may contain certain "forward-looking" information, as that term
       is defined by (i) the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
       (the "Act") and (ii) in releases made by the Securities and Exchange
       Commission (the "SEC"). These cautionary statements are being made
       pursuant to the provisions of the Act and with the intention of obtaining
       the benefits of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Act.

       Variability of Quarterly Operating Results. The Company's quarterly
       operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter,
       depending upon factors such as the introduction and market acceptance of
       new products and new versions of existing products, the ability to reduce
       expenses, and the activities of competitors. Because a high percentage of
       the Company's expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, minor
       variations in the timing of orders and shipments can cause significant
       variations in quarterly operating results. The Company operates with
       little or no backlog and has no long-term contracts, and substantially
       all of its product revenues in each quarter result from software licenses
       issued in that quarter, and the Company's ability to accurately forecast
       future revenues and income for any period is necessarily limited. Any
       forward-looking information provided from time to time by the Company
       represents only management's then-best current estimate of future results
       or trends, and actual results may differ materially from those contained
       in the Company's estimates.

       Potential Volatility of Stock Price. There has been significant
       volatility in the market price of securities of technology companies. The
       Company believes factors such as announcements of new products by the
       Company or its competitors, quarterly fluctuations in the Company's
       financial results or other software companies' financial results,
       shortfalls in the Company's actual financial results compared to results
       previously forecasted by stock market analysts, and general conditions in
       the software industry and conditions in the financial markets could cause
       the market price of the Common Stock to fluctuate substantially. These
       market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of the Company's
       Common Stock.

       Risks Associated with Acquisitions. The Company has made a number of
       acquisitions and will continue to review future acquisition
       opportunities. No assurances can be given that acquisition candidates
       will continue to be available on terms and conditions acceptable to the
       Company. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including, among other
       things, possible dilution to existing shareholders, difficulties and
       expenses incurred in connection with the acquisitions and the subsequent
       assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired
       companies, the difficulty of operating new (albeit related) businesses,
       the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and
       the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. In the event
       that the operations of an acquired business do not live up to
       expectations, the Company may be required to restructure the acquired
       business or write-off the value of some or all of the assets of the
       acquired business. There can be no assurance that any acquisition will be
       successfully integrated into the Company's operations.

       Risks Associated with Divestitures. The Company's product offerings 
       presently may be divided between two principal product families - those
       related to its Mathcad line addressing the calculation needs of the
       technical, professional and education markets, and its S-PLUS offerings,
       marketed primarily to professionals needing statistical data analysis
       tools.

       In setting strategic goals to maximize shareholder value, the Company
       from time to time considers the options of divesting itself of one
       product family or the other, or product lines within a given family,




                                       10
<PAGE>   11

       to concentrate its focus on the business opportunity associated with the
       remaining product family or product lines.

       At the present time, the Company is not party to any agreement relating
       to the sale of either of its product families or product lines within 
       such families, but it may elect to pursue such options at any time. If
       the Company were to consummate such a sale, there can be no assurance
       that it would receive returns from such sale that investors in the 
       Company would consider attractive.

       Risks Associated with Distribution Channels. The Company markets and
       distributes its S-PLUS products in the U.S. through the Company's
       telesales and outside sales force and internationally through third party
       resellers and distributors. Mathcad products are currently marketed and
       distributed in the U.S. through third party resellers and distributors,
       telesales and direct mail (for upgrades to the Company's installed base).
       Internationally, the Company's Mathcad products are marketed and
       distributed through third party resellers and distributors. There can be
       no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its current
       resellers and distributors, or expand its distribution channels by
       entering into arrangements with new resellers and distributors in the
       Company's current markets or in new markets.

       Risks Associated with International Operations. Sales outside North
       America accounted for approximately 36.1% of the Company's total revenues
       in fiscal 1995, approximately 32.5% of the Company's total revenues in
       fiscal 1996 and approximately 34.0% of the Company's total revenues in
       fiscal 1997, and may continue to represent a significant portion of the
       Company's product revenues. Any decrease in sales outside North America
       may have a materially adverse effect on the Company's operating results.
       The Company's international business and financial performance may be
       affected by fluctuations in exchange rates and by trade regulations.

       Reliance on Third Party Licensors. Maple V, a software product licensed
       as a part of the most recent version of Mathcad, contains certain
       copyrighted texts licensed from third party publishers incorporated in
       the Company's Electronic Books, and the S programming language, the
       language on which all of StatSci's products are based, are currently
       licensed from a single source or limited source suppliers. If such
       licenses are discontinued, there can be no assurance that the Company
       will be able to independently develop substitutes or to obtain
       alternative sources or, if able to be developed or obtained as needed in
       the future, that such efforts would not result in delays or reductions in
       product shipments or cost increases that could have a material adverse
       effect on the Company's consolidated business operations.

       Rapid Technological Change; Competition. The technical calculation
       software market is subject to rapid and substantial technological change,
       similar to that affecting the software industry generally. The Company,
       to remain successful, must be responsive to new developments in hardware
       and chip technology, operating systems, programming technology, Internet
       technology and multimedia capabilities. In addition, the Company competes
       against numerous other companies, some of which have significant name
       recognition, as well as substantially greater capital resources,
       marketing experience, research and development staffs and production
       facilities than the Company. The Company's financial results may be
       negatively impacted by the failure of new or existing products to be
       favorably received by retailers and consumers due to price, availability,
       features, other product choices or the necessity of promotions to
       increase sales of the Company's products.

       Uncertainties Regarding Protection of Proprietary Technology;
       Uncertainties Regarding Patents. The Company believes that while the
       mathematical calculations performed by the Company's software are not
       proprietary, the speed and quality of displaying the computation and the
       ease of use are unique to MathSoft's products. The Company's success will
       depend, in part, on its ability to protect the proprietary aspects of its
       products. The Company seeks to protect these proprietary aspects of its
       products principally through a combination of contract provisions and
       copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws. There can be no
       assurance that the steps taken by the Company to protect its proprietary
       rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of its technology.
       Although the Company believes that its products and technology do not
       infringe any existing proprietary rights of others, the use of patents to
       protect software has increased and there may be pending or issued patents
       of which the Company is not aware that the Company may need to license or
       challenge at significant expense. There can be no 



                                       11
<PAGE>   12

       assurance that any such license would be available on acceptable terms,
       if at all, or that the Company would prevail in any such challenge.

       Reliance on Attracting and Retaining Key Employees. The Company's
       continued success will depend in large part on its ability to attract and
       retain highly-qualified technical, managerial, sales and marketing and
       other personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. None of the
       senior management of the Company is subject to an employment contract,
       although the Company does have non-competition agreements with its key
       management and technical personnel. There can be no assurance that the
       Company will be able to continue to attract or retain such personnel.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.

       The Company leases 34,562 square feet of office space at 101 Main Street,
       Cambridge, Massachusetts of which 23,350 square feet is occupied by the
       Company and 11,212 square feet is sublet to a third party. The terms of
       both the lease and sublease for office space are scheduled to terminate
       in October, 1999. A third party vendor provides warehousing services to
       meet the Company's needs. The Company also leases 13,848 square feet of
       office space and subleases 4,423 square feet of office space at 1700
       Westlake Avenue North, Seattle, Washington. This lease expires in
       September, 1999 and the sublease expires in March, 2000. In connection
       with the acquisition of acroScience, the Company assumed a lease on 1,740
       square feet of office space in Boulder, Colorado which is scheduled to
       terminate in January 2000. The Company currently sublets this space to a
       third party, the term of which is scheduled to terminate in May 1998. The
       Company also leases 2,931 square feet of office space in the United
       Kingdom. The term of the lease for this office space is scheduled to
       expire in March, 2000.

       The Company believes that its facilities are adequate for its needs. The
       Company does not consider the specific location of its offices to be
       material to its business.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

       The Company is not involved in any legal proceedings which could have a
       material adverse effect on the Company.


ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY-HOLDERS.

       Not applicable.





                                       12
<PAGE>   13

                                     PART II



ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

       The information set forth under the caption "Market Price of Common
       Stock" appearing in the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders,
       which appears as Exhibit 13.01, is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

       The information set forth under the caption "Five Year Summary of
       Selected Consolidated Financial Data" appearing in the Company's 1997
       Annual Report to Stockholders, which appears as Exhibit 13.01, is
       incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS.

       The information set forth under the caption "Management's Discussion and
       Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" appearing in
       the Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders, which appears as
       Exhibit 13.01, is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

       The consolidated financial statements for the Company appearing in the
       Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders, which appears as 
       Exhibit 13.01, are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

       Not applicable.





                                       13
<PAGE>   14

                                    PART III



ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

       The information set forth under the captions "Occupations of Directors
       and Executive Officers" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership 
       Reporting Compliance" appearing in the Company's Proxy Statement for the
       1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

       The information set forth under the caption "Compensation and Other
       Information Concerning Directors and Officers" appearing in the Company's
       Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is
       incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

       The information set forth under the caption "Management and Principal
       Holders of Voting Securities" appearing in the Company's Proxy Statement
       for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by
       reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

       The information set forth under the caption "Certain Relationships and
       Related Transactions" appearing in the Company's Proxy Statement for the
       1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.





                                       14
<PAGE>   15


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

       (a)    The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

              1.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The following consolidated financial
              statements of the Company and Independent Auditors Report are
              incorporated in Item 8 of this report by reference to the
              Company's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders.

              Report of Independent Public Accountants.

              Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1997 and 1996.

              Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended June 30,
              1997, 1996 and 1995.

              Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years
              Ended June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended June 30,
              1997, 1996 and 1995.

              Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


              2.     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES. The following financial
              statement schedule is filed as part of this report and should be
              read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of
              the Company.

              Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

              All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or
              the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
              statements or notes thereto.


              3.     EXHIBITS.


              2.1    Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1993 among
                     the Registrant, Statistical Sciences, Inc., a Washington
                     corporation, and the Stockholders listed on Schedule I
                     thereto (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's Current
                     Report on Form 8-K dated June 30, 1993 and incorporated
                     herein by reference).

              3.1    Third Restated Articles of Organization of the Company
                     (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Registration Statement number
                     33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

              3.2    Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed as
                     Exhibit 3.2 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                     year ended June 30, 1994, file number 0-020992, and
                     incorporated herein by reference).

              4.1    Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock (filed
                     as Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on
                     Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

              4.2    Please refer to Article VI of Exhibit 3.1.

              10.1   Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1
                     to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and
                     incorporated herein by reference).

              10.2   1987 Combination Stock Plan, as amended (filed as Exhibit
                     10.2 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1
                     and incorporated herein by reference).

              10.3   Form of Key Officer Stock Option Agreement (filed as
                     Exhibit 10.3 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on
                     Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).



                                       15
<PAGE>   16
              10.4   1992 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to
                     Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and
                     incorporated herein by reference).

              10.5   1992 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (filed as
                     Exhibit 10.5 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on
                     Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

              10.6   Lease dated August 12, 1988, as amended to date, between
                     Registrant and Jonathan G. Davis, Trustee of the
                     Broadway/Hampshire Development Trust (filed as Exhibit 10.6
                     to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and
                     incorporated herein by reference).

              10.7   Third Party Software Distribution Agreement, dated January
                     30, 1989, as amended, between the Company, University of
                     Waterloo, Waterloo Maple Software, Inc. et al. (filed as
                     Exhibit 10.7 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on
                     Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

              10.8   Commitment Letter, dated August 28, 1992, between the
                     Company and Silicon Valley Bank (filed as Exhibit 10.8 to
                     Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and
                     incorporated herein by reference).

              10.9   Third Schedule to the Series C Preferred Stock Purchase
                     Agreement, dated as of June 29, 1989, among the Company and
                     the Investors named in the First Schedule Annexed Thereto,
                     regarding certain registration rights and related matters
                     (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to Registration Statement number
                     33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

              10.10  Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 18, 1987, between
                     the Company and Micro D, Inc., a predecessor to Ingram
                     Micro, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.10 to Registration
                     Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated
                     herein by reference).

              10.11  Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint Venture and
                     MathSoft, Inc., dated as of August 17, 1993 (filed as
                     Exhibit 10.11 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
                     year ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and
                     incorporated herein by reference).

              10.12  Lease Agreement with the Bartell Drug Co. (Landlord), dated
                     as of June 22, 1990, together with Addendum Nos. A, B, C &
                     D of even date and as amended by Addendum No. E dated
                     December 9, 1992 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Annual Report
                     on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993, file
                     number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).

              10.13  Software License Agreement with American Telephone &
                     Telegraph Company, effective as of April 1, 1991, as
                     amended February 18, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to Annual
                     Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
                     1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by
                     reference).*

              10.14  Distributor Agreement with Mathematical Systems Institute,
                     Inc., dated August 24, 1990 (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to
                     Annual Report of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June
                     30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by
                     reference).

              10.15  Distributorship Agreement dated as of March 1, 1994 between
                     the Company and 766884 Ontario Inc., carrying on business
                     as Waterloo Maple Software (filed as Exhibit 10.15 to
                     Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                     March 31, 1994, file number 0-020992, and incorporated
                     herein by reference).*

              10.16  Perpetual Technology License dated as of March 1, 1994, as
                     amended by Addendum No. 1 thereto dated as of March 25,
                     1994, between the Company and 766884 Ontario Inc., carrying
                     on business as Waterloo Maple Software (filed as Exhibit
                     10.16 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                     quarter ended March 31, 1994, file number 0-020992, and
                     incorporated herein by reference).*

              10.17  Line of Credit Agreement, dated January 11, 1996, between
                     the Company and Fleet Bank of Massachusetts (filed as
                     Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                     fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1996, file number 0-020992,
                     and incorporated herein by reference).

              10.18  Consulting Agreement dated March 26, 1996 between the
                     Company and Allen M. Razdow (filed as Exhibit 10.18 to
                     Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June
                     30, 1996, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by
                     reference).



                                       16
<PAGE>   17
             10.19  Software License Agreement, dated February 18, 1996,
                    between the Company and Lucent Technologies Inc. (filed as
                    Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    fiscal quarter ended December 31, 1996, file number
                    0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).*

             10.20  Amendment to Software License Agreement, dated September 25,
                    1997, between the Company and Lucent Technologies Inc.+

             11.1   Statement Regarding Computation of Per Share Earnings.

             13.01  1997 Annual Report to Stockholders.

             21.1   Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

             23.1   Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

             27.1   Financial Data Schedule.

             * Confidential treatment as to portions of the filed exhibit was
               previously granted.

             + Confidential treatment requested as to certain portions.

(b)    Reports on Form 8-K.

             The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 
             1997 reporting fiscal 1997 third quarter results.






                                       17
<PAGE>   18

                                   SIGNATURES

       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                           MATHSOFT, INC.


September 29, 1997         By: /S/ CHARLES J. DIGATE
                               ------------------------------------------------
                                Charles J. Digate
                                Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


September 29, 1997                    /S/ RICHARD A. D'AMORE
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      Richard A. D'Amore
                                      Director


September 29, 1997                    /S/ CHARLES H. FEDERMAN
                                      -----------------------------------------
                                      Charles H. Federman
                                      Director


September 29, 1997                    /S/ ROBERT P. ORLANDO
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      Robert P. Orlando
                                      Vice President Finance and Administration,
                                      Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer 
                                      and Clerk


September 29, 1997                    /S/ JUNE L. ROKOFF
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      June L. Rokoff
                                      Director

September 29, 1997                    /S/ STEVEN R. VANA-PAXHIA
                                      ---------------------------------------
                                      Steven R. Vana-Paxhia
                                      Director









                                       18
<PAGE>   19



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX




EXHIBIT NO.   DESCRIPTION

2.1           Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1993
              among the Registrant, Statistical Sciences, Inc., a
              Washington corporation, and the Stockholders listed on
              Schedule I thereto (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the
              Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 30,
              1993 and incorporated herein by reference).

3.1           Third Restated Articles of Organization of the Company
              (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Registration Statement number
              33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
              reference).

3.2           Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed as
              Exhibit 3.2 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
              year ended June 30, 1994, file number 0-020992, and
              incorporated herein by reference).

4.1           Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock
              (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement number
              33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
              reference).

4.2           Please refer to Article VI of Exhibit 3.1.

10.1          Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan (filed as Exhibit
              10.1 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form
              S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.2          1987 Combination Stock Plan, as amended (filed as
              Exhibit 10.2 to Registration Statement number 33-55658
              on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.3          Form of Key Officer Stock Option Agreement (filed as
              Exhibit 10.3 to Registration Statement number 33-55658
              on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.4          1992 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.4
              to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1
              and incorporated herein by reference).

10.5          1992 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (filed as
              Exhibit 10.5 to Registration Statement number 33-55658
              on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.6          Lease dated August 12, 1988, as amended to date, between
              Registrant and Jonathan G. Davis, Trustee of the
              Broadway/Hampshire Development Trust (filed as Exhibit
              10.6 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form
              S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.7          Third Party Software Distribution Agreement, dated
              January 30, 1989, as amended, between the Company,
              University of Waterloo, Waterloo Maple Software, Inc. et
              al. (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to Registration Statement
              number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
              reference).

10.8          Commitment Letter, dated August 28, 1992, between the
              Company and Silicon Valley Bank (filed as Exhibit 10.8
              to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1
              and incorporated herein by reference).

10.9          Third Schedule to the Series C Preferred Stock Purchase
              Agreement, dated as of June 29, 1989, among the Company
              and the Investors named in the First Schedule Annexed
              Thereto, regarding certain registration rights and
              related matters (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to Registration
              Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated
              herein by reference).

10.10         Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 18, 1987,
              between the Company and Micro D, Inc., a predecessor to
              Ingram Micro, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.10 to
              Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and
              incorporated herein by reference).





                                       19
<PAGE>   20

EXHIBIT NO.   DESCRIPTION

10.11         Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint Venture and
              MathSoft, Inc., dated as of August 17, 1993 (filed as
              Exhibit 10.11 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              fiscal year ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992,
              and incorporated herein by reference).

10.12         Lease Agreement with the Bartell Drug Co. (Landlord),
              dated as of June 22, 1990, together with Addendum Nos.
              A, B, C & D of even date and as amended by Addendum No.
              E dated December 9, 1992 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated
              herein by reference).

10.13         Software License Agreement with American Telephone &
              Telegraph Company, effective as of April 1, 1991, as
              amended February 18, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated
              herein by reference).*

10.14         Distributor Agreement with Mathematical Systems
              Institute, Inc., dated August 24, 1990 (filed as Exhibit
              10.14 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
              ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and
              incorporated herein by reference).

10.15         Distributorship Agreement dated as of March 1, 1994
              between the Company and 766884 Ontario Inc., carrying on
              business as Waterloo Maple Software (filed as Exhibit
              10.15 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
              quarter ended March 31, 1994, file number 0-020992, and
              incorporated herein by reference).*

10.16         Perpetual Technology License dated as of March 1, 1994,
              as amended by Addendum No. 1 thereto dated as of March
              25, 1994, between the Company and 766884 Ontario Inc.,
              carrying on business as Waterloo Maple Software (filed
              as Exhibit 10.16 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
              the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1994, file number
              0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10.17         Line of Credit Agreement, dated January 11, 1996,
              between the Company and Fleet Bank of Massachusetts
              (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
              for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1996, file number
              0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.18         Consulting Agreement dated March 26, 1996 between the
              Company and Allen M. Razdow (filed as Exhibit 10.18 to
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              June 30, 1996, file number 0-020992, and incorporated
              herein by reference).

10.19         Software License Agreement, dated February 18, 1996,
              between the Company and Lucent Technologies Inc. (filed
              as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
              fiscal quarter ended December 31, 1996, file number
              0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10.20         Amendment to Software License Agreement, dated September 25, 1997,
              between the Company and Lucent Technologies Inc.+

11.1          Statement Regarding Computation of Per Share Earnings.

13.01         1997 Annual Report to Stockholders.

21.1          Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1          Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

27.1          Financial Data Schedule.


* Confidential treatment as to portions of the filed exhibit was previously
  granted.

+ Confidential treatment requested as to certain portions.



                                       20
<PAGE>   21







                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS



To MathSoft, Inc.:

We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, the
financial statements included in MathSoft, Inc. and subsidiaries' annual report
to stockholders incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and have issued our
report thereon dated August 1, 1997. Our audit was made for the purpose of
forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The schedule listed in
Item 14(a)(2) of the index is the responsibility of the Company's management and
is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements. This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states, in all
material respects, the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                                                  /S/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP




Boston, Massachusetts
August 1, 1997

<PAGE>   22

                                                                     SCHEDULE II


                    MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       BALANCE,       CHARGED TO    DEDUCTION       BALANCE,
                                                    BEGINNING OF      COSTS AND                      END OF
                                                       PERIOD         EXPENSES                       PERIOD

<S>                                                  <C>              <C>            <C>           <C>       

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30 1995:
    Allowance for doubtful accounts                  $  892,781       $  108,206     $490,665      $  510,322
    Allowance for sales returns                         300,106          519,091      282,555         536,642
                                                     ----------       ----------     --------      ----------

         Total reserve for accounts receivable       $1,192,887       $  627,297     $773,220      $1,046,964
                                                     ==========       ==========     ========      ==========

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1996:
    Allowance for doubtful accounts                  $  510,322       $   73,573     $207,161      $  376,734
    Allowance for sales returns                         536,642          348,549      486,247         398,944
                                                     ----------       ----------     --------      ----------

         Total reserve for accounts receivable       $1,046,964       $  422,122     $693,408      $  775,678
                                                     ==========       ==========     ========      ==========

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997:
    Allowance for doubtful accounts                  $  376,734       $   83,297     $ 49,206      $  410,825
    Allowance for sales returns                         398,944        1,306,858      396,771       1,309,031
                                                     ----------       ----------     --------      ----------

         Total reserve for accounts receivable       $  775,678       $1,390,155     $445,977      $1,719,856
                                                     ==========       ==========     ========      ==========

</TABLE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.20
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENT TO SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.20

[ ] indicates material that has been omitted and for which confidential
treatment has been requested. All such omitted material has been filed with the
Commission pursuant to Rule 24b-2


                                    AMENDMENT

THIS AMENDMENT is between the following Parties: LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC., a
Delaware corporation ("LUCENT"), having an office at 600 Mountain Avenue, Murray
Hill, New Jersey 07974, and STATISTICAL SCIENCES, INC., a Massachusetts
corporation ("LICENSEE"). Having an office at 1700 Westlake Avenue North, Suite
500, Seattle, Washington 98107. This Amendment is effective upon the date the
last of the Parties executes this Amendment.

WHEREAS the Parties entered into a Software License Agreement ("Agreement")
relating to LUCENT's S Software, and

WHEREAS the Parties wish to amend the Agreement.

THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:

1.   The following new provisions are added:

     3.02(i)   LUCENT agrees that LICENSEE may furnish CUSTOMER
               SOFTWARE to a customer for operation in a time-sharing or service
               bureau environment provided that such customer agrees to the
               provisions of Section 3.01(a)(i)(2-8).

     7.13      LUCENT Purchases

               LUCENT may, at its discretion and from time to time, desire to
               acquire CUSTOMER SOFTWARE. LICENSEE agrees that LUCENT may
               acquire CUSTOMER SOFTWARE from LICENSEE at a price structure that
               is at least as favorable as the price structure LICENSEE offers
               to any of its other customers, including the United States
               government, for such CUSTOMER SOFTWARE.

2.   Appendix A (Definitions) is modified to add the following definition:

     TYPE means a product, comprising CUSTOMER SOFTWARE, which is furnished by
     LICENSEE and which is identified by a name, symbol and/or other device so
     as to distinguish the product from other products furnished by LICENSEE.

3.   The provisions of Section 4.02 are deleted in their entirety and are
replaced with the following provisions:

- ----------
*Terms in capital letters shall have the meanings specified in the Definitions
Appendix of the Agreement or as defined in this Amendment.

<PAGE>   2

                        Confidential Treatment Requested

                                      -2-

     The Parties agree that if LICENSEE fails to fulfill its obligations under
     Section 4.01 that: (i) the agreement by LUCENT in Sections 2.01(a) and
     3.01(c) not to grant licenses and rights to third parties, with respect to
     the NEW SOFTWARE PRODUCT portion of SOFTWARE PRODUCT, is, at the sole
     discretion of LUCENT, revocable any time on or after [
                     ], but that all other rights, licenses and obligations
     shall continue, and (ii) the yearly fee due pursuant to Section 5.01 and
     specified in APPENDIX C - YEARLY FEE SCHEDULE (as amended below), shall be
     changed to [                                                             
         ] for the year [     ] and each year thereafter, and the sublicensing
     fee due pursuant to Section 5.02 and specified in APPENDIX D - SUBLICENSING
     FEE SCHEDULE, shall be reduced to [       ] for the years [    ] and
     thereafter.

4.   The provisions of Section 5.05(a) are amended as of the effective date of
this Amendment as follows:

     Within ninety (90) days after the end of each semiannual period ending on
     June 30th or December 31st, commencing with the semiannual period ending
     December 31, 1997, LICENSEE shall furnish to LUCENT a statement, in form
     acceptable to LUCENT and certified by an authorized representative of
     LICENSEE, identifying SUBLICENSING REVENUE and remitting fees due pursuant
     to Section 5.02.

     LICENSEE agrees to identify for each TYPE the SUBLICENSING REVENUE due to
     LUCENT and to identify whether such SUBLICENSING REVENUE is reported
     pursuant to Section (a), (b) or (c) of the definition of SUBLICENSING
     REVENUE.

     LICENSEE further agrees that such statement will include, for each TYPE:
     (i) the number of copies and price of each TYPE that were furnished by
     LICENSEE, its SUBSIDIARIES and DISTRIBUTORS to customers, (ii) the [ ] of
     MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS for each TYPE during such semiannual period.

     In the case where a MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT covers more than one TYPE, the 
     [                 ] of such a MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT shall be prorated among
     the TYPES covered based upon the [                  ] of the TYPES covered.

5.   The provisions of Section 6.01 are deleted and replaced with the following
     provisions:

     (a) Unless otherwise terminated, this Agreement shall be in effect for a
     term commencing on February 18, 1996 and continuing for a six (6) year
     period thereafter.

<PAGE>   3

                         Confidential Treatment Required

                                      -3-

     (b) If this Agreement is not otherwise terminated, at the end of such six
     (6) year period, this Agreement will be automatically extended for an
     additional five (5) year period unless LICENSEE notifies LUCENT more than
     thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of such six (6) year period that
     LICENSEE does not wish to extend this Agreement.

     (c) Thereafter, this Agreement will be automatically extended for
     subsequent five (5) year periods unless this Agreement is otherwise
     terminated or unless LICENSEE notifies LUCENT more than thirty (30) days
     prior to the expiration of this Agreement that LICENSEE does not wish to
     extend this Agreement.

6.   The provisions of Appendix C (Yearly Fee Schedule) of the Agreement are
     deleted and replaced with the following provisions:

      PAYMENT                       DUE DATE                      YEARLY FEE

        [











                                                                       ]



<PAGE>   4

                         Confidential Treatment Required

                                      -4-


7.   The provisions of Appendix D (Sublicensing Fee Schedule) of the Agreement
     are deleted and replaced with the following provisions:

YEAR (BEGINNING FEBRUARY 18)                             FEES

          [ ]                               [ ] of SUBLICENSING REVENUE
          [ ]                            [    ] of SUBLICENSING REVENUE
          [ ]                               [ ] of SUBLICENSING REVENUE
          [ ]                               [ ] of SUBLICENSING REVENUE
          [ ]                               [ ] of SUBLICENSING REVENUE
          [ ]                               [ ] of SUBLICENSING REVENUE
    [            ]                          [ ] of SUBLICENSING REVENUE



IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the Parties has caused this Amendment to be executed
in duplicate originals by its duly authorized representatives on the respective
dates entered below.

LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC.


    By: /s/ M.R. Greene
       ---------------------------------------
        M.R. Greene
        Vice President - Intellectual Property

    Date: 9/17/97
         -------------------------------------

STATISTICAL SCIENCES, INC.


    By: /s/ Charles J. Digate
       ---------------------------------------

    Title: President and CEO
          ------------------------------------

    Date:    9/25/97
         -------------------------------------

            THIS AMENDMENT DOES NOT BIND OR OBLIGATE EITHER PARTY IN
                 ANY MANNER UNLESS DULLY EXECUTED BY AUTHORIZED
                        REPRESENTATIVES OF BOTH PARTIES



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF PER SHARE EARNINGS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                    EXHIBIT 11.1







                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   SUPPLEMENTAL CALCULATION OF SHARES USED IN
                     DETERMINING NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                                      1997          1996          1995

<S>                                                <C>            <C>           <C>      
WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON STOCK OUTSTANDING          8,841,170      8,247,036     7,169,593

WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON STOCK EQUIVALENTS                 --      1,294,544            --
                                                   ---------      ---------     ---------

WEIGHTED NUMBER OF COMMON AND COMMON 
EQUIVALENT SHARES OUTSTANDING                      8,841,170      9,541,580     7,169,593
                                                   =========      =========     =========
</TABLE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.01
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>1997 ANNUAL REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                   EXHIBIT 13.01


                          MARKET PRICE OF COMMON STOCK



The Common Stock (Nasdaq: MATH) began trading publicly in the over-the-counter
market through the Nasdaq National Market on February 3, 1993. Prior to that
date, there was no public market for the Common Stock. On July 15, 1997, the
Company transferred the listing of its Common Stock to the Nasdaq Small Cap
Market. The following table presents quarterly information on the price range of
the Common Stock. This information indicates the high and low bid prices for the
Common Stock as reported by the Nasdaq National Market for the periods
indicated. These prices do not include retail markups, markdowns or commissions.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                     HIGH              LOW
                                                     ----              ---
       <S>                                          <C>               <C>

       FISCAL 1996:
       First Quarter                                 6 7/8             4 5/8
       Second Quarter                                6 7/8             4 7/8
       Third Quarter                                 6 7/8             4 7/8
       Fourth Quarter                                8 7/8             5 1/4

       FISCAL 1997:
       First Quarter                                 7 5/8             4 7/8
       Second Quarter                                5 3/8             3 1/4
       Third Quarter                                 5 1/8             2 3/4
       Fourth Quarter                                3 5/8             2 3/16

</TABLE>



As of September 3, 1997, the approximate number of stockholders of record of
Common Stock was approximately 214.

The Company has never paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock and does not
anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company
currently intends to retain future earnings to fund the development and growth
of its business.




<PAGE>   2
FIVE YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(in thousands, except per share data)                 1997           1996        1995          1994          1993(4)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                  <C>           <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>    
Total revenues                                       $17,678       $20,767      $15,883       $26,610       $25,649


Gross profit                                          13,732        16,766       11,819        20,113        20,933

Income (loss) from operations (1) (2) (3)             (4,394)          933       (3,635)       (7,296)       (6,330)

Net income (loss)                                     (4,300)        1,076       (3,553)       (7,146)       (6,260)

Net income (loss) per common and common
  equivalent share in 1997, 1996, 1995 and 1994;
  proforma net loss per common and common
  equivalent share in 1993                             (0.49)         0.11        (0.50)        (1.02)        (1.10)

Working capital                                          457         4,688          617         1,618        10,190

Total assets                                           8,786        11,899        8,103        13,378        20,162

Long-term obligations, less current portion              183             3           13            79           183

Redeemable convertible preferred stock                    --            --           --            --            --

Stockholders equity                                    2,168         6,759        2,624         5,800        12,611

</TABLE>


(1)  1995 amount includes a write-down of intangible assets of $1.662 million.
     See Note 1(xx) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(2)  1994 amount includes a restructuring charge of $2.38 million. See Note 2 of
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(3)  1993 amount reflects a charge to operations of $6.57 million for purchased
     research and development related to the StatSci acquisition. See note 4
     below.

(4)  On June 30, 1993, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and
     business of a software company, Statistical Sciences, Inc., a Washington
     corporation located in Seattle, Washington. The Company currently carries
     on this business through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Statistical Sciences,
     Inc., a Massachusetts corporation. The acquisition was accounted for as a
     purchase. The selected consolidated financial data disclosed herein include
     the effects of this purchase.


<PAGE>   3
          MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
                           AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.


As an aid to understanding the Company's operating results, the table below
indicates the percentage relationships of income and expense items included in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three years ended June 30,
1997 and the percentage changes in those items for the two years ended June 30,
1997.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                         Percentage of Total Revenues              Percentage Change
                                       ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                          1997          1996         1995        1997-96        1996-95
                                       ----------------------------------------------------------------  
<S>                                       <C>           <C>          <C>           <C>            <C>  

Revenues:
  Software licenses                       85.9%         87.4%        86.6%        -16.4%          32.0%
  Services and other                      14.1%         12.6%        13.4%         -4.3%          22.5%
                                       ----------------------------------------------------------------  
      Total revenues                     100.0%        100.0%       100.0%        -14.9%          30.7%


Cost of Revenues:
  Software licenses                       17.7%         14.7%        20.7%          2.0%          -6.8%
  Services and other                       4.6%          4.5%         4.9%        -12.4%          20.7%
                                       ----------------------------------------------------------------  
     Total cost of revenues               22.3%         19.3%        25.6%         -1.4%          -1.6%

     Gross profit                         77.7%         80.7%        74.4%        -18.1%          41.9%

Operating Expenses:
  Sales and marketing                     58.0%         46.8%        54.8%          5.5%          11.7%
  Research and development                29.1%         17.6%        19.3%         40.5%          19.6%
  General and administrative              15.5%         11.8%        12.8%         11.3%          20.9%
  Write-down of intangible assets          0.0%          0.0%        10.5%            *              *
                                       ----------------------------------------------------------------  

     Total operating expenses            102.5%         76.2%        97.3%         14.5%           2.5%

     Loss from operations                -24.9%          4.5%       -22.9%       -570.9%        -125.7%

Interest income (expense), net             0.8%          0.9%         0.5%        -27.7%         134.1%
                                       ----------------------------------------------------------------  

Loss before provision
  for income taxes                       -24.1%          5.4%       -22.4%       -478.2%        -131.7%

Provision for income taxes                 0.3%          0.2%         0.0%         -9.7%             *
                                       ----------------------------------------------------------------  

Net loss                                 -24.4%          5.2%       -22.5%       -499.7%        -130.3%
                                       ================================================================ 

</TABLE>


* Not meaningful.


Fiscal 1997 Compared to Fiscal 1996

     Total revenues decreased 14.9% from $20,767,000 in fiscal 1996 to
     $17,678,000 in fiscal 1997. The decrease in total revenues was primarily
     attributable to a worldwide decrease in both new license revenue and
     upgrade revenue generated by the Company's core product, Mathcad for
     Windows, and to a lesser extent, a decrease in sales of Electronic Books,
     which work with Mathcad, and a decrease in S-PLUS product line and services
     revenue. The decrease in total revenues was partially offset by revenue
     generated by the release of Mathcad 6.0 for Macintosh in November 1996,
     revenue generated by the StudyWorks! product line released in June 1996 and
     revenue generated from the Axum product line acquired in the second quarter
     of fiscal 1996.

<PAGE>   4
     Mathcad for Windows generated upgrade revenue of $4,287,000 in fiscal 1996
     compared to upgrade revenue of $1,388,000 in fiscal 1997, a decrease as a
     percentage of total revenues from 20.6% to 7.9%, respectively. Prior to the
     release of Mathcad 7 for Windows in June 1997, the Company's last
     significant upgrade, Mathcad 6.0 for Windows, was released approximately
     twenty-three months earlier in fiscal 1995, and its upgrade cycle therefore
     came to a close in fiscal 1997. Worldwide Mathcad for Windows non-upgrade
     revenue decreased 13.8% from $7,377,000 in fiscal 1996 to $6,359,000 in
     fiscal 1997 due primarily to the Company's distribution channel's
     anticipation of the delivery of the next major release of Mathcad for
     Windows, Mathcad 7 for Windows, and decreasing sell-through of the older
     Mathcad 6.0 for Windows release. Worldwide S-PLUS product line and services
     revenue decreased 8.7% from $5,904,000 in fiscal 1996 to $5,389,000 in
     fiscal 1997, and increased as a percentage of total revenues from 28.4% to
     30.5%, respectively. The decrease in S-PLUS product line and services
     revenue was attributable to a reduction in license revenue, due to a
     material shift from UNIX license sales to lower priced Windows license
     sales, and to the discontinuance of unprofitable S-PLUS services revenue.
     Moreover, the product line reached its fourth year of life without a major
     new release resulting in sluggish new license sales prior to the delivery
     of S-PLUS 4.0 in early fiscal 1998. Revenues attributable to the Axum
     product line acquired in the TriMetrix, Inc. acquisition accounted for
     $676,000, or 3.3% of total revenues, in fiscal 1996 compared to $1,023,000,
     or 5.8% of total revenues, in fiscal 1997. Total international revenues
     attributable to sales of all Company product lines decreased 10.9% from
     $6,756,000 in fiscal 1996 to $6,018,000 in fiscal 1997, and increased as a
     percentage of total revenues from 32.5% to 34.0%, respectively.

     Total cost of revenues decreased 1.4% from $4,000,000 in fiscal 1996 to
     $3,946,000 in fiscal 1997, and increased as a percentage of total revenues
     from 19.3% to 22.3%, respectively. The increase in total cost of revenues
     as a percentage of total revenues was primarily attributable to a reduction
     of inventory reserves in fiscal 1996 based on an evaluation of actual
     inventory exposure and reserve requirements. In contrast, the Company
     increased inventory reserves in fiscal 1997 to adequately cover inventory
     exposure in the sales distribution channel as the Company prepared to
     release its next major upgrade of Mathcad, Mathcad 7 for Windows. In
     addition, fixed licensing costs for the "S" language used in the S-PLUS 
     product line increased in fiscal 1997 per terms of the license agreement 
     and other fixed costs, such as the amortization of purchased technology, 
     increased as a percentage of total revenues by approximately 1.51% due to 
     an overall lower revenue base in fiscal 1997.



<PAGE>   5
     Sales and marketing expenses increased 5.5% from $9,719,000 in fiscal 1996
     to $10,251,000 in fiscal 1997, and increased as a percentage of total
     revenues from 46.8% to 58.0%, respectively. The increase in overall sales
     and marketing expenses was attributable to marketing expenses incurred
     related to the fiscal 1997 launch of the StudyWorks! product line, Mathcad
     6.0 for Macintosh and, most recently, Mathcad 7 for Windows, as well as to
     an increase in S-PLUS domestic sales expenses as the Company reorganized
     its sales infrastructure to support direct sales into this expanding
     product line. International sales and marketing expenses increased 3.8%
     from $2,285,000 in fiscal 1996 to $2,372,000 in fiscal 1997.

     Research and development expenses increased 40.6% from $3,659,000 in fiscal
     1996 to $5,143,000 in fiscal 1997, and increased as a percentage of total
     revenues from 17.6% to 29.1%. The increase in overall research and
     development expenses was primarily attributable to increased personnel and
     consulting costs associated with the continued expansion and development of
     the S-PLUS product line, specifically related to the first release of
     StatServer in April, 1997 and the impending release of S-PLUS 4.0 in early
     fiscal 1998.

     General and administrative expenses increased 11.3% from $2,455,000 in
     fiscal 1996 to $2,732,000 in fiscal 1997 and increased as a percentage of
     total revenues from 11.8% to 15.5%, respectively. The increase in overall
     general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to
     fluctuations in international exchange rate transactions. The Company
     recorded exchange rate losses of $12,000 in fiscal 1996 compared to
     exchange rate losses of $257,000 in fiscal 1997.

     Net loss for fiscal 1997 was $4,300,000 compared to net income of
     $1,076,000 in fiscal 1996. Fiscal 1997 reflected a year of investment for
     the Company as evidenced by its commitment to strategic development
     initiatives, most notably in the Company's Data Analysis Products Division.
     The release of new products with new product cycles will support renewed
     growth in both the Mathcad and S-PLUS product lines.


Fiscal 1996 Compared to Fiscal 1995

     Total revenues increased 30.7% from $15,883,000 in fiscal 1995 to
     $20,767,000 in fiscal 1996. The increase in total revenues was primarily
     attributable to an increase in worldwide Mathcad product line licenses, an
     increase in worldwide S-PLUS product line and services revenue and revenue
     generated from the Axum product line acquired in the second quarter of
     fiscal 1996. The release of Mathcad 6.0 in July 1995 supported a 129%
     worldwide increase in Mathcad upgrade revenue from $1,873,000 in fiscal
     1995 to $4,287,000 in fiscal 1996. Mathcad upgrade revenue also increased
     as a percentage of total revenues from 11.8% in fiscal 1995 to 20.6% in
     fiscal 1996. The Company's last significant upgrade, Mathcad 5.0, was
     released approximately eighteen months earlier in fiscal 1994, and its
     upgrade cycle therefore came to a close in fiscal 1995. Worldwide Mathcad
     non-upgrade product line sales increased 18.3% from $6,236,000 in fiscal
     1995 to $7,377,000 in fiscal 1996 and worldwide S-PLUS product line and
     services revenue 



<PAGE>   6

     increased 10.9% from $5,324,000 in fiscal 1995 to $5,904,000 in fiscal
     1996. The increase in worldwide non-upgrade Mathcad revenue was due
     primarily to the Company's focus throughout fiscal 1996 on a generating new
     license Mathcad sales by an increased penetration into the education market
     and renewed growth in the commercial markets. Total international revenues
     increased 17.7% from $5,739,000 in fiscal 1995 to $6,756,000 in fiscal
     1996, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 36.1% to 32.5%,
     respectively. The increase in total international revenues was due to
     Mathcad upgrade revenues generated by the release of Mathcad 6.0, in
     addition to global distribution expansion efforts in both the commercial
     and education markets. Revenues attributable to the Axum product line
     acquired in the TriMetrix, Inc. acquisition accounted for $676,000, or 3.3%
     of total revenues, in fiscal 1996. Gains and losses from foreign currency
     transactions in fiscal 1996 were not significant.

     Total cost of revenues decreased 1.6 % from $4,064,000 in fiscal 1995 to
     $4,000,000 in fiscal 1996, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues
     from 25.6% to 19.3%, respectively. The decrease in total cost of revenues
     as a percentage of total revenues was primarily attributable to the
     allocation of fixed costs, such as royalties and the amortization of
     purchased technology, over a higher revenue base for the year. In addition,
     amortization of product development costs accounted for $489,000 of total
     cost of revenues, or 3.1% of total revenues, in fiscal 1995. There was no
     amortization of product development costs in fiscal 1996 as amounts were
     fully amortized.

     Sales and marketing expenses increased 11.7% from $8,703,000 in fiscal 1995
     to $9,719,000 in fiscal 1996, and decreased as a percentage of total
     revenues from 54.8% to 46.8%, respectively. The increase in overall sales
     and marketing expenses was primarily attributable to more aggressive
     advertising and channel promotional activities and additional headcount and
     related costs in both the domestic sales and marketing functions. These
     increases were partially offset by a reduction in direct mail marketing
     activities to prospective customers. International marketing expenses
     decreased from $2,168,000 in fiscal 1995 to $1,661,000 in fiscal 1996 due
     primarily to a discontinuance of direct mail marketing activity to
     prospective customers and reduced installed base direct mail marketing
     activity.

     Research and development expenses increased 19.6% from $3,059,000 in fiscal
     1995 to $3,659,000 in fiscal 1996, and decreased as a percentage of total
     revenues from 19.2% to 17.6%. The increase in overall research and
     development expenses was primarily due to the addition of personnel from
     the TriMetrix, Inc. acquisition as well as expenses incurred related to
     product localization for international markets and S-PLUS development
     efforts.

     General and administrative expenses increased 20.9% from $2,030,000 in
     fiscal 1995 to $2,455,000 in fiscal 1996 and decreased as a percentage of
     total revenues from 12.8% to 11.8%, respectively. The increase in overall
     general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to costs
     incurred to attract and retain key management personnel in both the
     Company's Cambridge headquarters and Seattle operation including the
     addition of a new General Manager for the Company's Data Analysis Products
     Division in the third quarter of fiscal 1996.

     Net income for fiscal 1996 was $1,076,000 compared to a net loss of
     $1,891,000 in fiscal 1995, excluding the $1,662,000 non-cash charge for the
     revaluation of certain intangible assets. The release of Mathcad 6.0 in
     July 1995 and expansion of global distribution channels supported worldwide
     growth in both the Mathcad and S-PLUS product lines. In addition, the
     Company's renewed commitment to the education market in fiscal 1996
     resulted in increased penetration for both existing product lines and new
     product lines, such as StudyWorks released in June 1996.


<PAGE>   7

Liquidity and Capital Resources

     Cash and cash equivalents totaling $2,802,000 at June 30, 1997, decreased
     $2,152,000 during fiscal 1997 from 4,954,000 at June 30, 1996. The negative
     cash flow resulted primarily from cash used in operating activities and
     purchases of property and equipment, offset by proceeds generated from
     capital lease equipment financing and the exercise of stock options.

     The Company used $2,038,000 in operating activities in fiscal 1997 compared
     to cash used in operations of $1,296,000 in fiscal 1996, an increase of
     $742,000. The use of cash in operating activities was primarily
     attributable to a net loss of approximately $4,300,000 and, to a lesser
     extent, to an increase in prepaid expenses and a decrease in accrued
     expenses. Prepaid expenses increased proportionally with increases in
     licensing royalties payable for the "S" language used in the S-PLUS product
     line and increases in Directors and Officers insurance coverage purchased
     by the Company in fiscal 1997, the expenses of which are recognized ratably
     over the period covered by the related agreements. Accrued expenses
     decreased from fiscal 1996 levels due to the settlement of liabilities
     associated with the acquisition of acroScience Corporation. These uses of
     cash were partially offset by non-cash depreciation and amortization
     charges, decreases in accounts receivable and inventory costs and increases
     in accounts payable. Accounts receivable decreased due to an overall
     decline in Mathcad product sold into the Company's distribution channel and
     timing of new product releases, such as StudyWorks! in late June 1996,
     which accelerated both receivables and inventory levels in fiscal 1996
     relative to fiscal 1997. Inventory levels in the Company's Data Analysis
     Products Division also decreased throughout fiscal 1997 as the Company
     minimized stocking levels of S-PLUS in anticipation of the release of
     S-PLUS 4.0 in the first quarter of fiscal 1998. Accounts payable increased
     due to timing of liabilities and management's cash planning and forecasting
     efforts. During fiscal 1997, the Company purchased $780,000 of property and
     equipment, compared to $1,059,000 in fiscal 1996. Proceeds generated from
     capital lease equipment financing totaled $565,000 in fiscal 1997. The
     Company did not enter into any capital lease equipment financing
     transactions in fiscal 1996. In addition, proceeds from the exercise of
     stock options and warrants totaled approximately $377,000 in fiscal 1997
     compared to $587,000 in fiscal 1996.

     The Company's financial reserves are represented by cash and cash
     equivalents as of June 30, 1997. The Company has a line of credit agreement
     with a commercial bank. Borrowings under the line are limited to the lesser
     of 65% of eligible domestic accounts or $500,000 to $1,000,000 based on
     certain profitability covenants. Borrowings are secured by a first security
     interest on substantially all of the Company's assets and bear interest at
     the bank's prime rate plus 1%. The line of credit contains certain
     restrictive covenants, including minimum amounts of profitability, equity,
     leverage and liquidity, all as defined in the agreement, and expires on
     December 31,1998. There were no amounts outstanding under this line at June
     30, 1997.

     The Company believes its financial reserves and cash flows from future
     operations will be sufficient to meet its liquidity requirements for at
     least the next twelve months. The foregoing statement is forward-looking
     and involves risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside the
     Company's control. The Company's actual experience may differ materially


<PAGE>   8

     from that discussed above. Factors that might cause such a difference
     include, but are not limited to, those discussed in "Cautionary Statements"
     of the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 as well
     as future events that have the effect of reducing the Company's available
     cash balances, such as unanticipated operating losses or capital
     expenditures or cash expenditures related to possible future acquisitions.
     The Company may be presented from time to time with acquisition
     opportunities which require additional external financing, and the Company
     may from time to time seek to obtain additional funds from public or
     private issuances of equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance
     that any such financing will be available at all or on terms favorable to
     the Company.

     In addition to the other information in this report, the cautionary
     statements discussed in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
     June 30, 1997 should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and
     its business. Information provided by the Company from time to time may
     contain certain "forward-looking" information, as that term is defined by
     (i) the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act") and
     (ii) in releases made by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
     "SEC"). These cautionary statements are being made pursuant to the
     provisions of the Act and with the intention of obtaining the benefits of
     the "safe harbor" provisions of the Act.




<PAGE>   9


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS



To MathSoft, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of MathSoft, Inc.
(a Massachusetts corporation) and subsidiaries as of June 30, 1997 and 1996, and
the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 1997. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of MathSoft, Inc. and subsidiaries
as of June 30, 1997 and 1996, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 1997, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.



                                                   /s/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP




Boston, Massachusetts
August  1, 1997



<PAGE>   10


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     ASSETS
                                                                          JUNE 30,
                                                                 --------------------------
                                                                     1997          1996
<S>                                                              <C>            <C>        

CURRENT ASSETS:
    Cash and cash equivalents                                    $2,802,389     $ 4,954,416
    Accounts and other receivables, less reserves 
       of approximately $1,720,000 and $776,000 at 
       June 30, 1997 and 1996, respectively                       3,237,812       3,881,568
    Inventories                                                     343,785         547,892
    Prepaid expenses                                                475,525         381,638
                                                                 ----------     -----------

               Total current assets                               6,859,511       9,765,514
                                                                 ----------     -----------

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, AT COST:
    Computer equipment and software                               4,396,927       4,052,662
    Property and equipment under capital lease                      427,898              --
    Furniture and fixtures                                          989,520         968,644
    Leasehold improvements                                          626,889         621,354
                                                                 ----------     -----------
                                                                  6,441,234       5,642,660

    Less--Accumulated depreciation and amortization               4,888,216       4,044,072
                                                                 ----------     -----------
                                                                  1,553,018       1,598,588
                                                                 ----------     -----------
OTHER ASSETS:
    Purchased technology, net of accumulated 
       amortization of approximately $2,722,000 and 
       $2,505,000 at June 30, 1997 and 1996,                        
       respectively                                                 287,253         504,006 
    Other assets                                                     86,661          31,044
                                                                 ----------     -----------
                                                                    373,914         535,050
                                                                 ----------     -----------

                                                                 $8,786,443     $11,899,152
                                                                 ==========     ===========
</TABLE>

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.



<PAGE>   11


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                   (Continued)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                                                          JUNE 30,
                                                              -----------------------------
                                                                   1997            1996
<S>                                                           <C>              <C>         

CURRENT LIABILITIES:
    Current portion of capital lease obligations              $    319,690     $     16,753
    Accounts payable                                             2,036,745        1,699,414
    Accrued expenses                                             2,592,532        2,255,214
    Accrued restructuring, current portion                          10,539           13,316
    Deferred revenue                                             1,443,244        1,092,541
                                                              ------------     ------------

          Total current liabilities                              6,402,750        5,077,238
                                                              ------------     ------------

ACCRUED RESTRUCTURING, LESS CURRENT PORTION                         13,613           24,152
                                                              ------------     ------------

CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS, LESS CURRENT PORTION                    182,619            2,694
                                                              ------------     ------------

ACCRUED RENT, LESS CURRENT PORTION                                  19,335           36,372
                                                              ------------     ------------

COMMITMENTS (Note 4)

STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY:
    Preferred stock, $.01 par value-
        Authorized--1,000,000 shares
        Issued and outstanding--none                                    --               --
    Common stock, $.01 par value-
        Authorized--20,000,000 shares
        Issued and outstanding--9,006,376 shares and 
          8,579,262 shares at June 30, 1997 and 1996, 
          respectively                                              90,064           85,793
    Additional paid-in capital                                  29,161,835       28,158,558
    Accumulated deficit                                        (26,992,109)     (21,474,509)
    Cumulative translation adjustment                              (91,664)         (11,146)
                                                              ------------     ------------

          Total stockholders' equity                             2,168,126        6,758,696
                                                              ------------     ------------

                                                              $  8,786,443     $ 11,899,152
                                                              ============     ============
</TABLE>


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.



<PAGE>   12


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,
                                                 ------------------------------------------- 
                                                     1997            1996           1995

<S>                                              <C>             <C>             <C>        

REVENUES:
    Software licenses                            $15,179,191     $18,155,650     $13,751,456
    Services and other                             2,498,536       2,611,048       2,131,770
                                                 -----------     -----------     -----------

        Total revenues                            17,677,727      20,766,698      15,883,226
                                                 -----------     -----------     -----------

COST OF REVENUES:
    Software licenses                              3,124,158       3,061,762       3,286,577
    Services and other                               821,781         938,596         777,664
                                                 -----------     -----------     -----------

        Total cost of revenues                     3,945,939       4,000,358       4,064,241
                                                 -----------     -----------     -----------

        Gross profit                              13,731,788      16,766,340      11,818,985
                                                 -----------     -----------     -----------

OPERATING EXPENSES:
    Sales and marketing                           10,251,376       9,719,346       8,703,130
    Research and development                       5,142,751       3,659,171       3,058,788
    General and administrative                     2,731,858       2,454,838       2,030,296
    Write-down of intangible assets                       --              --       1,662,000
                                                 -----------     -----------     -----------

        Total operating expenses                  18,125,985      15,833,355      15,454,214
                                                 -----------     -----------     -----------

        Income (loss) from operations             (4,394,197)        932,985      (3,635,229)

INTEREST INCOME                                      153,111         199,049         108,372

INTEREST EXPENSE                                     (14,440)         (7,196)        (26,427)
                                                 -----------     -----------     -----------

        Income (loss) before provision 
          for income taxes                        (4,255,526)      1,124,838      (3,553,284)

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES                            44,452          49,000              --
                                                 -----------     -----------     -----------

        Net income (loss)                        $(4,299,978)    $ 1,075,838     $(3,553,284)
                                                 ===========     ===========     ===========

NET INCOME (LOSS) PER COMMON AND 
  COMMON EQUIVALENT SHARE                        $      (.49)    $       .11     $      (.50)
                                                 ===========     ===========     ===========

WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF COMMON AND 
  COMMON EQUIVALENT SHARES OUTSTANDING             8,841,170       9,541,580       7,169,593
                                                 ===========     ===========     ===========

</TABLE>


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.






<PAGE>   13




                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                               
                                                                                             
                                                                COMMON STOCK    ADDITIONAL   ACCUMULATED  CUMULATIVE       TOTAL  
                                                          NUMBER OF   $.01 PAR   PAID-IN       DEFICIT    TRANSLATION  STOCKHOLDERS'
                                                           SHARES       VALUE    CAPITAL                  ADJUSTMENT      EQUITY
                                                                                                          
<S>                                                       <C>         <C>      <C>          <C>            <C>         <C>        
BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1994                                    7,091,389   $70,914  $24,217,450  $(18,510,247)  $ 21,787    $ 5,799,904
 Exercise of stock options, warrants and Employee Stock                                                   
  Purchase Plan                                             181,759     1,817      210,832            --         --        212,649
 Compensation associated with issuance of stock options          --        --      150,000            --         --        150,000
 Net loss                                                        --        --           --    (3,553,284)        --     (3,553,284)
 Translation adjustment                                          --        --           --            --     14,332         14,332
                                                          ---------   -------  -----------  ------------   --------    -----------
                                                                                                          
BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1995                                    7,273,148    72,731   24,578,282   (22,063,531)    36,119      2,623,601
 Acquisition of TriMetrix, Inc.                             219,997     2,200       63,700      (486,816)        --       (420,916)
 Sale of common stock                                       750,000     7,500    2,932,963            --         --      2,940,463
 Exercise of stock options, warrants and Employee Stock                                                   
  Purchase Plan                                             336,117     3,362      583,613            --         --        586,975
 Net income                                                      --        --           --     1,075,838         --      1,075,838
 Translation adjustment                                          --        --           --            --    (47,265)       (47,265)
                                                          ---------   -------  -----------  ------------   --------    -----------
                                                                                                          
BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1996                                    8,579,262    85,793   28,158,558   (21,474,509)   (11,146)     6,758,696
 Acquisition of acroScience Corporation                     250,000     2,500      618,500    (1,217,622)        --       (596,622)
 Exercise of stock options and Employee Stock Purchase                                                    
  Plan                                                      177,114     1,771      374,777            --         --        376,548
 Compensation associated with issuance of stock options          --        --       10,000            --         --         10,000
 Net loss                                                        --        --           --    (4,299,978)        --     (4,299,978)
 Translation adjustment                                          --        --           --            --    (80,518)       (80,518)
                                                          ---------   -------  -----------  ------------   --------    -----------
                                                                                                          
BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1997                                    9,006,376   $90,064  $29,161,835  $(26,992,109)  $(91,664)   $ 2,168,126
                                                          =========   =======  ===========  ============   ========    ===========
                                                                                                         
</TABLE>

                                                                             
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.




<PAGE>   14



                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                        YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,
                                                                         -----------------------------------------------
                                                                              1997             1996              1995
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
<S>                                                                      <C>               <C>               <C>         
 Net income (loss)                                                       $(4,299,978)      $ 1,075,838       $(3,553,284)
 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by
 (used in) operating activities, net of acquisitions-
   Depreciation and amortization                                           1,063,503         1,043,052         1,624,761
   Compensation associated with issuance of options                           10,000                --           150,000
   Write-down of intangible assets                                                --                --         1,662,000
   Changes in assets and liabilities-
    Accounts and other receivables                                           643,756        (2,301,420)        1,790,517
    Inventories                                                              210,946          (247,446)          500,760
    Prepaid expenses                                                         (93,886)         (172,936)          711,831
    Accounts payable                                                         329,822           136,252          (260,135)
    Accrued expenses                                                        (252,499)         (754,768)       (2,043,772)
    Deferred revenue                                                         350,702           (74,285)          161,112
                                                                         -----------       -----------       -----------

      Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities                 (2,037,634)       (1,295,713)          743,790
                                                                         -----------       -----------       -----------

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
 Decrease in short-term investments                                               --           448,618           629,888
 Purchases of property and equipment                                        (780,171)       (1,059,263)         (285,572)
 Decrease (increase) in other assets                                         (56,374)           15,688            17,355
 Cash acquired from the acroScience and TriMetrix acquisitions                 9,691            27,849                --
                                                                         -----------       -----------       -----------

      Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities                   (826,854)         (567,108)          361,671
                                                                         -----------       -----------       -----------

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
 Payments on long-term debt                                                  (16,000)          (73,188)          (94,066)
 Payments on capital lease obligations                                      (132,975)          (76,077)         (161,698)
 Borrowings on capital lease obligations                                     565,406                --                --
 Proceeds from exercise of stock options, warrants and Employee
  Stock Purchase Plan                                                        376,548           586,975           212,649
 Net proceeds from sale of common stock                                           --         2,940,463                --
                                                                         -----------       -----------       -----------

      Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                    792,979         3,378,173           (43,115)
                                                                         -----------       -----------       -----------

EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS                 (80,518)          (47,265)           14,332
                                                                         -----------       -----------       -----------

NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS                       2,152,027)        1,468,087         1,076,678

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF YEAR                               4,954,416         3,486,329         2,409,651
                                                                         -----------       -----------       -----------

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR                                   $ 2,802,389       $ 4,954,416       $ 3,486,329
                                                                         ===========       ===========       ===========

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:
 Cash paid during the year for-
   Interest                                                              $    14,439       $     5,519       $    26,426
                                                                         ===========       ===========       ===========
   Income taxes                                                          $     7,530       $    49,220       $    34,069
                                                                         ===========       ===========       ===========

</TABLE>




SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NONCASH INVESTING AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES: The
 Company financed $63,333 of equipment through long-term debt and capital leases
 in fiscal 1997.

 In November 1995, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of
 TriMetrix, Inc. in exchange for 219,997 shares of common stock of the Company.
 This acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of interests.

 In November 1996, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of
 acroScience Corporation in exchange for 250,000 shares of common stock of the
 Company. This acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of interests.


  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
  statements.


<PAGE>   15





                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997


(1)  OPERATIONS AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     MathSoft, Inc. (MathSoft) was incorporated on October 12, 1984. MathSoft
     develops, markets and supports software productivity tools for the
     technical calculation and data analysis markets comprised of professionals,
     students and educators (see Note 10).

     The accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect the application
     of certain accounting policies as described in this note and elsewhere in
     the consolidated financial statements and notes.

     (a)  Basis of Presentation

          The accompanying consolidated financial statements comprise those of
          MathSoft and its wholly owned subsidiaries Statistical Sciences, Inc.
          (StatSci), TriMetrix, Inc. and acroScience Corporation (collectively
          referred to as the Company). All material intercompany accounts and
          transactions have been eliminated.

     (b)  Revenue Recognition

          The Company derives substantially all of its revenue from technical
          calculation and data analysis software products for use on desktop
          computers. Revenue from the licensing of software products is
          recognized when the products are shipped, as there are no significant
          post-delivery obligations, and the Company provides for estimated
          returns and warranty costs at the time of sale. The Company offers
          maintenance contracts and training on its data analysis software
          products. Maintenance and training revenues are recognized ratably
          over the term of the related contracts. Amounts received in advance
          for maintenance agreements are recorded as deferred revenue on the
          accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

     (c)  Cash and Cash Equivalents

          Cash and cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates
          market, and consist of short-term, highly liquid investments with
          original maturities of less than three months.

     (d)  Inventories

          Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or
          market and consist of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  JUNE 30,
                                           ----------------------
                                             1997          1996
          <S>                              <C>           <C>         
          Materials and supplies           $ 41,648      $162,627
          Finished goods                    302,137       385,265
                                           --------      --------
                                           $343,785      $547,892
                                           ========      ========
</TABLE>   

<PAGE>   16



                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997

                                   (Continued)


     (e)  Depreciation and Amortization

          The Company provides for depreciation and amortization by charges to
          operations on a straight-line basis, in amounts estimated to recover
          the cost of the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                             ASSET CLASSIFICATION              USEFUL LIVES 

                       <S>                                    <C>    
                       Computer equipment and software           3 years
                       Furniture and fixtures                   3-5 years
                       Leasehold improvements                 Life of lease
</TABLE>

          Property and equipment under capital leases are amortized over the
          shorter of the estimated useful life of three to five years or the
          term of the lease.

     (f)  Product Development Costs

          The Company capitalizes product development costs subsequent to the
          establishment of technological and commercial feasibility, until the
          product is available for general release. Costs incurred prior to the
          establishment of technological feasibility are charged to research and
          development expense. Development costs associated with product
          enhancements that extend the original product's life or significantly
          improve the original product's marketability are also capitalized upon
          technological feasibility. Amortization of product development costs
          begins the month after the general release over the shorter of the
          estimated useful life of the product or fifteen months.

          No costs were capitalized for the years ended June 30, 1997 or 1996,
          as costs incurred from technological feasibility to general release
          were immaterial. Amortization of product development costs of $488,964
          for the year ended June 30, 1995, has been included in cost of
          revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

     (g)  Net Income (Loss) per Common and Common Equivalent Share

          For the years ended June 30, 1997 and 1995, net loss per share was
          computed using the weighted average number of shares of common stock
          outstanding during the respective years. Common stock equivalents have
          not been included, as their effect would have been antidilutive.



<PAGE>   17


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997

                                   (Continued)


          For the year ended June 30, 1996, net income per common and common
          equivalent share is based on the weighted average number of shares of
          common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during the year,
          computed in accordance with the treasury stock method. Fully diluted
          earnings per share have not been presented, as the amounts would not
          differ significantly from primary earnings per share.

     (h)  Postretirement Benefits

          The Company has no obligations for postretirement benefits.

     (i)  Foreign Currency Translation

          Assets and liabilities of the Company's foreign branch are translated
          to U.S. dollars using the exchange rate at each balance sheet date.
          Income and expense accounts are translated using an average rate of
          exchange during the period. Foreign currency translation adjustments
          are accumulated as a separate component of stockholders' equity. The
          effect of aggregate transaction gains and losses were approximately
          $(257,000), $(12,000) and $38,000 in 1997, 1996 and 1995,
          respectively.

     (j)  Other Assets

          In fiscal 1997, the Company implemented Statement of Financial
          Accounts Standards (SFAS) No. 121, Accounting for Impairment of
          Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets To Be Disposed Of. This
          standard establishes accounting standards for long-lived assets and
          certain identifiable intangibles to be disposed of. The effect of
          adopting SFAS No 121 was immaterial.

     (k)  Concentration of Credit Risk

          SFAS No. 105, Disclosure of Information About Financial Instruments
          with Off-Balance-Sheet Risk and Financial Instruments with
          Concentrations of Credit Risk, requires disclosure of any significant
          off-balance-sheet and credit risk concentrations. The Company's
          financial instruments that subject the Company to credit risk consist
          primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. The
          Company maintains the majority of its cash balances with one financial
          institution. The Company's accounts receivable are not concentrated
          within a specific geographic area; however, one single customer
          represents a credit risk to the Company (see Note 8).




<PAGE>   18


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997

                                   (Continued)

     (l)  New Accounting Standards

          In March 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
          SFAS No. 128, Earnings per Share. SFAS No. 128 establishes standards
          for computing and presenting earnings per share and applies to
          entities with publicly held common stock or potential common stock.
          This statement is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15,
          1997 and early adoption is not permitted. When adopted, the statement
          will require restatement of prior years' reported per share amounts.
          The Company will adopt this statement for its fiscal year ending June
          30, 1998 and does not believe that the effect of the adoption of this
          standard would be materially different from the amounts presented in
          the accompanying consolidated statements of income.

          In July 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive
          Income. SFAS No. 130 establishes standards for reporting and display
          of comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general
          purpose financial statements, in order to measure all changes in
          equity of an enterprise that result from transactions and other
          economic events of the period other than transactions with owners.
          Comprehensive income, as defined by SFAS No. 130, is the total of net
          income and all other nonowner changes in equity. Under SFAS No. 130,
          companies would include the cumulative total of comprehensive income
          as a separate component of its stockholders' equity statement. This
          statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
          1997, and is applicable on both an interim and annual basis.

          In July 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 131, Disclosures About Segments
          of an Enterprise and Related Information. SFAS No. 131 requires
          certain financial and supplementary information to be disclosed on an
          annual and interim basis for each reportable segment of an enterprise.
          Reportable segments, as defined by this statement, correspond to the
          way management organizes units and evaluates performance internally,
          and may be based upon products, geography, legal entity, management
          structure or a combination of these methods. SFAS No. 131 is
          applicable only to public, for-profit entities and is effective for
          fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997. Unless impracticable,
          companies would be required to restate prior period information upon
          adoption.

     (m)  Use of Estimates

          The preparation of these consolidated financial statements in
          conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires
          management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
          amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets
          and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
          reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period.
          Actual results could differ from those estimates.



<PAGE>   19


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997

                                   (Continued)


     (n)  Financial Instruments

          SFAS No. 107, Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments,
          requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments
          consisting of cash, accounts receivable and capital leases. The
          estimated fair value of these financial instruments approximates their
          carrying value.

(2)  INCOME TAXES

     At June 30, 1997, the Company had available net operating loss
     carryforwards of approximately $13,889,000 and tax credit carryforwards of
     approximately $576,000. The net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards
     may be used to offset future federal taxable income and federal income
     taxes, respectively, through the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. The
     Internal Revenue Code contains provisions that limit the net operating loss
     and credit carryforwards available to be used in any given year upon the
     occurrence of certain events, including significant changes in ownership
     interests.

     The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
     Accounting for Income Taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and
     liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial
     statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using currently enacted
     tax rates.

     The provisions for income taxes for the years ended June 30, 1997 and 1996
     consist of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>



                                                 JUNE 30,
                                            1997          1996
               <S>                        <C>          <C>      
               Current tax expense-
                   Federal                $  --        $ 340,000
                   State                     --           63,000
                   Foreign                 44,452         49,000

               Deferred tax expense-
                   Federal                   --         (340,000)
                   State                     --          (63,000)
                   Foreign                   --             --
                                          -------      ---------

                                          $44,452      $  49,000
                                          =======      =========
</TABLE>

     The income tax provision is due to international income taxes.




<PAGE>   20


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997

                                   (Continued)

The significant components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities at June
30, 1997 and 1996 are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                      JUNE 30,
                                               1997              1996

      <S>                                  <C>               <C>        
      Net operating loss carryforward      $ 4,722,000       $ 3,667,000
      Research and development credit
       carryforwards                           576,000           552,000
      Temporary differences                 (1,308,000)         (159,000)
                                           -----------       -----------
                                             3,990,000         4,060,000

      Valuation allowance                   (3,990,000)       (4,060,000)
                                           -----------       -----------

         Net deferred tax asset            $      --         $      --
                                           ===========       ===========
</TABLE>

Due to the uncertainty surrounding the realization of its deferred tax assets,
the Company has recorded a full valuation allowance against its deferred tax
assets.

The components of domestic and foreign income (loss) before the provision for
income taxes are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                       ------------------- JUNE 30, -------------------
                           1997              1996              1995

         <S>           <C>               <C>               <C>         
         Domestic      $(4,011,290)      $   325,215       $(2,813,334)
         Foreign          (244,236)          799,623          (739,950)
                       -----------       -----------       -----------

                       $(4,255,526)      $ 1,124,838       $(3,553,284)
                       ===========       ===========       ===========
</TABLE>



<PAGE>   21


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997

                                   (Continued)


(3)  CAPITAL LEASES

     The Company leases certain equipment under noncancelable leases expiring
     through fiscal 2002. Future minimum lease payments as of June 30, 1997
     under these arrangements are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

     Year ending June 30,
      <S>                                             <C>     
       1998                                           $353,001
       1999                                            181,583
       2000                                              9,580
       2001                                              9,580
       2002                                              9,580
                                                      --------

          Total minimum lease payments                 563,324
     Less--Amount representing interest                 61,015
                                                      --------
          Present value of minimum lease payments      502,309

     Less--Current portion of capital leases           319,690
                                                      --------
                                                      $182,619
                                                      ========
</TABLE>
(4)  COMMITMENTS

     In August 1993, the Company entered into a six-year operating lease for its
     facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The lease provides for uneven
     payments during the six-year period. However, rent expense is charged to
     operations evenly over the leased period. The Company also has operating
     leases for its Seattle and International office spaces and certain office
     equipment.

     Future lease payments under the Company's operating lease arrangements,
     exclusive of operating costs and net of sublease revenue through October
     2000, are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 GROSS         SUBLEASE           NET
                                               OPERATING        RENTAL         OPERATING   
                                                LEASES         RECEIPTS         LEASES
     Year ending June 30,
      <S>                                     <C>             <C>             <C>       
      1998                                    $  976,000      $(204,000)      $  772,000
      1999                                       970,000       (204,000)         766,000
      2000                                       265,000        (84,000)         181,000
      2001                                         9,000           --              9,000
      2002                                         1,000           --              1,000
                                              ----------      ---------       ----------
          Total future lease payments         $2,221,000      $(492,000)      $1,729,000
                                              ==========      =========       ==========
</TABLE>



<PAGE>   22


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997

                                   (Continued)

     Rental expense under the Company's operating leases was approximately
     $723,000, $707,000 and $576,000 in fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995,
     respectively. The fiscal 1997 and 1996 amounts are net of sublease income
     of approximately $171,000 and $169,000, respectively.

(5)  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     (a)  Stock Option Plans

     The Company adopted two stock option plans in 1987 and 1992 (the Plans)
     whereby the Board of Directors may grant incentive stock options (ISOs),
     nonqualified stock options, awards of common stock and authorizations to
     make direct purchases of common stock to eligible employees and others, as
     defined. ISOs are granted at a price not less than fair market value at the
     date of grant. The options typically vest over a five-year period.

     The Company has adopted the 1992 Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan
     (the 1992 Director's Plan) pursuant to which directors who are not officers
     or employees of the Company annually receive options to purchase shares of
     the Company's common stock. A total of 160,000 shares of common stock may
     be issued under the 1992 Director's Plan. The exercise price of each option
     equals the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. The options
     are exercisable upon the earlier of one year from the date of grant or the
     first annual meeting of stockholders, following the date of grant at which
     members of the Board are elected.

     The Board of Directors granted Key Officer Stock Options to members of
     senior management of the Company in 1992. The Key Officer Stock Options are
     nonqualified, nonplan stock options exercisable for an aggregate of 907,556
     shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.08 per share, the fair
     market value of the common stock on the date of grant. Each such option
     expires 11 years from the date of grant, subject to earlier termination if
     the optionee ceases to serve the Company other than by reason of death or
     disability. Each Key Officer Stock Option became exercisable upon the
     closing of the Company's initial public offering.

     As of June 30, 1997, a total of 3,898,508 shares of common stock were
     reserved for issuance under the Plans, the 1992 Director's Plan and the Key
     Officer Stock Options.

     The Company accounts for its stock-based compensation plans under APB
     Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. In October 1995,
     the FASB issued SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. SFAS
     No. 123 establishes a fair-value-based method of accounting for stock-based
     compensation plans. The Company has adopted the disclosure-only alternative
     under SFAS No. 123 for employees, which requires disclosure of the pro
     forma effects on earnings and earnings per share as if SFAS No. 123 had
     been adopted, as well as certain other information. The Company has
     computed the pro forma disclosures required under SFAS No. 123 for all
     stock options granted during fiscal years 1996 and 1997, including the
     Employee Stock




<PAGE>   23


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997

                                   (Continued)



     Purchase Plan using the Black-Scholes option pricing model prescribed by
     SFAS No. 123. For nonemployees, SFAS No. 123 requires that the compensation
     expense calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model be charged
     to the statement of operations. The value of options awarded to
     nonemployees as determined under SFAS No. 123 is not material to the
     results of operations for both fiscal years 1997 and 1996.

     The assumptions used and the weighted average information for the fiscal
     years ended June 30, 1997 and 1996 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                            ---- FISCAL YEARS ENDED ----
                                                              JUNE 30,         JUNE 30, 
                                                                1997            1996
        <S>                                                 <C>              <C>        
        Risk-free interest rates                            6.00%-6.74%      5.61%-6.74%
        Expected dividend yield                                 None            None
        Expected lives                                        5 years         5 years
        Expected volatility                                      70%            70%
        Weighted average grant-date fair value of
         options granted during the period                     $1.62           $2.35
        Weighted average remaining contractual life of
         options outstanding                                5.10 years       5.53 years
        Weighted average exercise price of 422,536
         and 139,715 vested options exercisable at          
         June 30, 1997 and 1996, respectively                  $1.42           $2.50
</TABLE>

     The effect of applying SFAS No. 123 would be as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                            ---- FISCAL YEARS ENDED ----
                                                              JUNE 30,         JUNE 30,
                                                                1997             1996

        <S>                                                 <C>              <C>        
        Net (loss) income as reported                       $(4,299,978)     $ 1,075,838
        Net (loss) income per share as reported                    (.49)             .11

        Pro forma net (loss) income                          (4,880,616)         622,956
        Pro forma net (loss) income per share                      (.55)             .07
</TABLE>

     Because the method prescribed by SFAS No. 123 has not been applied to
     options granted prior to June 30, 1995, the resulting pro forma
     compensation cost may not be representative of that to be expected in the
     future years.




<PAGE>   24


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997

                                   (Continued)


     The Company's stock option activity for all plans is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                        NUMBER       OPTION PRICE   WEIGHTED
                                      OF SHARES         RANGE       AVERAGE
                                                                  OPTION PRICE
<S>                                   <C>          <C>               <C>  
   Outstanding at June 30, 1994       1,457,671              --      $2.84
       Granted                        1,155,000              --       2.13
       Exercised                       (145,304)             --       1.05
       Canceled                        (544,741)             --       6.01
                                      ---------                      -----

   Outstanding at June 30, 1995       1,922,626              --       1.86
       Granted                          961,434              --       5.52
       Exercised                       (320,452)             --       1.65
       Canceled                        (195,240)             --       5.53
                                      ---------                      -----

   Outstanding at June 30, 1996       2,368,368              --       3.03
       Granted                        1,289,514              --       2.74
       Exercised                       (148,651)             --       1.64
       Canceled                        (507,669)             --       4.28
                                      ---------                      -----

   Outstanding at June 30, 1997       3,001,562    $.50- $13.00      $2.33
                                      =========    ============      =====

   Exercisable at June 30, 1997       1,378,182    $.50- $13.00      $2.04
                                      =========    ============      =====
</TABLE>



<PAGE>   25


                       MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                JUNE 30, 1997

                                 (Continued)



     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
     at June 30, 1997:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                 ----------- OPTIONS OUTSTANDING -----------    --------- OPTIONS EXERCISABLE --------
  RANGE OF       NUMBER OF       WEIGHTED           WEIGHTED    NUMBER OF      WEIGHTED       WEIGHTED
OPTION PRICES    OUTSTANDING     AVERAGE            AVERAGE     OPTIONS        AVERAGE        AVERAGE 
                 OPTIONS         REMAINING          OPTION      EXERCISABLE    REMAINING      OPTION 
                                 CONTRACTUAL        PRICE                      CONTRACTUAL    PRICE
                                 LIFE                                          LIFE
<C>               <C>             <C>                 <C>          <C>          <C>             <C> 
$ .50- $2.00      1,011,910       2.31 years          1.54         846,768      2.15 years      1.45
 2.25-  4.00      1,816,366       4.99                2.44         446,128      4.62            2.36
 4.25-  6.00        150,000       4.98                5.53          62,000      5.06            5.64
 6.13- 13.00         23,286       3.66                7.65          23,286      3.66            7.65
                  ---------                                      ---------                   
                                                                                             
  .50-13.00       3,001,562       4.08                2.33       1,378,182      3.11            2.04
                  =========                                      =========                   
</TABLE>


     (b) Employee Stock Purchase Plan

          The Company has an employee stock purchase plan pursuant to which the
          Company has reserved and may issue up to 200,000 shares of common
          stock in semiannual offerings over a 10-year period. Shares of common
          stock are sold at 85% of fair market value, as defined. During fiscal
          1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company issued 28,463, 13,065, and 14,565
          shares, respectively, under the Plan.

(6)  GEOGRAPHIC DATA



     Revenues by geographic area as a percentage of total revenues were as
     follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                           YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
     GEOGRAPHIC AREA    1997      1996      1995

     <S>                 <C>       <C>       <C>
     North America       68%       67%       64%
     Europe              23        24        26
     Other                9         9        10
                        ---       ---       ---

                        100%      100%      100%
                        ===       ===       ===
</TABLE>




<PAGE>   26


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997

                                   (Continued)


     Revenues, operating income (loss) and identifiable assets for the Company's
     U.S. and international operations for the three years ended June 30, 1997
     are summarized as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                              U.S.       INTERNATIONAL   ELIMINATIONS   CONSOLIDATED

     <S>                                   <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>        
     Year ended June 30, 1995-
      Revenues from unaffiliated
       locations                          $10,144,936     $5,738,290     $        --    $15,883,226
      Operating loss                       (2,869,452)      (765,777)             --     (3,635,229)
      Identifiable assets                   6,804,596      1,218,927          79,118      8,102,641

     Year ended June 30, 1996-
      Revenues from unaffiliated
       locations                          $14,010,567     $6,756,131     $        --    $20,766,698
      Operating income                        161,909        771,076              --        932,985
      Identifiable assets                  11,467,596      2,349,923      (1,918,367)    11,899,152

     Year ended June 30, 1997-
      Revenues from unaffiliated 
       locations                          $11,659,991     $6,017,736     $        --    $17,677,727
      Operating loss                       (3,994,060)      (400,137)             --     (4,394,197)
      Identifiable assets                  12,179,468      1,987,444      (5,380,469)     8,786,443
</TABLE>

(7)  ACCRUED EXPENSES

     Accrued expenses consist of the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                             JUNE 30,
                                                        1997           1996

       <S>                                          <C>            <C>       
       Accrued payroll and payroll-related items    $  402,715     $  827,950
       Accrued bonuses                                 425,000        466,939
       Accrued vacation                                375,368        316,582
       Accrued royalties                               146,962        281,288
       Other accrued expenses                        1,242,487        362,455
                                                    ----------     ----------

                                                    $2,592,532     $2,255,214
                                                    ==========     ==========
</TABLE>



<PAGE>   27


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 1997

                                   (Continued)


(8)  SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMER

     There were no significant customers in fiscal 1995. One customer accounted
     for 12% and 14% of net sales in fiscal 1996 and 1997, respectively.

(9)  LINE OF CREDIT

     The Company has a line of credit with a bank, collateralized by
     substantially all of the Company's assets. Borrowings are limited to the
     lesser of 65% of eligible domestic accounts or $500,000. Interest on
     outstanding borrowings under this line is based on the bank's prime rate
     (8.5% at June 30, 1997) plus 1%. The Company had no outstanding borrowings
     under this line as of June 30, 1997. The agreement contains covenants that,
     among other things, require the Company to meet certain profitability and
     maximum leverage ratios, and to maintain a minimum level of tangible net
     worth. Through June 30, 1997, the Company has complied with all such
     covenants. The line of credit expires in December 1997.

(10) ACQUISITIONS

     In November, 1996 and 1995, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding
     capital stock of acroScience Corporation and TriMetrix, Inc., respectively,
     in business combinations accounted for as poolings of interests. As a
     result of the business combinations, acroScience Corporation and TriMetrix,
     Inc. became wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. acroScience
     Corporation develops visual modeling and programming tools. In
     consideration of this acquisition, former stockholders of acroScience
     Corporation received a total of 250,000 shares of the Company's common
     stock. TriMetrix, Inc. develops and manufactures advanced charting and data
     analysis software. In consideration of this acquisition, former
     stockholders of TriMetrix, Inc. received a total of 219,997 shares of the
     Company's common stock. For financial reporting purposes, the periods
     preceding the acquisitions have not been restated, as the acquisitions were
     not material. The results of operations of acroScience Corporation and
     TriMetrix, Inc. have been included in the consolidated operating results
     since the dates of the respective acquisitions.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                  EXHIBIT 21.1




                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SUBSIDIARIES




STATISTICAL SCIENCES. INC.
(A MASSACHUSETTS CORPORATION)


TRIMETRIX, INC.
(A WASHINGTON CORPORATION)


ACROSCIENCE CORPORATION
(A WASHINGTON CORPORATION)

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1



                   CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS



As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation of our
reports included in this Form 10-K, into the Company's previously filed
Registration Statement File Nos. 33-58560, 33-74848, 33-72162, 33-94466,
33-87542, 33-99618, 33-99620, 333-16005, 333-18245 and 333-19513.




                                                         /S/ ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP


Boston, Massachusetts
September 29, 1997
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1
<CURRENCY> U.S. DOLLARS
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUN-30-1997
<PERIOD-START>                             JUL-01-1996
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1997
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                       2,802,389
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                3,237,812
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                    343,785
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             6,859,511
<PP&E>                                       6,441,234
<DEPRECIATION>                               4,888,216
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               8,786,443
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                        6,402,750
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                        90,064
<OTHER-SE>                                   2,078,062
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 8,786,443
<SALES>                                     15,179,191
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                            17,677,727
<CGS>                                        3,124,158
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                3,945,939
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                            18,125,985
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              14,440
<INCOME-PRETAX>                            (4,225,526)
<INCOME-TAX>                                    44,452
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                        (4,299,978)
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                               (4,299,978)
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                    (.49)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                    (.49)
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
