-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 RN8/0QC3b5qaGCFS8r6XGGQvKoikM81LgSLyCxe7OHO8ukRoZqW8x2AVgqFDIpt5
 MUhwjEZJTG3MEtVbkr/9bA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000895095-98-000006.txt : 19980331
<SEC-HEADER>0000895095-98-000006.hdr.sgml : 19980331
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000895095-98-000006
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19971231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19980330
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MATHSOFT INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895095
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				042842217
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20992
		FILM NUMBER:		98579322

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 MAIN ST
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142-1017
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6175771017

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 MAIN STREET
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142-1521
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>MATHSOFT,INC. 10K
<TEXT>



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC  20549
                                  ____________

                                    FORM 10-K

     FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

     ANNUAL  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT  OF  1934

 X          TRANSITION  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
- --
EXCHANGE  ACT  OF  1934
- --
     (NO  FEE  REQUIRED)

For  the  transition  period  from  July  1,  1997  to  December  31,  1997

                         Commission file number 0-020992
                                    MATHSOFT, INC.
                                    --------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)




              MASSACHUSETTS                                          04-2842217
              -------------                                           ----------
     (State  or  other  jurisdiction                            (I.R.S. employer
     of  incorporation  or  organization)                        identification)


     101  MAIN  STREET,  CAMBRIDGE,  MASSACHUSETTS                    02142
     ---------------------------------------------                    -----
      (Address  of  principal  executive  offices)                 (Zip  code)


Registrant's  telephone  number,  including  area  code  (617)  577-1017

Securities  registered  pursuant  to  Section  12(g)  of  the  Act:

                          COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE
                          ----------------------------
                                (Title of class)

     Indicate  by  check mark whether the registrant:  (1) has filed all reports
required  to  be  filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or  for  such shorter period that the
registrant  was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing  requirements  for  the  past  90  days.    Yes      X      No  ___
                                                        -----

     Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  registrant's  knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form  10-K.

       The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the  registrant  was approximately $25,887,030 as of March 23, 1998 (computed by
reference  to  the  closing price of such stock on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market).
The  number  of  shares of common stock, $.01 par value, outstanding as of March
23,  1998  was  9,171,731.







<PAGE>
                                     PART I

ITEM  1.  BUSINESS.

                                     General

MathSoft,  Inc.  ("MathSoft"  or  the  "Company") develops, markets and supports
software  productivity  tools  for  the  technical calculation and data analysis
markets  comprised  of  professionals,  researchers,  students  and  educators.

Mathcad  ,  the  Company's  principal  technical  calculation product, was first
released  in fiscal 1987 and can be used by desktop and laptop computer users to
perform  calculations  from  the  simple to the elaborate, and then document the
results.  Mathcad  offers  technical  professionals,  educators, and students an
interactive,  intuitive,  easy-to-modify  alternative  to  their  traditional
calculation  methods  such  as  pencil  and  paper, scratchpads and calculators.

The  market for technical calculation software includes technical professionals,
such  as electrical, mechanical and civil engineers, scientists, mathematicians,
researchers,  technicians  and  analysts,  as well as educators and students who
regularly  are  required  to  perform  technical calculations. These users often
refer  to a wide range of published materials containing formulas or data, which
can  be  used  in  solving  technical  problems.

In 1992, the Company expanded its technical calculation software product line by
introducing  Electronic Books as add-on products to Mathcad. These books deliver
extensive  off-the-shelf technical information, such as formulas and data, which
is  critical  to  technical  problem  solving.  Through  the  use  of MathSoft's
proprietary "live document interface " these books provide the Mathcad user with
on-screen  access  to  interactive technical information. This enables a Mathcad
user  to  either  perform  calculations in the book itself or transfer formulas,
data and results to Mathcad for instant calculation and analysis. The Company is
delivering  electronic  versions  of  industry  leading  reference  works  from
nationally  and internationally recognized publishers, in addition to internally
authored  works.    In addition, the Company licenses its Mathcad and Electronic
Book  authoring  technology  to  third  party  publishers  for  use  in creating
interactive  Electronic  Books  which are marketed and distributed by such third
party  publishers  as  stand-alone  products.

In  May  1993,  the Company opened an International office located in the United
Kingdom  to  broaden  distribution  of  its  products.  For the six months ended
December  31,  1997,  international  sales of all technical calculation and data
analysis  software  products  and  services represented 29.5% of total revenues.

In June 1993, the Company introduced a new product line through its wholly owned
subsidiary,  Statistical  Sciences,  Inc.,  now  referred  to as MathSoft's Data
Analysis  Products  Division  ("DAPD").  DAPD develops and markets advanced data
analysis  software  products  and  services  based  on  "S", a computer language
designed  for  statistics  applications. DAPD's principal product is S-PLUS , an
interactive  computing  environment that provides both a full-featured graphical
data  analysis system and an object-oriented language. The Company acquired this
business  on  June 30, 1993, through the acquisition of substantially all of the
assets  and  business  of  Statistical Sciences, Inc., a Washington corporation.
For  the  six-months  ended  December 31, 1997, worldwide sales of data analysis
products  and  services  represented  32.2%  of  total  revenues.

The  market  for data analysis software consists principally of professional and
academic  scientists,  engineers,  statisticians  and  business  analysts.  Data
analysis products are used in such fields as biomedical technology, quantitative
financial  analysis  and risk assessment, environmental science and engineering,
industrial  and  market  research,  and  process  control.

<PAGE>
In  November  1995,  the  Company  acquired  100%  of  the  outstanding stock of
TriMetrix,  Inc.  ("TriMetrix"),  a  Washington  corporation,  in  a  business
combination  accounted  for  as  a  pooling  of  interests.   As a result of the
business combination, TriMetrix became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
MathSoft  complemented  its technical calculation product line with the addition
of  Axum , a Windows-based technical charting and data analysis product acquired
with  TriMetrix,  which  transforms,  manipulates and sorts data sets to perform
both  simple  and advanced analysis. Axum has been redesigned to link seamlessly
with  Mathcad and is the technological foundation for the most recent release of
S-PLUS,  S-PLUS  4.0,  announced  in  June  1997.

In  June  1996,  the  Company  released StudyWorks! for Math and StudyWorks! for
Science  targeted  specifically  toward  high school and non-engineering college
students  and  educators. Both StudyWorks products offer an interactive learning
environment  and assist students in both mastering math and science concepts and
creating  professional  looking homework and lab reports in addition to allowing
both  educators  and  students  the  ability  to  collaborate  on  projects.  In
September  1996,  the  Company announced the release of StudyWorks!  Schools, an
instructional  edition  of  the  StudyWorks  for Math and StudyWorks for Science
software, which offers teachers a tools-based, interactive teaching and learning
environment.

In  November  1996,  the  Company  acquired  100%  of  the  outstanding stock of
acroScience Corporation ("acroScience"), a Washington corporation, in a business
combination  accounted  for  as  a  pooling  of  interests.   As a result of the
business  combination,  acroScience  became  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary of the
Company.    MathSoft  integrated  visual  modeling  and  programming  technology
acquired  from  acroScience into its technical calculation product line's latest
release  of  Mathcad,  Mathcad  7  for  Windows,  released  in  June  1997.

In  April  1997,  the  Company  expanded  its  data  analysis  product  line  by
introducing  MathSoft  StatServer,  a  warehouse-independent  platform  for
distributing  statistical  analysis  and  graphics to business professionals and
analysts  over  corporate  Intranets.   StatServer uses the S-PLUS technology to
create  deployable intelligent analytics for an organization and integrates with
existing  data  storage  and  desktop  applications.

In  December  1997,  the  Company  changed  its  fiscal year end from June 30 to
December  31.   Accordingly, the Company began a new twelve-month fiscal year on
January  1, 1998.  The six month period resulting from this change, July 1, 1997
through  December  31,  1997,  is  referred  to  as  the  "Transition  Period".

The  Company's  goals are to continue to meet the expanding calculation and data
analysis  needs  of  technical  professionals, to provide students and educators
with  software  tools  that  can be used for learning and for solving real-world
problems  and  to develop new products for the growing needs of businesses.  The
Company  will continue to broaden the appeal for all of its products to existing
and  new markets through technological innovation, in such areas as ease-of-use,
mathematical  power,  graphics  and deployability, and to continue to expand its
distribution  as  new  products  for  new  markets  are  introduced.

The  Company  was  incorporated  in Massachusetts in October 1984 under the name
Engineering  Specific  Products  Corp. and changed its name to MathSoft, Inc. in
January  1986. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 101 Main
Street,  Cambridge,  Massachusetts  02142,  and  its  telephone  number is (617)
577-1017.

<PAGE>
                                    Products

Technical  Calculation  Software  Products

MathSoft publishes a range of technical calculation and software products, which
allow  users to perform calculations and create publication-quality documents on
personal  computers.  Its  principal  product  in  this category, Mathcad, is to
technical  professionals  what  spreadsheets  have  proven  to  be  for business
professionals.  Mathcad  can  be  used  by  desktop  computer  users  to perform
technical  calculations, from the simple to the elaborate. An innovative feature
of  Mathcad  is  its  ability  to  allow  the  user to electronically access and
manipulate  formulas  and  data  available in the Company's Electronic Books and
Function  Packs.    Electronic  Books  provide  on-screen  libraries  of
industry-leading  reference  works,  user  guides,  solution  templates,  and
educational  materials while Function Packs provide additional functionality for
advanced  users.  StudyWorks,  the  most  recent addition to the Mathcad product
line,  was  designed as an integrated learning tool combining math, text, graphs
and graphics for the high school and college market.  StudyWorks helps student's
master  math  and  science  concepts,  get  better  grades  and  create
professional-looking  homework  and  lab  reports.

Mathcad

Mathcad's  broad appeal lies in its use of MathSoft's proprietary "live document
interface" technology. This permits users to calculate on a computer in much the
same  way  that  they  would  on  a  scratchpad  where  equations can be written
anywhere,  using real math notation, and erased, changed and moved. A scratchpad
can  show  a  variety  of  expressions  such  as  formulas, words, graphs, data,
equations  and  pictures.    Mathcad  works  in  a  similar  free-form manner by
literally turning a computer screen into a live worksheet and therefore provides
a  very  intuitive  interface  to  perform  a  wide range of numeric or symbolic
calculations, but Mathcad has one distinct advantage over a real scratchpad - it
calculates.

When  using  Mathcad,  the  computer  screen  initially  appears  blank  like  a
scratchpad.  Using  the  keyboard  and the mouse, the user begins by placing the
cursor  anywhere  on the screen and starts typing. To create a formula, the user
types  keystrokes  (+, /, *, etc.) or uses a mouse to click on a symbol palette.
As  the  user  types,  Mathcad  automatically  formats  the formulas in standard
mathematical  notation  and instantly calculates the results. To create a graph,
the user selects the graph symbol from the palette and defines the parameters of
the  graph. As with an electronic spreadsheet, Mathcad instantly updates results
as  changes  to  variables  or  formulas  are  made. Text may be added anywhere.
Multi-page  presentation  quality  documents can be printed, complete with text,
graphics,  tables  and  equations.  It's free-form interactive environment makes
Mathcad  ideal for formulating ideas, setting up problems and evolving solutions
and  sharing both the process and the results through printed documents, e-mail,
and  the  World  Wide  Web.

Mathcad  is used as a calculator for simple formulas, as a more elaborate solver
for  equations  formally  linked within a "live document", as a technical report
generator,  as  a  live  charting  facility,  and  as  a  mathematical  teaching
environment.  Mathcad  also provides an interface to on-line technical reference
works.  Mathcad  performs  numeric  and  symbolic  calculations  in the real and
complex  domain, solves systems of linear and non-linear equations, and performs
iterative  calculations.


<PAGE>
Electronic  Books

An  extension  of the Mathcad product line, Electronic Books deliver information
and solutions in an interactive form to Mathcad users.  Electronic Books provide
the  user  with  on-screen  libraries  of technical data combined with Mathcad's
capacity  to  utilize  and  manipulate  the  raw data through its "live document
interface".    This  enables  the  user  to  search  the  book for material, use
hyperlinks  to  jump to related sections within the work, and calculate problems
and manipulate data using formulas and data contained in the work. A key feature
of  MathSoft's  Electronic  Books  is that the material is live and interactive,
enabling  a  Mathcad  user to apply the formulas or data from the book either by
performing  calculations  in  the book itself or by transferring the formulas or
data,  or  results,  to  Mathcad  for  calculation  and  analysis.  Without  the
Electronic  Book,  the  user must manually key in entire formulas from published
sources  before  using  the  software  to  solve equations. The book may contain
reference  information  (e.g.,  the properties of various materials and standard
formulas),  solutions  for  standard engineering problems, tutorials on selected
topics,  or  educational  courseware.  Additionally,  Mathcad's  "live  document
interface"  supports  the  inclusion  of  sound  and  video  components.

In  addition  to  internally  authored  works,  the  Company delivers electronic
versions of industry-leading reference works from nationally and internationally
recognized  publishers. The agreements by which the Company licenses content for
Electronic  Books  from publishers typically provide for a non-exclusive license
at  an  agreed upon royalty rate, and continue for a term of five to seven years
unless  extended  by  mutual  agreement.

The  Company  also licenses its Mathcad and Electronic Book authoring technology
to third party publishers for use in creating interactive Electronic Books which
are  marketed  and  distributed  by  such  third party publishers as stand-alone
products.    Users  are  not required to use Mathcad to access these interactive
Electronic  Books.

Function  Packs

Function  Packs  provide  additional  functionality  to  Mathcad in the areas of
signal  processing, data analysis, statistics and graphics.  Once installed, the
functions  are  seamlessly integrated with the Mathcad function set allowing the
user  to  see results immediately and explore the effects of changing parameters
in  mathematical  routines.

     Axum

In  November  1995,  the  Company  acquired  100%  of  the  outstanding stock of
TriMetrix,  Inc.,  a  software  company  located  in Seattle, Washington and the
developer of Axum software.  Axum is a Windows-based advanced technical graphing
and  data  analysis  software  which  offers  scientists  and  engineers  in the
technical  professional  market,  including Mathcad users, the advanced charting
tools  needed  for  creating  compelling,  highly  visual  presentations  and
publication-quality  documents.    Users can transform, manipulate and sort data
sets  to  perform  both  simple  and  advanced  analysis.    Axum  has also been
redesigned  to  link  seamlessly  with  Mathcad.

StudyWorks

StudyWorks! for Math and StudyWorks! for Science, productivity software for high
school  and college students and their teachers, was designed as a rich learning
environment  that  helps students understand math and science problems, complete
and  check  a  variety of solutions, and print out great looking lab reports and
homework  papers.   It also contains a section to help users prepare for the SAT
II  tests.    Each product is a three-in-one combination of an application, rich
interactive  content  and a unique two-way Internet access.  StudyWorks is based
on  a  powerful graphical calculation and document preparation tool and includes
rich  multimedia  encyclopedias of math and science formulas and key concepts in
algebra, geometry, earth science, chemistry, pre-calculus, physics, calculus and
statistics.   Users also receive built-in links to the Company's StudyWorks home
page,  which  allows  high  school  students,  college  students and teachers to
participate  in  virtual  study  groups  and discussion forums, pick up Homework
Hints  and  link  to  related  sites  on  the  World  Wide  Web.

<PAGE>
 StudyWorks!  for  Schools,  released  in  September  1996,  was designed as the
instructional  edition  complement  to  the  Company's  StudyWorks  for Math and
StudyWorks  for  Science  software  products.    StudyWorks  for  Schools allows
teachers  to  integrate  software  and  distance  learning approaches into their
current  math  and  science  curriculum  and  provide  students  with  an
"active-learning",  content-rich  learning  tool.    StudyWorks  for  Schools
integrates  seamlessly with existing curricula, works with graphing calculators,
includes  a  content-rich  math  and science reference library, and comes with a
Teachers  Resource Guide featuring sample lesson plans, classroom presentations,
lab  and  homework  exercises and tips for maximizing the use of the technology.
It  also  connects  teachers  and  students  to  each  other  via  the Web-based
Collaboratory for a variety of distance learning applications, including virtual
study  groups,  on-line  tutoring,  and the dissemination of class or lab notes,
problem  sets,  exams  and  solutions.


Data  Analysis  Software  Products

S-PLUS

On  June  30,  1993,  the  Company  acquired  substantially all of the assets of
Statistical  Sciences,  Inc., a software company located in Seattle, Washington.
The  Company's  principal  product  in  this  category,  S-PLUS, is an advanced,
exploratory data analysis and statistical data mining solution for technical and
business  professionals  who  need  sophisticated  analysis  and  visualization
capabilities.    Based  on the object-oriented "S" programming language licensed
from  Lucent Technologies Inc., S-PLUS enables users to perform exploratory data
analysis,  graphics, statistics, visualization and mathematical computing in the
Windows  and UNIX environments.  The primary advantage of S-PLUS lies within the
"S"  Language.    The  "S"  language is the only modern object-oriented language
created  specifically  for  data  visualization  and  exploration,  statistical
modeling and programming with data.  This interactive language environment gives
users  immediate  feedback  at  every  stage  of  their  analysis.

Modules

To  complement  S-PLUS,  the Company offers add-on modules that work with S-PLUS
and  provide  additional  "S"  language  functions for specialized data analysis
purposes.

StatServer

In  April  1997,  the  Company  expanded  its  data  analysis  product  line  by
introducing  MathSoft  StatServer.   StatServer enables corporations to leverage
existing client/server and internet/intranet technologies and deploy statistical
expertise  throughout an organization.  StatServer is data warehouse-independent
and integrates seamlessly with all standard database and data warehouse formats.
The  robust  database  support provides the tools for advanced analysis and data
visualization  of the most popular relational databases.  With StatServer, basic
statistical models and data visualization capabilities are built and stored in a
central server for access by non-technical users, who can apply these analytical
techniques from a single and familiar client to understand or interpret key data
sets.    Using  StatServer,  professionals  in  diverse  fields such as finance,
biomedicine  and manufacturing can use familiar tools such as Excel, Netscape or
Powerbuilder  to  access  corporate  data  resources  and  perform data analysis
without  becoming  experts  in  statistics  or  users  of  statistical  tools.
StatServer  moves  beyond  the  capabilities  of  report  writers,  spreadsheet
applications  and stand-alone data analysis software, representing a significant
advancement  in  decision  support  and  data  mining  technology.

<PAGE>
Marketing  and  Sales

     Technical  Calculation  Software  Products

The Company's market for technical calculation software products consists of two
significant  groups  of  end  users:  technical  professionals and educators and
students.  End  users  within  the  technical  professionals group span numerous
fields  and  include  electrical,  mechanical  and  civil engineers, scientists,
mathematicians,  researchers,  technicians  and  analysts.  The education market
consists of secondary, undergraduate and graduate educators and students in many
technical  disciplines.  The  Company's products are currently used as tools for
diverse  purposes  from  back-of-the  envelope calculations to bridge design and
genetic  engineering.


MathSoft  reaches  domestic  customers of Mathcad primarily through a network of
educational  and  commercial  third  party  resellers  and  distributors.    To
complement  this  network,  the  Company  has  a domestic telesales organization
focused  on  sales  to the registered installed base as well as lead generation,
prospect  qualification  and  sales  of  site  license  agreements  and  network
licenses.  In addition, Mathcad upgrades are primarily marketed to the Company's
registered  installed base via direct mail.  For the Transition Period, domestic
sales  through  distributor  and  reseller channels accounted for 46.9% of total
domestic  sales  of technical calculation software products, with the balance of
such  sales through either installed base direct mail or the Company's telesales
operations.

Internationally,  all  technical  calculation  software  products  are  marketed
primarily through a network of resellers and distributors.  Mathcad upgrades are
marketed  through  distributors  as well as to the registered installed base via
direct  mail.   For the Transition Period, international sales through resellers
and  distributors  accounted for 99.6% of total international sales of technical
calculation  software  products.

     Data  Analysis  Software  Products

The  Company's  market  for  data  analysis  products  consists  principally  of
professional  and academic scientists, engineers and statisticians.  The product
is used in such fields as biomedical technology, quantitative financial analysis
and  risk  assessment,  environmental  science  and  engineering, industrial and
market  research,  and  process  control.

The  Company  reaches  domestic  customers  of  its  data analysis products both
through its domestic telesales organization and a new outside sales team.  Leads
are  generated  from  advertising,  vertical market list rentals and tradeshows,
which  are  then  pursued  by  the  telesales  organization.

Internationally,  the  Company  reaches  customers of its data analysis products
entirely  through  a  network  of  resellers  and  distributors.

<PAGE>
Customer  Technical  Support

Technical  Calculation  Software  Products

MathSoft  subcontracts  customer technical support to its domestic customers by
phone, fax and mail through a third party vendor located in Denver, Colorado.  A
technical  support  staff  of  engineers  located  in  Cambridge is available to
support  the  vendor  in  Colorado  as  well  as  to  resolve the most difficult
technical  support  issues.  The Company provides this support free of charge to
individual  end-users  and  offers  a  Premium  Support  Plan  to  its corporate
customers.   The Company currently provides technical support for its StudyWorks
products  free of charge and additionally supports all product via the Company's
home  page  on  the  World  Wide  Web.

International  customers  who  purchase  product from distributors receive first
line  technical  support  from  their respective local distributor.  A technical
support  staff  of  engineers, located in the Company's United Kingdom sales and
marketing  office,  is  available  to  support  the  distributors.

Data  Analysis  Software  Products

Technical  support for the S-PLUS product line is provided to domestic customers
by  a  staff  of  engineers  located  in  Seattle.  Support is only available to
customers  who  purchase  an  annual  maintenance  and  technical  support plan.

International  customers  who  purchase products from distributors receive first
line  technical  support  from  their respective local distributor.  A technical
support  staff  of  engineers, located in the Company's United Kingdom sales and
marketing  office,  is  available  to  support  the  distributors.


<PAGE>
Manufacturing  and  Distribution

The  Company  utilizes several third party vendors to manufacture and distribute
its  products.  This permits the Company to manage peak volumes customary in the
software  industry  and  to  avoid  having  to  maintain  high fixed costs while
experiencing  daily  fluctuations  in  order  and  customer  contacts.

The  Company's  practice is to ship its products promptly upon receipt of orders
from  its  customers  and,  as  a  result,  product  backlog is not significant.

Technical  Calculation  Software  Products

The  Company  subcontracts with a single independent third party vendor, located
in  Plymouth,  Massachusetts,  to  manufacture  all of its technical calculation
software  products  and  fulfill  all  of  its  domestic  orders.

With  the  exception  of  Mathcad  upgrade  orders generated by direct mail, the
Company  processes  all  domestic  orders  from its leased facilities located in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts.  MathSoft  subcontracts the processing of all Mathcad
upgrade  direct  mail  orders  with  an  independent  service company located in
Chicago,  Illinois.

All  international  orders  are processed by a third party vendor located in the
United  Kingdom  that  also  provides  warehousing  and  fulfillment  services.

Data  Analysis  Software  Products

The  Company  subcontracts  with  a  third  party  vendor,  located  in  Monroe,
Washington, to manufacture all of its S-PLUS product line products.  The Company
warehouses  inventory  and processes and fulfills domestic orders internally out
of  its Seattle office.  All international orders are processed and fulfilled by
third  party vendors located in the United Kingdom that also provide warehousing
and  fulfillment  services.

Product  Development

MathSoft's  research and development organization, divided between the Company's
Cambridge,  Massachusetts  and Seattle, Washington locations, is responsible for
software  development,  product  documentation,  and  quality  assurance.  Its
priorities are to continue technical innovation for power and performance and to
respond  to  market  feedback  by continuing to design products for ease-of-use.

MathSoft's development team consists of experts in software engineering, quality
assurance,  mathematics, statistics, engineering and documentation.  In software
engineering,  MathSoft's  professional staff has expertise in computer graphics,
compiler  design,  user  interface  design  and  advanced  Windows  and Internet
technologies.

During  the  Transition  Period, the six months ended December 31, 1996, and the
fiscal  years ended June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995, research and development costs
charged  to  operations were $2,816,000, $2,378,000, $5,143,000, $3,659,000, and
$3,059,000, respectively.  The Company has not capitalized any internal software
development  costs  during  the  Transition  Period.

Competition

The  markets  for  technical calculation and data analysis software products are
highly  competitive.    In  the  technical calculation software market, MathSoft
considers  its  principal  competition to include technical calculation software
from  companies  providing  specialized  tools,  such as The MathWorks, Waterloo
Maple  Software  and Wolfram Research.  In the data analysis market, the Company
considers  its  principal  competition  to include statistical software products
from  such  companies  as  SAS,  SPSS, StatSoft, Inc. and Visual Numerics.  
<PAGE>
In both markets, the
Company faces competition from companies providing competing software solutions,
such  as spreadsheets.  The Company may also face new competition from potential
entrants  into  the technical calculation and data analysis software markets and
more focused competition from companies in related markets, such as providers of
spreadsheet  programs,  which  could add to or improve the technical calculation
and  data  analysis  functionality  of  their  existing products.  Some of these
companies  may  have  significant  name  recognition,  as  well as substantially
greater capital resources, marketing experience, research and development staffs
and  production  facilities  than the Company.  Although the Company believes it
has  a  technological  advantage  over  existing  competitors  in  the technical
calculation  and  the data analysis software markets, maintaining that advantage
will  require  continued  investment by the Company in research and development.
There  can  be  no  assurance that the Company will have sufficient resources to
make  such investment or that the Company will be able to make the technological
advances  necessary  to  maintain  such  competitive  advantage.

<PAGE>
Intellectual  Property  Rights  and  Licenses

MathSoft's  software  is proprietary and the Company attempts to protect it with
copyrights,  trade secret laws and internal nondisclosure safeguards, as well as
restrictions  on  copying,  disclosure and transferability that are incorporated
into  its software license agreements. Generally, the Company's products are not
physically  copy-protected. In order to retain exclusive ownership rights to all
software  developed  by MathSoft, the Company licenses all software and provides
it in executable code only, with contractual restrictions on copying, disclosure
and  transferability.  As  is  customary  in the industry, MathSoft licenses its
products to end-users by use of a 'shrink-wrap' license. The source code for all
of  the  Company's  products  is  protected as a trade secret and as unpublished
copyrighted  work.  In  addition, the Company has entered into nondisclosure and
inventions  agreements  with  key employees. The Company has been
granted two patents and is aggressively pursuing patent protection.  However, in
those  areas where the Company has no patent protection, judicial enforcement of
copyright  laws  may  be  uncertain.

Prior  to  fiscal  1994,  the  Company  licensed,  on a worldwide basis, MAPLE V
Symbolic  Algebra  Software  jointly  from  the University of Waterloo, Waterloo
Maple  Software,  Inc. and two authors in exchange for ongoing royalty payments.
In  fiscal  1994,  the  Company  was granted a non-exclusive worldwide perpetual
license  for  this  technology  for  inclusion  in Mathcad and other products in
exchange  for  a  fixed  royalty  payment.

The  Company  is  a  worldwide  licensee  until  February  18,  2002  of Lucent
Technologies  Inc.  for  the  "S"  programming  language. Under the license, the
Company  has  the  right  to  use,  sublicense  and  support the "S" programming
language from Lucent Technologies in exchange for royalties.  Any modifications,
enhancements, adaptations or derivations of the "S" programming language are the
property  of the Company. After February 18, 2002, the Company, at its election,
may  extend  this  license  for five-year terms in perpetuity, provided that the
Company  continues  to  comply  with its obligations under the license. Although
termination  of  this  license  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect on the
Company's  operations  as  Lucent  Technologies  is the sole licensor of the "S"
programming  language,  the  Company is not presently aware of any circumstances
which  would  prevent  it  from  fulfilling  its  obligations under the license.

Due  to  the  rapid  pace  of technological change in the software industry, the
Company  believes  that  patent,  trade secret and copyright protection are less
significant  to  its  competitive  position  than factors such as the knowledge,
ability  and  experience  of  the  Company's personnel, new product development,
frequent  product  enhancements,  name recognition, and ongoing reliable product
maintenance  and  support.

The  Company  believes  that  its  products  and other proprietary rights do not
infringe  the  proprietary  rights  of third parties. There can be no assurance,
however,  that  third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future.

<PAGE>
Employees

As  of  December  31,  1997,  the  Company  employed  approximately  160 regular
full-time  and  part-time employees, of which 14 were outside the United States.
As  necessary,  the Company supplements its regular employees with temporary and
contract  personnel.   As of December 31, 1997, the Company employed 8 temporary
and  contract  personnel, of which 1 was outside the United States.  None of the
Company's regular employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a
collective  bargaining  agreement.  The  Company  has  never  experienced a work
stoppage  and  believes  that  its  employee  relations  are  good.

Cautionary  Statements

In  addition  to  the other information in this report, the following cautionary
statements  should  be  considered  carefully  in evaluating the Company and its
business.    Information  provided  by the Company from time to time may contain
certain  "forward-looking"  information,  as  that  term  is  defined by (i) the
Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995  (the  "Act") and (ii) in
releases  made  by  the  Securities  and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").  These
cautionary  statements  are being made pursuant to the provisions of the Act and
with  the intention of obtaining the benefits of the "safe harbor" provisions of
the  Act.

Variability  of  Quarterly Operating Results.  The Company's quarterly operating
results  may  vary significantly from quarter to quarter, depending upon factors
such  as the introduction and market acceptance of new products and new versions
of  existing  products,  the  ability  to reduce expenses, and the activities of
competitors.  Because a high percentage of the Company's expenses are relatively
fixed  in  the near term, minor variations in the timing of orders and shipments
can  cause  significant  variations in quarterly operating results.  The Company
operates  with  little  or  no  backlog  and  has  no  long-term  contracts, and
substantially  all  of its product revenues in each quarter result from software
licenses  issued  in  that  quarter,  and  the  Company's  ability to accurately
forecast  future revenues and income for any period is necessarily limited.  Any
forward-looking information provided from time to time by the Company represents
only  management's  then-best  current estimate of future results or trends, and
actual  results  may  differ  materially  from  those contained in the Company's
estimates.

Potential  Volatility  of Stock Price.  There has been significant volatility in
the  market  price  of securities of technology companies.  The Company believes
factors such as announcements of new products by the Company or its competitors,
quarterly  fluctuations  in  the  Company's  financial results or other software
companies'  financial  results,  shortfalls  in  the  Company's actual financial
results  compared to results previously forecasted by stock market analysts, and
general  conditions  in  the  software  industry and conditions in the financial
markets  could  cause  the  market  price  of  the  Common  Stock  to  fluctuate
substantially.   These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of the
Company's  Common  Stock.

Risks  Associated  with  Acquisitions.    The  Company  has  made  a  number  of
acquisitions  and  will continue to review future acquisition opportunities.  No
assurances  can  be  given  that  acquisition  candidates  will  continue  to be
available  on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to the Company.  Acquisitions
involve  numerous  risks,  including,  among  other things, possible dilution to
existing shareholders, difficulties and expenses incurred in connection with the
acquisitions  and  the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or
products  of  the  acquired  companies,  the difficulty of operating new (albeit
related) businesses, the diversion of management's attention from other business
concerns  and  the  potential loss of key employees of the acquired company.  In
the  event  that  the  operations  of  an  acquired  business  do not live up to
expectations,  the  Company may be required to restructure the acquired business
or  write-off  the  value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business.
There  can  be no assurance that any acquisition will be successfully integrated
into  the  Company's  operations.

<PAGE>
Risks  Associated  with Divestitures.  The Company's product offerings presently
may  be  divided  between  two principal product families - those related to its
Mathcad line addressing the calculation needs of the technical, professional and
education markets, and its S-PLUS offerings, marketed primarily to professionals
needing  statistical  data  analysis  tools.

In  setting strategic goals to maximize shareholder value, the Company from time
to  time  considers the options of divesting itself of one product family or the
other,  or  product lines within a given family, to concentrate its focus on the
business  opportunity  associated  with  the remaining product family or product
lines.

At  the  present time, the Company is not party to any agreement relating to the
sale  of  either  of its product families or product lines within such families,
but  it  may  elect  to pursue such options at any time.  If the Company were to
consummate  such a sale, there can be no assurance that it would receive returns
from  such  sale  that  investors  in  the  Company  would  consider attractive.

Risks  Associated  with  Distribution  Channels.    The  Company  markets  and
distributes  its S-PLUS products in the U.S. through the Company's telesales and
outside  sales  force  and  internationally  through  third  party resellers and
distributors.  Mathcad  products  are  currently marketed and distributed in the
U.S.  through  third party resellers and distributors, telesales and direct
 mail.  Internationally, the Company's Mathcad  products are marketed and 
distributed through third party resellers and
distributors.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain
its  current  resellers and distributors, or expand its distribution channels by
entering  into arrangements with new resellers and distributors in the Company's
current  markets  or  in  new  markets.

Risks  Associated  with  International  Operations.  Sales outside North America
accounted for approximately 36.1%, 32.5% and approximately 34.0% of the 
Company's
total  revenues  in  the  twelve  months ended June 30, 1995, 1996 and 1997, and
approximately  29.5%  of  the Company's total revenues in the Transition Period,
and  may  continue  to  represent a significant portion of the Company's product
revenues.    Any  decrease  in sales outside North America may have a materially
adverse  effect on the Company's operating results.  The Company's international
business  and  financial performance may be affected by fluctuations in exchange
rates  and  by  trade  regulations.

Reliance  on  Third  Party Licensors.  Maple V, a software product licensed as a
part  of  the most recent version of Mathcad, contains certain copyrighted texts
licensed  from  third  party publishers incorporated in the Company's Electronic
Books,  and  the  S programming language, the language on which all of StatSci's
products  are  based,  are  currently  licensed  from a single source or limited
source  suppliers.  If such licenses are discontinued, there can be no assurance
that  the Company will be able to independently develop substitutes or to obtain
alternative  sources  or,  if  able to be developed or obtained as needed in the
future,  that  such  efforts would not result in delays or reductions in product
shipments  or  cost  increases  that could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's  consolidated  business  operations.

Rapid  Technological  Change;  Competition.   The technical calculation software
market is subject to rapid and substantial technological change, similar to that
affecting  the  software industry generally.  The Company, to remain successful,
must  be  responsive  to  new  developments  in  hardware  and  chip technology,
operating  systems,  programming  technology, Internet technology and multimedia
capabilities.    In  addition,  the  Company  competes  against  numerous  other
companies,  some  of  which  have  significant  name  recognition,  as  well  as
substantially  greater  capital  resources,  marketing  experience, research and
development  staffs  and  production facilities than the Company.  The Company's
financial  results  may be negatively impacted by the failure of new or existing
products  to  be  favorably  received  by  retailers and consumers due to price,
availability,  features, other product choices or the necessity of promotions to
increase  sales  of  the  Company's  products.

<PAGE>
Year  2000 Issues.  The Year 2000 issue exists because many computer systems and
applications  currently  use  two-digit date fields to designate a year.  As the
century  date change occurs, date-sensitive systems will recognize the year 2000
as  1900, or not at all.  This inability to recognize or properly treat the Year
2000 may cause systems to process critical financial and operational information
incorrectly.  The  Company  utilizes  software  from  third  parties and related
technologies throughout its business that will be affected by the date change in
the  year  2000.  An internal study is currently under way to determine the full
scope  and  related  costs to insure that the Company's systems continue to meet
its  needs.  The Company began incurring expenses in 1997 to resolve this issue.
All  expenditures will be expensed as incurred and they are not expected to have
a  significant  impact  on  the  Corporation's  ongoing  results  of operations.

Uncertainties  Regarding  Protection  of  Proprietary  Technology; Uncertainties
Regarding  Patents.    The  Company  believes  that  while  the  mathematical
calculations  performed by the Company's software are not proprietary, the speed
and  quality  of  displaying  the  computation and the ease of use are unique to
MathSoft's products.  The Company's success will depend, in part, on its ability
to  protect  the  proprietary  aspects  of  its  products.  The Company seeks to
protect  these  proprietary  aspects  of  its  products  principally  through  a
combination  of  contract  provisions and copyright, patent, trademark and trade
secret  laws.   There can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company to
protect  its  proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of
its  technology.  Although the Company believes that its products and technology
do not infringe any existing proprietary rights of others, the use of patents to
protect  software  has  increased  and there may be pending or issued patents of
which the Company is not aware that the Company may need to license or challenge
at  significant  expense.  There can be no assurance that any such license would
be  available  on acceptable terms, if at all, or that the Company would prevail
in  any  such  challenge.

Reliance  on  Attracting  and Retaining Key Employees.  The Company's continued
success  will  depend  in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly
qualified  technical,  managerial,  sales  and  marketing  and  other personnel.
Competition  for  such  personnel  is  intense.  The Company has non-competition
agreements  with  its  key  management and technical personnel.  There can be no
assurance  that  the  Company will be able to continue to attract or retain such
personnel.


ITEM  2.  PROPERTIES.

The  Company  leases  34,562  square  feet  of  office space at 101 Main Street,
Cambridge,  Massachusetts of which 23,350 square feet is occupied by the Company
and  11,212 square feet is sublet to a third party.  The terms of both the lease
and  sublease  for  office  space are scheduled to terminate in October 1999.  A
third  party  vendor  provides warehousing services to meet the Company's needs.
The  Company  also leases 15,891 square feet of office space and subleases 4,423
square  feet of office space at 1700 Westlake Avenue North, Seattle, Washington.
This lease expires in September 1999 and the sublease expires in March 2000.  In
connection  with  the acquisition of acroScience, the Company assumed a lease on
1,740  square  feet  of office space in Boulder, Colorado, which is scheduled to
terminate  in January 2000.  The Company currently sublets this space to a third
party,  the  term  of  which is scheduled to terminate in May 1998.  The Company
also  leases  2,931 square feet of office space in the United Kingdom.  The term
of  the  lease  for  this  office  space  is  scheduled to expire in March 2000.

The Company believes that its facilities are adequate for its needs. The Company
does  not  consider  the  specific location of its offices to be material to its
business.

ITEM  3.  LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS.

The Company is not involved in any legal proceedings which could have a material
adverse  effect  on  the  Company.

<PAGE>
ITEM  4.  SUBMISSION  OF  MATTERS  TO  A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY-HOLDERS.

An  annual  Meeting  of the Stockholders of the Company was held on December 12,
1997.    At  the  meeting,  the  Stockholders  of  the  Company  voted:

(i)          to  elect  Charles J. Digate as a Class II director, to serve for a
three-year  term  (until  the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2000) (6,978,260
shares  in  favor,  453,082  shares  withheld);

(ii)          to  elect  June  L.  Rokoff as a Class II director, to serve for a
three-year  term  (until  the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2000) (6,981,061
shares  in  favor,  450,281  shares  withheld);

(iii)          to  amend  the  Company's Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan to
increase  the  number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the
plan  from  2,550,000  shares  to  3,150,000  shares (2,927,183 shares in favor;
1,169,409  shares  against;  48,035  shares  abstaining;  and  3,286,715  shares
unvoted);  and

(iv)     to ratify the selection of Arthur Andersen LLP as auditors for the next
fiscal  year  (7,359,217  shares  in favor; 38,525 shares against; 33,660 shares
abstaining;  and  0  shares  unvoted).

<PAGE>
                                     PART II


ITEM  5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
                                        


The  Company's  Common  Stock  (Nasdaq:  MATH)  began  trading  publicly  in the
over-the-counter  market through the Nasdaq National Market on February 3, 1993.
Prior  to  that  date, there was no public market for the Common Stock.  On July
15,  1997, the Company transferred the listing of its Common Stock to the Nasdaq
SmallCap  Market.    The  following  table presents quarterly information on the
price  range  of  the Common Stock.  This information indicates the high and low
bid  prices  for  the Common Stock as reported by the Nasdaq National Market and
the  Nasdaq  SmallCap  Market  for  the  periods indicated.  These prices do not
include  retail  markups,  markdowns  or  commissions.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1996:  HIGH    LOW
                                  -----  ------
<S>                               <C>    <C>
First Quarter                     6 7/8   4 5/8
Second Quarter                    6 7/8   4 7/8
Third Quarter                     6 7/8   4 7/8
Fourth Quarter                    8 7/8   5 1/4

FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997:
First Quarter                     7 5/8   4 7/8
Second Quarter                    5 3/8   3 1/4
Third Quarter                     5 1/8   2 3/4
Fourth Quarter                    3 5/8  2 3/16

TRANSITION PERIOD:
July 1 to September 30, 1997          4  2 7/16
October 1 to December 31, 1997    4 5/8   2 3/8

</TABLE>



As of  March 23, 1998, the number of stockholders of record of Common
Stock  was  approximately  223.
The  Company  has never paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock and does not
anticipate  paying  any  cash  dividends in the foreseeable future.  The Company
currently  intends  to retain future earnings to fund the development and growth
of  its  business.

<PAGE>
ITEM  6.  SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA.

The  selected  consolidated financial data set forth below has been derived from
the audited financial statements of the Company.  The information should be read
in  conjunction  with  the  financial  statements  and  notes  thereto set forth
elsewhere  herein.

FIVE  YEAR  SUMMARY  OF  SELECTED  CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL  DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                             SIX MONTHS
                                             TRANSITION         ENDED        ------------FISCAL YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,-----------
(in thousands, except per share data)         PERIOD (1)    DEC 31, 1996     1997     1996      1995      1994      1993    (2)
- --------------------------------------------  -----------  --------------  --------  -------  --------  --------  --------  ---
<S>                                           <C>          <C>             <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
Total revenues                                $    13,024  $       9,478   $17,678   $20,767  $15,883   $26,610   $25,649 

Gross profit                                       10,505          7,495    13,732    16,766   11,819    20,113    20,933 

Income (loss)  from operations (3) (4) (5)          1,102         (1,131)   (4,394)      933   (3,635)   (7,296)   (6,330)

Net income (loss)                                   1,105         (1,066)   (4,300)    1,076   (3,553)   (7,146)   (6,260)

Net income (loss) per common and
  common equivalent share in 1997,
  1996, 1995 and 1994;
  proforma net loss per common and common
  equivalent share in 1993                           0.11          (0.12)    (0.49)     0.11    (0.50)    (1.02)    (1.10)

Working capital                                     1,870          3,186       457     4,688      617     1,618    10,190 

Total assets                                        9,812         10,628     8,786    11,899    8,103    13,378    20,162 

Long-term obligations, less current portion            74           ----       183         3       13        79       183 

Stockholders equity                                 3,495          5,238     2,168     6,759    2,624     5,800    12,611 


<FN>

(1)    The  Company  changed  its  fiscal year end from June 30 to December 31.  The Transition Period represents the six month
       period  from  July  1,  1997  through  December  31,  1997.

(2)  On  June  30,  1993,  the Company acquired substantially all of the assets and business of a software company, Statistical
Sciences,  Inc.,  a
      Washington  corporation  located  in  Seattle,  Washington.  The  Company  currently carries on this business through its
wholly-owned  subsidiary, Statistical  Sciences, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation.  The acquisition was accounted for as a
 purchase.  The selected consolidated financial  data  disclosed  herein  include  the  effects  of  this  purchase.

(3)  1995  amount  includes  a  write-down  of  intangible  assets  of  $1.662  million.

(4)  1994  amount  includes  a  restructuring  charge  of  $2.38  million.

(5) 1993 amount reflects a charge to operations of $6.57 million  for purchased research and development related to the StatSci
acquisition.
      
</TABLE>
<PAGE>


ITEM  7.         MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS  OF  OPERATIONS.

As  an  aid  to  understanding  the Company's operating results, the table below
indicates  the  percentage relationships of income and expense items included in
the  Consolidated Statements of Operations for the six months ended December 31,
1997 (the  "Transition  Period") and the six months ended December 31, 1996, the
three  years  ended  June 30, 1997 and the percentage changes in those items for
six  months  ended  December  31, 1997 and 1996 and the two years ended June 30,
1997.



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                 Percentage Change
                                                                          Transition
                                        Percentage of Total Revenues        Period (1) -
                                            Six Months                     Six Months
                                            Ended        Fiscal Year         Ended
                                Transition Dec 31,      Ended June 30,       Dec 31,  Fiscal Year Ended
                                  Period     1996    1997    1996    1995     1996    1997-96   1996-95
- ---------------------------------  ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  --------  --------  -------
<S>                                <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>       <C>       <C>
Revenues:
  Software licenses                 85.4%   87.2%   85.9%   87.4%   86.6%     34.6%    -16.4%    32.0%
  Services and other                14.6%   12.8%   14.1%   12.6%   13.4%     56.5%     -4.3%    22.5%
                                   ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  --------  --------  -------
      Total revenues               100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%  100.0%     37.4%    -14.9%    30.7%

Cost of Revenues:
  Software licenses                 14.0%   16.7%   17.7%   14.7%   20.7%     15.1%      2.0%    -6.8%
  Services and other                 5.4%    4.3%    4.6%    4.5%    4.9%     73.8%    -12.4%    20.7%
                                   ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  --------  --------  -------
     Total cost of revenues         19.3%   20.9%   22.3%   19.3%   25.6%     27.0%     -1.4%    -1.6%

     Gross profit                   80.7%   79.1%   77.7%   80.7%   74.4%     40.2%    -18.1%    41.9%

Operating Expenses:
  Sales and marketing               39.7%   52.8%   58.0%   46.8%   54.8%      3.2%      5.5%    11.7%
  Research and development          21.6%   25.1%   29.1%   17.6%   19.3%     18.4%     40.5%    19.6%
  General and administrative        10.9%   13.1%   15.5%   11.8%   12.8%     14.3%     11.3%    20.9%
  Write-down of intangible assets    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%    0.0%   10.5%        *         *        * 
                                   ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  --------  --------  -------

     Total operating expenses       72.2%   91.0%  102.5%   76.2%   97.3%      9.0%     14.5%     2.5%

     Loss from operations            8.5%  -11.9%  -24.9%    4.5%  -22.9%   -197.4%   -570.9%  -125.7%

Interest income (expense), net       0.2%    0.8%    0.8%    0.9%    0.5%    -73.8%    -27.7%   134.1%
                                   ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  --------  --------  -------

Loss before provision
  for income taxes                   8.6%  -11.1%  -24.1%    5.4%  -22.4%   -206.9%   -478.2%  -131.7%

Provision for income taxes           0.1%    0.2%    0.3%    0.2%    0.0%     20.0%     -9.7%       * 
                                   ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  --------  --------  -------

Net loss                             8.5%  -11.3%  -24.4%    5.2%  -22.5%   -203.7%   -499.7%  -130.3%
                                   ======  ======  ======  ======  ======  ========  ========  =======

<FN>

(1) The Company changed its fiscal year from June 30 to December 31.  The Transition Period represents
the  six  month period  from  July  1,  1997  -  December  31,  1997.

*  Not  meaningful.
</TABLE>

<PAGE>
Transition  Period  Ended  December  31,  1997 Compared to the Six-Month Period
Ended  December  31,  1996


Total revenues for the Transition Period increased 37.4% from $9,478,000 for the
six  months ended December 31, 1996 to $13,024,000 during the Transition Period.
This  increase  in  total revenues was primarily attributable to upgrade revenue
generated  by  the  recent  release  of  Mathcad 7 for Windows in June 1997, new
license  revenue  generated  from SPLUS-4.0 released in September 1997, and to a
lesser  extent,  SPLUS  service  revenue.

Mathcad  for  Windows  generated  upgrade revenue of $680,000 for the six months
ended  December  31,  1996  compared to upgrade revenue of $2,677,000 during the
Transition  Period,  an  increase as a percentage of total revenues from 7.2% to
20.6%,  respectively.    Prior  to  the release of Mathcad 7 for Windows in June
1997,  the  Company's  last  significant  upgrade,  Mathcad 6.0 for Windows, was
released  approximately  twenty-three  months earlier in July 1995 and therefore
upgrade  revenue  was  much  lower  in  the  six months ended December 31, 1996.
Worldwide  S-PLUS  product  line revenue increased 39.4% from $2,531,000 for the
six  months  ended December 31, 1996 to $3,529,000 during the Transition Period,
and  increased  as  a  percentage  of  total  revenues  from  26.7%  to  27.1%,
respectively.    Worldwide S-PLUS service revenue increased 167.7% from $269,000
in  the  six  months  ended  December 31, 1996 to $720,000 during the Transition
Period,  and  increased  as  a  percentage  of total revenues from 2.8% to 5.5%,
respectively.  Total international revenues attributable to sales of all Company
product  lines increased 20.9% from $3,182,000 for the six months ended December
31,  1996  to  $3,846,000  during  the  Transition  Period,  and  decreased as a
percentage  of  total  revenues  from  33.6%  to  29.5%,  respectively.

Total  cost of revenues for the six-month period increased 27.0% from $1,983,000
for  the  six months ended December 31, 1996 to $2,519,000 during the Transition
Period,  and  decreased  as  a percentage of total revenues from 20.9% to 19.3%,
respectively.    The decrease in total cost of revenues as a percentage of total
revenues  was primarily attributable to switching from disk to CD media with the
release  of Mathcad 7 for Windows, thereby decreasing direct material costs on a
per  unit  basis.   To a lesser degree, fixed costs, such as licensing costs for
the  "S"  language  used  in  the  S-PLUS  product  line and the amortization of
purchased  technology,  decreased  as  a  percentage of total revenues due to an
overall  higher  revenue base during the Transition Period.  Such decreases were
partially offset by increased inventory reserves during the Transition Period to
adequately  cover  inventory  exposure  in the sales distribution channel and an
increase in cost of services from $404,000 for the six months ended December 31,
1996  to  $702,000  during  the Transition Period due to the increase in service
revenue.

Sales  and  marketing  expenses  for  the  six-month  period increased 3.2% from
$5,007,000  for  the six months ended December 31, 1996 to $5,169,000 during the
Transition Period, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 52.8% to
39.7%,  respectively.   The increase in overall sales and marketing expenses was
primarily  attributable  to expenses incurred related to the launch of Mathcad 7
for  Windows  and  S-PLUS  4.0,  as well as an increase in S-PLUS domestic sales
expenses  incurred  to  support  direct  sales  of  this expanding product line.

Research  and development expenses for the six-month period increased 18.4% from
$2,378,000  for  the six months ended December 31, 1996 to $2,816,000 during the
Transition Period, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 25.1% to
21.6%.   The increase in overall research and development expenses was primarily
attributable  to  expenses  related  to development initiatives in the Company's
Data  Analysis  Products  Division  and  additional  personnel  to  support such
initiatives,  as  well as an increase in international product translation costs
for  Mathcad  7  French,  German  and  Japanese.

<PAGE>
General  and  administrative  expenses  for the six-month period increased 14.3%
from  $1,241,000 for the six months ended December 31, 1996 to $1,418,000 during
the Transition Period and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 13.1%
to  10.9%,  respectively.    The  increase in overall general and administrative
expenses  was  primarily attributable to costs incurred for management incentive
compensation  provisions  based  primarily  on  the achievement of profitability
targets,  and to a lesser extent, to fluctuations in international exchange rate
transactions.

Net  income  for  the  Transition  Period was $1,105,000 compared to net loss of
$1,066,000  for  the  six  months ended December 31, 1996.  Improved performance
from the recently refreshed Mathcad and S-PLUS product lines coupled with margin
improvements  all  contributed  to  this  improvement  in  profit.




<PAGE>
Fiscal  Year  Ended  June  30,  1997 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1996


Total  revenues  decreased 14.9% from $20,767,000 for the fiscal year ended June
30,  1996 ("Fiscal 1996") to $17,678,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997
("Fiscal 1997").  The decrease in total revenues was primarily attributable to a
worldwide  decrease in both new license revenue and upgrade revenue generated by
the  Company's  core  product,  Mathcad  for  Windows, and to a lesser extent, a
decrease  in  sales of Electronic Books, which work with Mathcad, and a decrease
in S-PLUS product line and services revenue.  The decrease in total revenues was
partially  offset  by  revenue  generated  by  the  release  of  Mathcad 6.0 for
Macintosh  in  November  1996, revenue generated by the StudyWorks! product line
released  in June 1996 and revenue generated from the Axum product line acquired
in  the  second  quarter  of  Fiscal  1996.

Mathcad  for  Windows  generated  upgrade  revenue  of $4,287,000 in Fiscal 1996
compared  to  upgrade  revenue  of  $1,388,000  in  Fiscal 1997, a decrease as a
percentage  of  total  revenues  from 20.6% to 7.9%, respectively.  Prior to the
release  of  Mathcad  7 for Windows in June 1997, the Company's last significant
upgrade, Mathcad 6.0 for Windows, was released approximately twenty-three months
earlier  during  July  1995,  and its upgrade cycle therefore came to a close in
Fiscal  1997.  Worldwide Mathcad for Windows non-upgrade revenue decreased 13.8%
from $7,377,000 in Fiscal 1996 to $6,359,000 in Fiscal 1997 due primarily to the
Company's  distribution channel's anticipation of the delivery of the next major
release  of  Mathcad  for  Windows,  Mathcad  7  for  Windows,  and  decreasing
sell-through  of  the  older  Mathcad 6.0 for Windows release.  Worldwide S-PLUS
product  line and services revenue decreased 8.7% from $5,904,000 in Fiscal 1996
to  $5,389,000  in  Fiscal 1997, and increased as a percentage of total revenues
from  28.4%  to  30.5%,  respectively.  The  decrease in S-PLUS product line and
services  revenue  was  attributable to a reduction in license revenue, due to a
material  shift  from  UNIX license sales to lower priced Windows license sales,
and  to  the  discontinuance of unprofitable S-PLUS services revenue.  Moreover,
the  product  line  reached  its fourth year of life without a major new release
resulting  in  sluggish new license sales prior to the delivery of S-PLUS 4.0 in
the  Transition Period.  Revenues attributable to the Axum product line acquired
in  the  TriMetrix,  Inc.  acquisition  accounted for $676,000, or 3.3% of total
revenues,  in  Fiscal 1996 compared to $1,023,000, or 5.8% of total revenues, in
Fiscal  1997.  Total international revenues attributable to sales of all Company
product  lines  decreased  10.9% from $6,756,000 in Fiscal 1996 to $6,018,000 in
Fiscal  1997,  and  increased  as  a  percentage of total revenues from 32.5% to
34.0%,  respectively.

Total  cost  of  revenues  decreased  1.4%  from  $4,000,000  in  Fiscal 1996 to
$3,946,000  in Fiscal 1997, and increased as a percentage of total revenues from
19.3%  to  22.3%,  respectively.    The  increase in total cost of revenues as a
percentage  of  total  revenues  was  primarily  attributable  to a reduction of
inventory  reserves  in  Fiscal  1996 based on an evaluation of actual inventory
exposure and reserve requirements.  In contrast, the Company increased inventory
reserves  in  Fiscal  1997  to  adequately cover inventory exposure in the sales
distribution  channel  as the Company prepared to release its next major upgrade
of  Mathcad,  Mathcad 7 for Windows.  In addition, fixed licensing costs for the
"S"  language used in the S-PLUS product line increased in Fiscal 1997 per terms
of  the  license  agreement  and  other fixed costs, such as the amortization of
purchased  technology,  increased  as  a  percentage  of  total  revenues  by
approximately  1.51%  due  to  an  overall  lower  revenue  base in Fiscal 1997.

<PAGE>
Sales  and  marketing  expenses increased 5.5% from $9,719,000 in Fiscal 1996 to
$10,251,000 in Fiscal 1997, and increased as a percentage of total revenues from
46.8%  to  58.0%,  respectively.  The  increase  in  overall sales and marketing
expenses  was  attributable to marketing expenses incurred related to the Fiscal
1997 launch of the StudyWorks! product line, Mathcad 6.0 for Macintosh and, most
recently,  Mathcad  7  for Windows, as well as to an increase in S-PLUS domestic
sales  expenses  as  the Company reorganized its sales infrastructure to support
direct  sales  into  this  expanding  product  line.    International  sales and
marketing  expenses  increased 3.8% from $2,285,000 in Fiscal 1996 to $2,372,000
in  Fiscal  1997.

Research and development expenses increased 40.6% from $3,659,000 in Fiscal 1996
to  $5,143,000  in  Fiscal 1997, and increased as a percentage of total revenues
from  17.6% to 29.1%.  The increase in overall research and development expenses
was  primarily  attributable  to  increased  personnel  and  consulting  costs
associated  with  the  continued expansion and development of the S-PLUS product
line, specifically related to the first release of StatServer in April, 1997 and
the  impending  release  of  S-PLUS  4.0  during  the  Transition  Period.

General  and  administrative  expenses increased 11.3% from $2,455,000 in Fiscal
1996  to  $2,732,000  in  Fiscal  1997  and  increased  as a percentage of total
revenues from 11.8% to 15.5%, respectively.  The increase in overall general and
administrative  expenses  was  primarily  attributable  to  fluctuations  in
international  exchange  rate  transactions.  The Company recorded exchange rate
losses of $12,000 in Fiscal 1996 compared to exchange rate losses of $257,000 in
Fiscal  1997.

Net  loss for Fiscal 1997 was $4,300,000 compared to net income of $1,076,000 in
Fiscal  1996.    Fiscal  1997  reflected a year of investment for the Company as
evidenced  by  its commitment to strategic development initiatives, most notably
in  the  Company's Data Analysis Products Division.  The release of new products
with  new  product  cycles  will  support renewed growth in both the Mathcad and
S-PLUS  product  lines.


Fiscal  Year  Ended  June  30,  1996 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1995


Total  revenues  increased 30.7% from $15,883,000 for the fiscal year ended June
30,  1995  ("Fiscal 1995") to $20,767,000 in Fiscal 1996.  The increase in total
revenues  was primarily attributable to an increase in worldwide Mathcad product
line licenses, an increase in worldwide S-PLUS product line and services revenue
and  revenue generated from the Axum product line acquired in the second quarter
of  Fiscal  1996.  The  release  of  Mathcad  6.0  in July 1995 supported a 129%
worldwide  increase in Mathcad upgrade revenue from $1,873,000 in Fiscal 1995 to
$4,287,000  in  Fiscal  1996.  Mathcad  upgrade  revenue  also  increased  as  a
percentage  of total revenues from 11.8% in Fiscal 1995 to 20.6% in Fiscal 1996.
The  Company's last significant upgrade, Mathcad 5.0, was released approximately
eighteen  months  earlier  during  January 1994, and its upgrade cycle therefore
came  to  a  close  in  Fiscal 1995.  Worldwide Mathcad non-upgrade product line
sales  increased  18.3%  from  $6,236,000 in Fiscal 1995 to $7,377,000 in Fiscal
1996 and worldwide S-PLUS product line and services revenue increased 10.9% from
$5,324,000  in  Fiscal  1995  to  $5,904,000  in  Fiscal  1996.  The increase in
worldwide  non-upgrade  Mathcad revenue was due primarily to the Company's focus
throughout Fiscal 1996 on a generating new license Mathcad sales by an increased
penetration  into  the  education  market  and  renewed growth in the commercial
markets.  Total international revenues increased 17.7% from $5,739,000 in Fiscal
1995  to  $6,756,000  in  Fiscal  1996,  and  decreased as a percentage of total
revenues from 36.1% to 32.5%, respectively.  The increase in total international
revenues was due to Mathcad upgrade revenues generated by the release of Mathcad
6.0, in addition to global distribution expansion efforts in both the commercial
and  education markets.  Revenues attributable to the Axum product line acquired
in  the  TriMetrix,  Inc.  acquisition  accounted for $676,000, or 3.3% of total
revenues, in Fiscal 1996. Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions in
Fiscal  1996  were  not  significant.

<PAGE>
Total  cost  of  revenues  decreased  1.6  %  from  $4,064,000 in Fiscal 1995 to
$4,000,000  in Fiscal 1996, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from
25.6%  to  19.3%,  respectively.    The  decrease in total cost of revenues as a
percentage  of  total  revenues  was primarily attributable to the allocation of
fixed  costs,  such  as  royalties and the amortization of purchased technology,
over  a  higher revenue base for the year.  In addition, amortization of product
development  costs  accounted for $489,000 of total cost of revenues, or 3.1% of
total  revenues,  in  Fiscal  1995.    There  was  no  amortization  of  product
development  costs  in  Fiscal  1996  as  amounts  were  fully  amortized.

Sales  and  marketing expenses increased 11.7% from $8,703,000 in Fiscal 1995 to
$9,719,000  in Fiscal 1996, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from
54.8%  to  46.8%,  respectively.  The  increase  in  overall sales and marketing
expenses  was  primarily attributable to more aggressive advertising and channel
promotional  activities  and  additional headcount and related costs in both the
domestic  sales  and marketing functions.  These increases were partially offset
by  a  reduction  in  direct mail marketing activities to prospective customers.
International  marketing  expenses  decreased  from $2,168,000 in Fiscal 1995 to
$1,661,000  in  Fiscal  1996  due  primarily  to a discontinuance of direct mail
marketing  activity  to  prospective customers and reduced installed base direct
mail  marketing  activity.

Research and development expenses increased 19.6% from $3,059,000 in Fiscal 1995
to  $3,659,000  in  Fiscal 1996, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues
from  19.2% to 17.6%.  The increase in overall research and development expenses
was  primarily  due  to  the  addition  of  personnel  from  the TriMetrix, Inc.
acquisition  as  well  as  expenses incurred related to product localization for
international  markets  and  S-PLUS  development  efforts.

General  and  administrative  expenses increased 20.9% from $2,030,000 in Fiscal
1995  to  $2,455,000  in  Fiscal  1996  and  decreased  as a percentage of total
revenues from 12.8% to 11.8%, respectively.  The increase in overall general and
administrative  expenses was primarily attributable to costs incurred to attract
and retain key management personnel in both the Company's Cambridge headquarters
and  Seattle  operation  including the addition of a new General Manager for the
Company's  Data  Analysis Products Division in the third quarter of Fiscal 1996.

Net  income  for Fiscal 1996 was $1,076,000 compared to a net loss of $1,891,000
in  Fiscal 1995, excluding the $1,662,000 non-cash charge for the revaluation of
certain  intangible  assets.    The  release  of  Mathcad  6.0  in July 1995 and
expansion of global distribution channels supported worldwide growth in both the
Mathcad and S-PLUS product lines.  In addition, the Company's renewed commitment
to  the  education  market  in Fiscal 1996 resulted in increased penetration for
both  existing  product lines and new product lines, such as StudyWorks released
in  June  1996.
<PAGE>
Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources


Cash  and  cash  equivalents totaling $4,133,000 at December 31, 1997, increased
$1,331,000  during  the Transition Period from $2,802,000 at June 30, 1997.  The
positive cash flow resulted primarily from cash provided by operating activities
of  $1,602,000, proceeds from exercise of stock options and warrants of $179,000
offset  by  purchases  of  property  and  equipment  of  $424,000.

The  Company  generated  $1,602,000 in cash from operating activities during the
Transition  Period.    The  cash generated by operating activities was primarily
attributable  to  net  income of approximately $1,105,000, non-cash depreciation
and  amortization charges, and to an increase in accounts payable and a decrease
in  prepaid expenses.  The changes in accounts payable and prepaid expenses were
due  to  the  timing  of payments and management's cash planning and forecasting
efforts.    The  increase  in  accounts  receivable  and the decrease in accrued
expenses offset these sources of cash.  Accounts receivable increased due to the
growth  in  the  Company's  business  and  accrued expenses decreased due to the
timing  of  certain payments.  The Company used $439,000 in investing activities
primarily  due  to the purchase of $424,000 of property and equipment.  Proceeds
generated  from  sales/leaseback  equipment  financing and the exercise of stock
options  of  $84,000  and  $179,000,  respectively,  were  offset by payments on
capital  lease  obligations  of  $139,000.

The Company's financial reserves are represented by cash and cash equivalents as
of  December  31,  1997.    The  Company  has  a line of credit agreement with a
commercial  bank.  Borrowings under the line are limited to the lesser of 65% of
eligible  domestic  accounts  or  $1,000,000  based  on  certain  profitability
covenants.  Borrowings are secured substantially all of the Company's assets and
bear  interest  at  the  bank's prime rate plus 1%.  The line of credit contains
certain  restrictive  covenants,  including  minimum  amounts  of profitability,
equity,  leverage and liquidity, all as defined in the agreement, and expires on
December 31,1998.  There were no amounts outstanding under this line at December
31,  1997.

The  Company  believes  its  financial  reserves  and  cash  flows  from  future
operations  will  be  sufficient to meet its liquidity requirements for at least
the next twelve months.  The foregoing statement is forward-looking and involves
risks  and  uncertainties,  many of which are outside the Company's control. The
Company's  actual  experience  may  differ materially from that discussed above.
Factors  that  might  cause  such  a difference include, but are not limited to,
those  discussed in "Cautionary Statements" in this Form 10-K for the Transition
Period  as  well as future events that have the effect of reducing the Company's
available  cash  balances,  such  as  unanticipated  operating losses or capital
expenditures  or cash expenditures related to possible future acquisitions.  The
Company  may be presented from time to time with acquisition opportunities which
require  additional  external  financing,  and the Company may from time to time
seek  to  obtain  additional funds from public or private issuances of equity or
debt  securities.    There  can  be no assurance that any such financing will be
available  at  all  or  on  terms  favorable  to  the  Company.

In  addition  to the other information in this report, the cautionary statements
discussed  in  this  Form  10-K  for  the Transition Period should be considered
carefully  in  evaluating the Company and its business.  Information provided by
the Company from time to time may contain certain "forward-looking" information,
as  that  term is defined by (i) the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995  (the  "Act")  and  (ii)  in  releases  made by the Securities and Exchange
Commission  (the "SEC").  These cautionary statements are being made pursuant to
the  provisions  of  the Act and with the intention of obtaining the benefits of
the  "safe  harbor"  provisions  of  the  Act.

<PAGE>
ITEM  8.          FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA.


The  following  consolidated  financial  statements  are  filed as part of this
report:

Report  of  Independent  Public  Accountants

Consolidated  Balance  Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and June 30, 1997 and 1996

Consolidated  Statements  of Operations for the six-month periods ended December
31,  1997  and  December  31,  1996 (unaudited) and for the years ended June 30,
1997,  1996  and  1995

Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity for the years ended June 30,
1997,  1996  and  1995  and  for  the  six-month  period ended December 31, 1997

Consolidated  Statements  of  Cash Flows for the six-month period ended December
31,  1997  and  December  31,  1996 (unaudited) and for the years ended June 30,
1997,  1996  and  1995

Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements

<PAGE>
                                       

                    Report of Independent Public Accountants



To  MathSoft,  Inc.:

We  have  audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of MathSoft, Inc.
(a Massachusetts corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997, June 30,
1997  and  1996,  and  the  related  consolidated  statements  of  operations,
stockholders'  equity and cash flows for the six-month period ended December 31,
1997  and  each  of  the  three  years in the period ended June 30, 1997.  These
financial  statements  are  the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility  is  to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our  audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant estimates made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a  reasonable  basis  for  our opinion.

In  our  opinion,  the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of MathSoft, Inc. and subsidiaries
as  of  December  31,  1997  and June 30, 1997 and 1996 and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for the six-month period ended December 31, 1997
and for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 1997, in conformity
with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles.



    /s/ Arthur  Andersen  LLP



Boston,  Massachusetts
February  9,  1998

<PAGE>

                                       
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                             ASSETS


                                                          DECEMBER 31,          JUNE 30,
                                                              1997          1997        1996
<S>                                                       <C>            <C>         <C>
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents                                 $   4,133,541  $2,802,389  $ 4,954,416
Accounts and other receivables, less reserves of
    approximately $1,598,000 at December 31, 1997 and
    $1,720,000 and $776,000 at June 30, 1997 and 1996,
    respectively                                              3,472,334   3,237,812    3,881,568
Inventories                                                     255,205     343,785      547,892
Prepaid expenses                                                233,714     475,525      381,638
                                                          -------------  ----------  -----------

Total current assets                                          8,094,794   6,859,511    9,765,514
                                                          -------------  ----------  -----------

Property and Equipment, at cost:
Computer equipment and software                               4,592,962   4,396,927    4,052,662
Property and equipment under capital lease                      615,910     427,898            -
Furniture and fixtures                                        1,012,763     989,520      968,644
Leasehold improvements                                          643,310     626,889      621,354
                                                          -------------  ----------  -----------
                                                              6,864,945   6,441,234    5,642,660

Less-Accumulated depreciation and amortization                5,315,979   4,888,216    4,044,072
                                                          -------------  ----------  -----------

                                                              1,548,966   1,553,018    1,598,588
                                                          -------------  ----------  -----------

Other Assets:
Purchased technology, net of accumulated amortization of
    approximately $2,938,000 at December 31, 1997 and
    $2,722,000 and $2,505,000 at June 30, 1997 and 1996,
    respectively                                                 70,500     287,253      504,006
Other assets                                                     97,890      86,661       31,044
                                                          -------------  ----------  -----------

                                                                168,390     373,914      535,050
                                                          -------------  ----------  -----------

                                                          $   9,812,150  $8,786,443  $11,899,152
                                                          =============  ==========  ===========

<FN>

     The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>

<PAGE>
                                       
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets

                                   (Continued)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


                                                           DECEMBER 31,            JUNE 30,
                                                               1997           1997           1996
<S>                                                       <C>             <C>            <C>
Current Liabilities:
Current portion of capital lease obligations              $     374,089   $    319,690   $     16,753 
Accounts payable                                              2,243,290      2,036,745      1,699,414 
Accrued expenses                                              2,207,834      2,592,532      2,255,214 
Accrued restructuring, current portion                           10,539         10,539         13,316 
Deferred revenue                                              1,389,042      1,443,244      1,092,541 
                                                          --------------  -------------  -------------

Total current liabilities                                     6,224,794      6,402,750      5,077,238 
                                                          --------------  -------------  -------------

Accrued Restructuring, less current portion                       7,465         13,613         24,152 
                                                          --------------  -------------  -------------

Capital Lease Obligations, less current portion                  73,751        182,619          2,694 
                                                          --------------  -------------  -------------

Accrued Rent, less current portion                               10,817         19,335         36,372 
                                                          --------------  -------------  -------------

Commitments (Note 4)

Stockholders' Equity:
Preferred stock, $.01 par value-
Authorized-1,000,000 shares
Issued and outstanding-none                                           -              -              - 
Common stock, $.01 par value-
Authorized-20,000,000 shares
Issued and outstanding-9,108,616, 9,006,376 and
   8,579,262 shares at December 31, 1997, June 30, 1997
   and 1996, respectively                                        91,086         90,064         85,793 
Additional paid-in capital                                   29,339,752     29,161,835     28,158,558 
Accumulated deficit                                         (25,887,525)   (26,992,109)   (21,474,509)
Cumulative translation adjustment                               (47,990)       (91,664)       (11,146)
                                                          --------------  -------------  -------------

Total stockholders' equity                                    3,495,323      2,168,126      6,758,696 
                                                          --------------  -------------  -------------

                                                          $   9,812,150   $  8,786,443   $ 11,899,152 
                                                          ==============  =============  =============

<FN>

        The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>

<PAGE>
                                       
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                              Consolidated Statements of Operations

                    SIX-MONTH  PERIODS  ENDED  DECEMBER  31,      YEARS  ENDED  JUNE  30,
                                 1997          1996          1997          1996          1995
                                           (Unaudited)
<S>                          <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenues:
Software licenses            $11,145,569   $ 8,265,680   $15,179,191   $18,155,650   $13,751,456 
Services and other             1,878,408     1,212,513     2,498,536     2,611,048     2,131,770 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Total revenues                13,023,977     9,478,193    17,677,727    20,766,698    15,883,226 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Cost of Revenues:
Software licenses              1,817,283     1,578,825     3,124,158     3,061,762     3,286,577 
Services and other               701,433       403,991       821,781       938,596       777,664 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Total cost of revenues         2,518,716     1,982,816     3,945,939     4,000,358     4,064,241 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Gross profit                  10,505,261     7,495,377    13,731,788    16,766,340    11,818,985 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Operating Expenses:
Sales and marketing            5,169,379     5,007,644    10,251,376     9,719,346     8,703,130 
Research and development       2,815,601     2,377,768     5,142,751     3,659,171     3,058,788 
General and administrative     1,418,295     1,240,686     2,731,858     2,454,838     2,030,296 
Write-down of intangible
     assets                            -             -             -             -     1,662,000 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Total operating
    expenses                   9,403,275     8,626,098    18,125,985    15,833,355    15,454,214 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Income (loss) from
     operations                1,101,986    (1,130,721)   (4,394,197)      932,985    (3,635,229)

Interest Income                   49,653        82,365       153,111       199,049       108,372 

Interest Expense                 (29,270)       (2,642)      (14,440)       (7,196)      (26,427)
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Income (loss)
before provision
for income taxes               1,122,369    (1,050,998)   (4,255,526)    1,124,838    (3,553,284)

Provision for Income
Taxes                             17,785        15,582        44,452        49,000             - 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Net income (loss)            $ 1,104,584   $(1,066,580)  $(4,299,978)  $ 1,075,838   $(3,553,284)
                             ============  ============  ============  ============  ============

Basic Net Income (Loss)
per Share                    $       .12   $      (.12)  $      (.49)  $       .13   $      (.50)
                             ============  ============  ============  ============  ============

Diluted Net Income
(Loss) per Share             $       .11   $      (.12)  $      (.49)  $       .11   $      (.50)
                             ============  ============  ============  ============  ============

Weighted Average
Number of Shares
Outstanding                    9,068,714     8,693,148     8,841,170     8,247,036     7,169,593 
                             ============  ============  ============  ============  ============

Weighted Average
Shares Outstanding
Assuming Dilution              9,944,283     8,693,148     8,841,170     9,541,580     7,169,593 
                             ============  ============  ============  ============  ============

<FN>

     The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
                        MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity

                                             
                                            COMMON STOCK        ADDITIONAL                  CUMULATIVE         TOTAL
                                          NUMBER OF  $.01 PAR    PAID-IN     ACCUMULATED    TRANSLATION    STOCKHOLDERS'
                                           SHARES     VALUE      CAPITAL       DEFICIT      ADJUSTMENT        EQUITY
<S>                                       <C>        <C>       <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>
Balance, June 30, 1994                    7,091,389  $ 70,914  $24,217,450  $(18,510,247)  $     21,787   $    5,799,904 
Exercise of stock options, warrants and
   Employee Stock Purchase Plan             181,759     1,817      210,832             -              -          212,649 
Compensation associated with issuance
   of stock options                               -         -      150,000             -              -          150,000 
Net loss                                          -         -            -    (3,553,284)             -       (3,553,284)
Translation adjustment                            -         -            -             -         14,332           14,332 
                                          ---------  --------  -----------  -------------  -------------  ---------------

Balance, June 30, 1995                    7,273,148    72,731   24,578,282   (22,063,531)        36,119        2,623,601 
Acquisition of TriMetrix, Inc.              219,997     2,200       63,700      (486,816)             -         (420,916)
Sale of common stock                        750,000     7,500    2,932,963             -              -        2,940,463 
Exercise of stock options, warrants and
   Employee Stock Purchase Plan             336,117     3,362      583,613             -              -          586,975 
Net income                                        -         -            -     1,075,838              -        1,075,838 
Translation adjustment                            -         -            -             -        (47,265)         (47,265)
                                          ---------  --------  -----------  -------------  -------------  ---------------

Balance, June 30, 1996                    8,579,262    85,793   28,158,558   (21,474,509)       (11,146)       6,758,696 
Acquisition of acroScience Corporation      250,000     2,500      618,500    (1,217,622)             -         (596,622)
Exercise of stock options and Employee
   Stock Purchase Plan                      177,114     1,771      374,777             -              -          376,548 
Compensation associated with issuance of
   stock options                                  -         -       10,000             -              -           10,000 
Net loss                                          -         -            -    (4,299,978)             -       (4,299,978)
Translation adjustment                            -         -            -             -        (80,518)         (80,518)
                                          ---------  --------  -----------  -------------  -------------  ---------------

Balance, June 30, 1997                    9,006,376    90,064   29,161,835   (26,992,109)       (91,664)       2,168,126 
Exercise of stock options and Employee
  Stock Purchase Plan                       102,240     1,022      177,917             -              -          178,939 
Net income                                        -         -            -     1,104,584              -        1,104,584 
Translation adjustment                            -         -            -             -         43,674           43,674 
                                          ---------  --------  -----------  -------------  -------------  ---------------

Balance, December 31, 1997                9,108,616  $ 91,086  $29,339,752  $(25,887,525)  $    (47,990)  $    3,495,323 
                                          =========  ========  ===========  =============  =============  ===============

<FN>

The  accompanying  notes  are  an  integral  part  of  these  consolidated  financial  statements.
</TABLE>



<PAGE>


                        MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

     SIX-MONTH  PERIODS  ENDED  DECEMBER  31,          YEARS  ENDED  JUNE  30,

                                                 1997          1996          1997          1996          1995
                                                           (Unaudited)
<S>                                           <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Cash Flows from Operating Activities:
Net income (loss)                             $1,104,584   $(1,066,580)  $(4,299,978)  $ 1,075,838   $(3,553,284)
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss)
to net cash provided by (used in) operating
activities, net of acquisitions-
Depreciation and amortization                    648,866       545,620     1,063,503     1,043,052     1,624,761 
Compensation associated with issuance                  -             -        10,000             -       150,000 
   of options
Write-down of intangible assets                        -             -             -             -     1,662,000 
Changes in assets and liabilities-
Accounts and other receivables                  (234,522)      251,616       643,756    (2,301,420)    1,790,517 
Inventories                                       88,580        17,472       210,946      (247,446)      500,760 
Prepaid expenses                                 241,811       (64,123)      (93,886)     (172,936)      711,831 
Accounts payable                                 206,543       694,961       329,822       136,252      (260,135)
Accrued expenses                                (399,362)   (1,018,900)     (252,499)     (754,768)   (2,043,772)
Deferred revenue                                 (54,202)      (55,707)      350,702       (74,285)      161,112 
                                              -----------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Net cash provided by (used in)
operating activities                           1,602,298      (695,641)   (2,037,634)   (1,295,713)      743,790 
                                              -----------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Cash Flows from Investing Activities:
Decrease in short-term investments                     -             -             -       448,618       629,888 
Purchases of property and equipment             (423,711)     (449,107)     (780,171)   (1,059,263)     (285,572)
Decrease (increase) in other assets              (15,579)      (35,834)      (56,374)       15,688        17,355 
Cash acquired from the acroScience and
   TriMetrix acquisitions                              -         9,691         9,691        27,849             - 
                                              -----------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Net cash (used in) provided by
investing activities                            (439,290)     (475,250)     (826,854)     (567,108)      361,671 
                                              -----------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Cash Flows from Financing Activities:
Payments on long-term debt                             -             -       (16,000)      (73,188)      (94,066)
Payments on capital lease obligations           (138,901)      (10,510)     (132,975)      (76,077)     (161,698)
Borrowings on capital lease obligations           84,432             -       565,406             -             - 
Proceeds from exercise of stock options,
    warrants and Employee Stock Purchase
    Plan                                         178,939       235,318       376,548       586,975       212,649 
Net proceeds from sale of common stock                 -             -             -     2,940,463             - 
                                              -----------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Net cash provided by (used in)
financing activities                             124,470       224,808       792,979     3,378,173       (43,115)
                                              -----------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Effect of Exchange Rate Changes on Cash
and Cash Equivalents                              43,674       (92,235)      (80,518)      (47,265)       14,332 
                                              -----------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash
Equivalents                                    1,331,152    (1,038,318)   (2,152,027)    1,468,087     1,076,678 

Cash and Cash Equivalents, beginning of
period                                         2,802,389     4,954,416     4,954,416     3,486,329     2,409,651 
                                              -----------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Cash and Cash Equivalents, end of period      $4,133,541   $ 3,916,098   $ 2,802,389   $ 4,954,416   $ 3,486,329 
                                              ===========  ============  ============  ============  ============

Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow
Information:
Cash paid during the period for-
Interest                                      $   29,271   $     2,642   $    14,439   $     5,519   $    26,426 
                                              ===========  ============  ============  ============  ============
Income taxes                                  $    2,981   $    23,111   $     7,530   $    49,220   $    34,069 
                                              ===========  ============  ============  ============  ============
<FN>

Supplemental  Disclosure  of  Noncash  Investing  and  Financing  Activities:
The  Company  financed  $83,623  of equipment through long-term debt and capital leases in the Transition Period.

The  Company  financed  $63,333 of equipment through long-term debt and capital leases in the year ended June 30,
1997.

In  November  1995, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of TriMetrix, Inc. in exchange for 219,997
shares  of  common  stock  of  the  Company.    This  acquisition  was  accounted  for as a pooling of interests.

In  November  1996, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of acroScience Corporation in exchange for
250,000  shares  of  common  stock of the Company.  This acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of interests.


             The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>






<PAGE>

                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)




(1)          Operations  and  Significant  Accounting  Policies

MathSoft,  Inc.  (MathSoft)  was  incorporated  on  October  12, 1984.  MathSoft
develops,  markets  and  supports  software productivity tools for the technical
calculation  and  data analysis markets comprised of professionals, students and
educators.

The  accompanying  consolidated  financial statements reflect the application of
certain  accounting  policies  as  described  in  this note and elsewhere in the
consolidated  financial  statements  and  notes.

The  accompanying  consolidated  financial statements comprise those of MathSoft
and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries  Statistical  Sciences,  Inc.  (StatSci),
TriMetrix,  Inc.  and  acroScience  Corporation (collectively referred to as the
Company).    All  material  intercompany  accounts  and  transactions  have been
eliminated.

(a)          Change  In  Fiscal  Year

On  December 16, 1997, the Company's Board of Directors approved a change in the
Company's  fiscal  year.    The Company's fiscal year ends on December 31.

(b)          Revenue  Recognition

The  Company derives substantially all of its revenue from software products for
use  on  desktop  computers.  Revenue from the licensing of software products is
recognized  when  the  products  are  shipped,  as  there  are  no  significant
postdelivery  obligations,  and  the Company provides for estimated returns and
warranty  costs  at  the time of sale.  The Company offers maintenance contracts
and  training on its products.  Maintenance and training revenues are recognized
ratably  over  the term of the related contracts generally for one year or less.
Amounts  received in advance for maintenance agreements are recorded as deferred
revenue  on  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets.

(c)          Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents

Cash  and  cash  equivalents  are stated at cost, which approximates market, and
consist  of  short-term,  highly  liquid investments with original maturities of
less  than  three  months.
<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

(d)          Inventories
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


Inventories  are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market and
consist  of  the  following:


                   DECEMBER 31,      JUNE 30,
                       1997       1997     1996
<S>             <C>            <C>        <C>
Raw materials   $      44,786  $  41,648  $162,627
Finished goods        210,419    302,137   385,265
                -------------  ---------  --------

                $     255,205  $ 343,785  $547,892
                =============  =========  ========
</TABLE>


(e)          Depreciation  and  Amortization

The  Company provides for depreciation and amortization by charges to operations
on a straight-line basis, in amounts estimated to recover the cost of the assets
over  their  estimated  useful  lives  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


ASSET CLASSIFICATION             USEFUL LIVES
<S>                              <C>
Computer equipment and software        3 years
Furniture and fixtures               3-5 years
Leasehold improvements           Life of lease
<FN>

Property  and  equipment  under capital leases are amortized over the shorter of
the  estimated  useful  life  of  three  to five years or the term of the lease.
</TABLE>


(f)          Product  Development  Costs

The  Company  capitalizes  product  development  costs  subsequent  to  the
establishment  of technological and commercial feasibility, until the product is
available  for  general  release.   Costs incurred prior to the establishment of
technological  feasibility  are  charged  to  research  and development expense.
Development  costs associated with product enhancements that extend the original
product's life or significantly improve the original product's marketability are
also  capitalized  upon  technological  feasibility.    Amortization  of product
development costs begins one month after the general release over the shorter of
the  estimated  useful  life  of  the  product  or  15  months.

No  costs  have  been  capitalized  since  1995  because  costs  incurred  from
technological feasibility to general release have been immaterial.  Amortization
of  product  development costs of $488,964 for the year ended June 30, 1995, has
been included in cost of revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations.





<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

(g)          Basic  and  Diluted  Net  Income  (Loss)  per  Common  Share

In  March 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement
of  Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 128, Earnings per Share.  SFAS No.
128 establishes standards for computing and presenting earnings per share.  This
statement  is  effective  for  fiscal years ending after December 15, 1997.  Net
income  (loss)  per share has been restated for all periods presented to conform
with  SFAS  No.  128.

Basic  and  diluted  net  income  (loss)  per  share  is  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                  SIX-MONTH PERIODS ENDED                YEARS ENDED
                                       DECEMBER  31,                      JUNE  30,
                                    1997          1996         1997          1996         1995
<S>                              <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>         <C>
Net income (loss)                $1,104,585  $(1,066,580)  $(4,299,978)  $1,075,838  $(3,553,284)
                                 ==========  ============  ============  ==========  ============

Weighted average shares
    outstanding                   9,068,714    8,693,148     8,841,170    8,247,036    7,169,593 
Effect of dilutive securities,
    stock options                   875,569            -             -    1,294,544            - 
                                 ----------  ------------  ------------  ----------  ------------

Weighted average shares
outstanding assuming dilution     9,944,283    8,693,148     8,841,170    9,541,580    7,169,593 
                                 ==========  ============  ============  ==========  ============

Basic net income (loss) per
    share                        $      .11  $      (.12)  $      (.49)  $      .13  $      (.50)
                                 ==========  ============  ============  ==========  ============

Diluted net income (loss) per
     share                       $      .11  $      (.12)  $      (.49)  $      .11  $      (.50)
                                 ==========  ============  ============  ==========  ============

<FN>

The  following securities were not included in computing diluted earnings per share because their
effect  would  be  antidilutive:
</TABLE>



<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                             SIX-MONTH PERIODS ENDED            YEARS ENDED
                                   DECEMBER  31,                 JUNE  30,
<S>                               <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>
                                1997         1996        1997        1996        1995
Antidilutive securities-
Stock options                 1,996,723   2,628,974   3,001,562   1,073,824   1,922,626
                             ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Average exercise price of
antidilutive securities  $         5.10  $     2.24  $     2.33  $     8.20  $     1.86
                             ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========
</TABLE>



(h)          Postretirement  Benefits

The  Company  has  no  obligations  for  postretirement  benefits.

(i)          Foreign  Currency  Translation

Assets  and  liabilities  of the Company's foreign branch are translated to U.S.
dollars  using the exchange rate at each balance sheet date.  Income and expense
accounts  are  translated  using  an average rate of exchange during the period.
Foreign currency translation adjustments are accumulated as a separate component
of  stockholders'  equity.  The effect of aggregate transaction gains and losses
were  approximately  $75,000 and $55,000 in the six-month periods ended December
31,  1997  and  1996, respectively, and were approximately $(257,000), $(12,000)
and  $38,000  in  the  years  ended  June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

(j)          Other  Assets

In  1997,  the  Company  implemented  SFAS No. 121, Accounting for Impairment of
Long-Lived  Assets  and  for Long-Lived Assets To Be Disposed Of.  This standard
establishes  accounting standards for long-lived assets and certain identifiable
intangibles  to  be  disposed  of.  The Company reviews all long-term assets for
impairment.    Should  there  be  an impairment, the Company will write down the
asset  to  its  current  value  based  on  discounted  cash  flows.

(k)          Concentration  of  Credit  Risk

SFAS  No.  105,  Disclosure  of  Information  About  Financial Instruments with
Off-Balance-Sheet  Risk  and Financial Instruments with Concentrations of Credit
Risk,  requires  disclosure of any significant off-balance-sheet and credit risk
concentrations.  The Company's financial instruments that subject the Company to
credit  risk  consist  primarily  of  cash  and  cash  equivalents  and accounts
receivable.    The  Company maintains the majority of its cash balances with one
financial  institution.   The Company's accounts receivable are not concentrated
within  a  specific  geographic  area;  however,  one single customer represents
greater  than  10%  of  the  Company's  net  sales  (see  Note  8).




<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)


(l)          New  Accounting  Standards

In  July  1997,  the  FASB  issued SFAS No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income.
SFAS  No.  130  establishes standards for reporting and display of comprehensive
income and its components in a full set of general purpose financial statements,
in  order  to  measure  all  changes in equity of an enterprise that result from
transactions  and  other  economic  events of the period other than transactions
with  owners.  Comprehensive income, as defined by SFAS No. 130, is the total of
net  income  and  all  other  nonowner  changes  in equity.  Under SFAS No. 130,
companies  would  include  the  cumulative  total  of  comprehensive income as a
separate  component  of  its  stockholders' equity statement.  This statement is
effective  for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1997, and is applicable
on  both  an  interim  and  annual  basis.

In  July  1997,  the  FASB issued SFAS No. 131, Disclosures About Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information.  SFAS No. 131 requires certain financial and
supplementary  information  to  be  disclosed on an annual and interim basis for
each  reportable  segment  of an enterprise.  Reportable segments, as defined by
this  statement,  correspond to the way management organizes units and evaluates
performance internally, and may be based upon products, geography, legal entity,
management  structure  or  a  combination  of  these  methods.   SFAS No. 131 is
applicable  only  to  public,  for-profit  entities  and  is effective for years
beginning  after  December  15,  1997.  Unless impracticable, companies would be
required  to  restate  prior  period  information  upon  adoption.

(m)          Use  of  Estimates

The  preparation  of  these consolidated financial statements in conformity with
generally  accepted  accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and  assumptions  that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure  of  contingent  assets  and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported
period.    Actual  results  could  differ  from  those  estimates.

(n)          Financial  Instruments

SFAS  No.  107, Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments, requires
disclosure  about  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  consisting  of cash,
accounts  receivable  and  capital  leases.    The estimated fair value of these
financial  instruments  approximates  their  carrying  value in the accompanying
financial  statements.
on

(o)          Unaudited  Period

The  financial  statements  for  the  six  months  ended  December  31, 1996 are
unaudited and, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments (consisting
only  of  normal and recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of
results  for  the  period.


<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

(2)          Income  Taxes

The  Company  accounts  for  income  taxes  in  accordance  with  SFAS  No. 109,
Accounting  for  Income  Taxes.    Under  this  method,  deferred tax assets and
liabilities  are  determined  based  on  the  difference  between  the financial
statement  and  tax  bases of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax
rates.

The  components  of  domestic and foreign income (loss) before the provision for
income  taxes  are  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


            SIX  MONTH          
          PERIOD  ENDED
          DECEMBER  31,                  JUNE  30,
              1997             1997         1996         1995
<S>       <C>         <C>           <C>         <C>
Domestic      $  633,233  $(4,011,290)  $  325,215  $(2,813,334)
Foreign          489,137     (244,236)     799,623     (739,950)
              ----------  ------------  ----------  ------------

              $1,122,370  $(4,255,526)  $1,124,838  $(3,553,284)
              ==========  ============  ==========  ============
</TABLE>



The  provisions  for  income  taxes  consist  of  the  following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                      DECEMBER 31,      JUNE 30,
                         1997       1997        1996
<S>                    <C>         <C>        <C>
Current tax expense-
Federal                $ 381,000   $     -  $ 340,000 
State                     67,000         -     63,000 
Foreign                   17,785    44,452     49,000 

Deferred tax expense-
Federal                 (381,000)        -   (340,000)
State                    (67,000)        -    (63,000)
                       ----------  -------  ----------

                       $  17,785   $44,452  $  49,000 
                       ==========  =======  ==========
<FN>


<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

The  significant  components  of  the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as
follows:
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                          DECEMBER 31,            JUNE 30,
                             1997            1997          1996
<S>                       <C>           <C>           <C>
Net operating loss        $ 4,391,000   $ 4,722,000   $ 3,667,000 
    carryforward
Research and development
   credit carryforwards       448,000       576,000       552,000 
Temporary differences        (819,000)   (1,308,000)     (159,000)
                          ------------  ------------  ------------
                            4,020,000     3,990,000     4,060,000 

Valuation allowance        (4,020,000)   (3,990,000)   (4,060,000)
                          ------------  ------------  ------------

Net deferred tax asset    $         -   $         -   $         - 
                          ============  ============  ============
<FN>

Due  to  the uncertainty surrounding the realization of its deferred tax assets,
the  Company  has  recorded  a full valuation allowance against its deferred tax
assets.
</TABLE>


At December 31, 1997, the Company had available net operating loss carryforwards
of  approximately  $12,916,000  and  tax  credit  carryforwards of approximately
$448,000.    The  net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be used to
offset  future  federal  taxable  income and federal income taxes, respectively,
through  the  year ending December 31, 2012.  The Internal Revenue Code contains
provisions  that limit the net operating loss and credit carryforwards available
to  be  used  in any given year upon the occurrence of certain events, including
significant  changes  in  ownership  interests.

<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

(3)          Capital  Leases

The Company leases certain equipment under noncancelable leases expiring through
fiscal  2002.  Future minimum lease payments as of December 31, 1997 under these
arrangements  are  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                      <C>
Year ending December 31,
1998                                     $380,293
1999                                       93,100
2000                                        9,580
2001                                        9,580
2002                                        4,434
                                         --------

Total minimum lease payments              496,987

Less-Amount representing interest          49,147
                                         --------

Present value of minimum lease payments   447,840

Less-Current portion of capital leases    374,089
                                         --------

                                         $ 73,751
                                         ========
</TABLE>



<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

(4)          Commitments

In  August  1993,  the  Company  entered into a six-year operating lease for its
facility  in  Cambridge,  Massachusetts.  The lease provides for uneven payments
during  the  six-year  period.    However, rent expense is charged to operations
evenly  over  the  leased period.  The Company also has operating leases for its
Seattle  and  International  office  spaces  and  certain  office  equipment.

The  approximate  future  lease  payments  under  the  Company's operating lease
arrangements,  exclusive  of operating costs and net of sublease revenue through
October  2000,  are  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                               GROSS      SUBLEASE      NET
                             OPERATING     RENTAL    OPERATING
                               LEASES     RECEIPTS     LEASES
<S>                          <C>         <C>         <C>
Year ending December 31,
1998                         $  948,000  $(204,000)  $  744,000
1999                            702,500   (169,000)     533,500
2000                             42,000     (3,000)      39,000
2001                              2,500          -        2,500
                             ----------  ----------  ----------

Total future lease payments  $1,695,000  $(376,000)  $1,319,000
                             ==========  ==========  ==========
<FN>

Rental  expense  under the Company's operating leases was approximately $430,000
for  the  six-month  period  ended  December  31,  1997,  and  was approximately
$723,000, $707,000 and $576,000 in the years ended June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.
</TABLE>



(5)          Stockholders'  Equity

(a)          Stock  Option  Plans

The  Company adopted two stock option plans in 1987 and 1992 (the Plans) whereby
the  Board  of  Directors may grant incentive stock options (ISOs), nonqualified
stock  options,  awards  of  common  stock  and  authorizations  to  make direct
purchases  of  common  stock to eligible employees and others, as defined.  ISOs
are  granted  at  a  price not less than fair market value at the date of grant.
The  options  typically  vest  over  a  five-year  period.

<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

The  Company  has  adopted  the 1992 Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan (the
1992  Director's  Plan)  pursuant  to  which  directors  who are not officers or
employees  of  the  Company  annually  receive options to purchase shares of the
Company's common stock.  A total of 160,000 shares of common stock may be issued
under  the  1992  Director's Plan.  The exercise price of each option equals the
fair  market  value  of  the  stock  on  the  date  of  grant.   The options are
exercisable  upon  the  earlier  of one year from the date of grant or the first
annual  meeting of stockholders following the date of grant at which members of
the  Board  are  elected.

The  Board  of  Directors granted Key Officer Stock Options to members of senior
management  of  the  Company  in  1992.    The  Key  Officer  Stock  Options are
nonqualified,  nonplan  stock  options  exercisable  for an aggregate of 907,556
shares  of common stock at an exercise price of $1.08 per share, the fair market
value  of  the  common  stock on the date of grant.  Each such option expires 11
years  from  the  date  of grant, subject to earlier termination if the optionee
ceases  to  serve the Company other than by reason of death or disability.  Each
Key  Officer  Stock  Option became exercisable upon the closing of the Company's
initial  public  offering.

In  1996,  the  Company adopted the 1996 Non-Qualified, Non-Officer Stock Option
Plan  (the  1996  Non-Officer Plan) under which employees and consultants to the
Company  are  granted nonqualified options to purchase stock in the Company.  A
total of 200,000 shares of common stock may be issued under the 1996 Non-Officer
Plan.    The  vesting  of  options  granted  under the 1996 Non-Officer Plan are
determined  at the date of grant.  Each option expires 10 years from the date of
grant,  subject  to  earlier  termination  if  the  optionee ceases to serve the
Company  other  than by reason of death or disability, and are not transferable.

As  of  December  31,  1997,  a  total  of 4,698,508 shares of common stock were
reserved for issuance under the Plans, the 1992 Director's Plan, the Key Officer
Stock  Options,  and  the  1996  Non-Officer  Plan.

The  Company  accounts  for  its stock-based compensation plans under Accounting
Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.  In
October  1995,  the  FASB  issued  SFAS  No.  123,  Accounting  for  Stock-Based
Compensation.   SFAS No. 123 establishes a fair-value-based method of accounting
for stock-based compensation plans.  The Company has adopted the disclosure-only
alternative  under  SFAS No. 123 for employees, which requires disclosure of the
pro forma effects on earnings and earnings per share as if SFAS No. 123 had been
adopted, as well as certain other information.  The Company has computed the pro
forma  disclosures  required  under  SFAS  No. 123 for all stock options granted
during  fiscal  years  1996 and 1997, including the Employee Stock Purchase Plan
using  the  Black-Scholes  option pricing model prescribed by SFAS No. 123.  For
nonemployees,  SFAS  No.  123  requires that the compensation expense calculated
using  the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model be charged to the statement of
operations.    The  value of options awarded to nonemployees as determined under
SFAS  No. 123 is not material to the results of operations for both fiscal years
ended  June  30,  1997  and 1996, or for the six-month period ended December 31,
1997.


<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

The  assumptions  used  and  the  weighted  average  information are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                          SIX-MONTH     FISCAL YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,
                                         PERIOD ENDED
                                         DECEMBER 31,

                                               1997          1997          1996
<S>                                        <C>           <C>           <C>
Risk-free interest rates                    5.95%-6.61%   6.00%-6.74%   5.61%-6.74%
Expected dividend yield                    None          None          None
Expected lives                                 5 years       5 years       5 years 
Expected volatility                                 70%           70%           70%
Weighted average grant-date fair value of
   options granted during the period       $      2.50   $      1.62   $      2.35 
Weighted average remaining contractual
   life of options outstanding              2.98 years    5.10 years    5.53 years 
</TABLE>


The  effect  of  applying  SFAS  No.  123  would  be  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                         SIX-MONTH     FISCAL YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,
                                       PERIOD ENDED
                                       DECEMBER 31,

1997                                         1997         1996
<S>                                       <C>         <C>           <C>
Net income (loss) as reported             $1,104,585  $(4,299,978)  $1,075,838

Basic income (loss) per share as
reported                                         .12         (.49)         .13

Diluted net income (loss) per share as
reported                                         .11         (.49)         .11

Pro forma net income (loss)                  706,565   (4,880,616)     622,956

Pro forma basic net income (loss) per
share                                            .08         (.55)         .07

Pro forma diluted net income (loss) per
share                                            .07         (.55)         .06
<FN>

Because  the  method  prescribed by SFAS No. 123 has not been applied to options
granted  prior  to  1995,  the  resulting pro forma compensation cost may not be
representative  of  that  to  be  expected  in  the  future  years.
</TABLE>



<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

The  Company's  stock  option  activity  for  all  plans  is  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                            WEIGHTED
                                   NUMBER OF     AVERAGE
                                 SHARES     EXERCISE PRICE

<S>                               <C>         <C>
Outstanding at June 30, 1994      1,457,671   $2.84
Granted                           1,155,000    2.13
Exercised                          (145,304)   1.05
Canceled                           (544,741)   6.01
                                  ----------  -----

Outstanding at June 30, 1995      1,922,626    1.86
Granted                             961,434    5.52
Exercised                          (320,452)   1.65
Canceled                           (195,240)   5.53
                                  ----------  -----

Outstanding at June 30, 1996      2,368,368    3.03
Granted                           1,289,514    2.74
Exercised                          (148,651)   1.64
Canceled                           (507,669)   4.28
                                  ----------  -----

Outstanding at June 30, 1997      3,001,562    2.33
Granted                             110,900    3.42
Exercised                           (78,770)   1.60
Canceled                           (161,400)   2.35
                                  ----------  -----

Outstanding at December 31, 1997  2,872,292   $2.39
                                  ==========  =====

Exercisable at June 30, 1997      1,378,182   $2.04
                                  ==========  =====

Exercisable at December 31, 1997  1,593,753   $1.83
                                  ==========  =====
</TABLE>



<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

The  following  table  summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December  31,  1997:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                             OPTIONS  OUTSTANDING                    OPTIONS  EXERCISABLE
                                    WEIGHTED                               WEIGHTED
                                    AVERAGE      WEIGHTED                   AVERAGE    WEIGHTED
    RANGE OF        NUMBER OF      REMAINING     AVERAGE   NUMBER OF       REMAINING   AVERAGE
     OPTION          OPTIONS      CONTRACTUAL    OPTION     OPTIONS       CONTRACTUAL   OPTION
     PRICES        OUTSTANDING       LIFE         PRICE    EXERCISABLE       LIFE       PRICE

<S>                   <C>             <C>          <C>         <C>        <C>            <C>
 .50-     $2.00       980,990        1.87 years     1.57      882,553       1.79 years    1.52
2.25-     4.00     1,685,016        3.54           2.56      625,914       3.96          2.48
4.25-     6.00       183,000        3.67           5.34       62,000       4.56          5.64
6.13-    13.00        23,286        3.16           7.65       23,286       3.16          7.65
                   ---------                                ---------                        

 .50-$13.00         2,872,292        2.98           2.39    1,593,753       2.77          1.83
                   =========                               =========                         
</TABLE>



(b)          Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan

The  Company  has  an employee stock purchase plan pursuant to which the Company
has  reserved  and  may issue up to 200,000 shares of common stock in semiannual
offerings over a 10-year period.  Shares of common stock are sold at 85% of fair
market  value, as defined.  During the six-month period ended December 31, 1997,
the  Company  issued  23,470 shares under the Plan.  During the years ended June
30,  1997,  1996 and 1995, the Company issued 28,463, 13,065, and 14,565 shares,
respectively,  under  the  Plan.

(6)          Geographic  Data

Revenues  by  geographic area as a percentage of total revenues were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

               SIX-MONTH PERIODS 
                ENDED DECEMBER 31,     YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,
GEOGRAPHIC AREA     1997     1996       1997   1996   1995
<S>                  <C>      <C>        <C>   <C>     <C>
North America        70%      67%        68%   67%     64%
Europe               22       26         23    24      26 
Other                 8        7          9     9      10 
                    ----     ----       ----  ----    ----

                    100%     100%       100%  100%    100%
                     ====    ====       ====  ====    ====
<FN>





<PAGE>

                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

Revenues, operating income (loss) and identifiable assets for the Company's U.S.
and  international  operations  for  the three years ended June 30, 1997 and the
six-month  period  ended  December  31,  1997  are  summarized  as  follows:
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                 U.S.   INTERNATIONAL   ELIMINATIONS   CONSOLIDATED
<S>                              <C>           <C>          <C>           <C>
Year ended June 30, 1995-
Revenues from unaffiliated
     customers              $10,144,936   $5,738,290   $         -   $15,883,226 
Operating loss               (2,869,452)    (765,777)            -    (3,635,229)
Identifiable assets           6,804,596    1,218,927        79,118     8,102,641 

Year ended June 30, 1996-
Revenues from unaffiliated
     customers              $14,010,567   $6,756,131   $         -   $20,766,698 
Operating income                161,909      771,076             -       932,985 
Identifiable assets          11,467,596    2,349,923    (1,918,367)   11,899,152 

Year ended June 30, 1997-
Revenues from unaffiliated
     customers              $11,659,991   $6,017,736   $         -   $17,677,727 
Operating loss               (3,994,060)    (400,137)            -    (4,394,197)
Identifiable assets          12,179,468    1,987,444    (5,380,469)    8,786,443 

Six-Month Period Ended
December 31, 1997-
Revenues from unaffiliated
     customers              $ 9,178,311   $3,845,666   $         -   $13,023,977 
Operating income                626,621      475,366             -     1,101,987 
Identifiable assets          12,600,675    2,591,942    (5,380,467)    9,812,150 
</TABLE>







<PAGE>

                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1997

                (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Periods)

                                   (Continued)

(7)          Accrued  Expenses
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Accrued  expenses  consist  of  the  following:
                                          DECEMBER 31,         JUNE 30,
                                              1997         1997         1996
<S>                                        <C>         <C>         <C>
Accrued payroll and payroll-related items  $  403,058  $  402,715  $  827,950
Accrued bonuses                               236,262     425,000     466,939
Accrued vacation                              371,420     375,368     316,582
Accrued royalties                             183,886     146,962     281,288
Other accrued expenses                      1,013,208   1,242,487     362,455
                                           ----------  ----------  ----------

                                           $2,207,834  $2,592,532  $2,255,214
                                           ==========  ==========  ==========
</TABLE>


(8)          Significant  Customer

During  the six-month period ended December 31, 1997, one customer accounted for
12%  of  net  sales.  One customer accounted for 12% and 14% of net sales in the
years  ended  June  30,  1996 and 1997, respectively.  There were no significant
customers  in  the  year  ended  June  30,  1995.

(9)          Line  of  Credit

The  Company  has  a line of credit with a bank, collateralized by substantially
all  of  the  Company's  assets.  Borrowings are limited to the lesser of 65% of
eligible  domestic  accounts  or $1,000,000.  Interest on outstanding borrowings
under  this  line  is based on the bank's prime rate (8.5% at December 31, 1997)
plus  1%.  The  Company  had  no  outstanding  borrowings  under this line as of
December  31,  1997.  The agreement contains covenants that, among other things,
require  the  Company to meet certain profitability and maximum leverage ratios,
and  to  maintain  a  minimum  level  of tangible net worth.  The line of credit
expires  in  December  1998.

(10)          Acquisitions

In  November 1996 and 1995, the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding capital
stock  of  acroScience  Corporation  and  TriMetrix,  Inc.,  respectively,  each
business  combination  was accounted for as a pooling of interests.  As a result
of the business combinations, acroScience Corporation and TriMetrix, Inc. became
wholly  owned  subsidiaries  of  the  Company.  acroScience Corporation develops
visual  modeling  and  programming tools.  In consideration of this acquisition,
former  stockholders  of  acroScience  Corporation  received  a total of 250,000
shares of the Company's common stock.  TriMetrix, Inc. develops and manufactures
advanced  charting  and  data  analysis  software.    In  consideration  of this
acquisition,  former stockholders of TriMetrix, Inc. received a total of 219,997
shares  of  the  Company's  common stock.  For financial reporting purposes, the
periods  preceding  the acquisitions have not been restated, as the acquisitions
were  not  material.    The results of operations of acroScience Corporation and
TriMetrix,  Inc.  have been included in the consolidated operating results since
the  dates  of  the  respective  acquisitions.






<PAGE>

ITEM  9.         CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE.
Not  applicable.

<PAGE>

                                    PART III

ITEM  10.    DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS
     The  current  directors  and  executive  officers of the Corporation, their
ages,  and the positions currently held by each such person with the Corporation
are  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

NAME                       AGE    POSITION
- ----          ---          --------

<S>                        <C>  <C>
Richard A. D'Amore*(1)(2)  44     Director
Charles J. Digate          44     Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer
Charles H. Federman(2)     41     Director
Robert P. Orlando          39     Vice President Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Clerk
Steven R. Vana-Paxhia      50     Director
June L. Rokoff(1)          48     Director

<FN>

*Mr.  D'Amore  retired  from  the  Board  of  Directors  in  February  1998.
(1)  Member  of  the  Compensation  Committee
(2)  Member  of  the  Audit  Committee
</TABLE>


     In  accordance  with  the  Corporation's  Third  Restated  Articles  of
Organization, the Corporation's Board of Directors is divided into three classes
each  of  which  holds office for a three year term. Officers of the Corporation
are  elected  by,  and  serve  at  the  discretion  of,  the Board of Directors.

Charles  J.  Digate.  Mr. Digate has been a director and an executive officer of
the  Corporation since September 1994.  Mr. Digate's term as a Class II Director
will  expire  as of the date of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held in
calendar  year  2000.    Mr. Digate founded Beyond Incorporated, a developer and
publisher  of  enterprise messaging systems, in 1988 and served as its Chairman,
Chief  Executive  Officer  and  President  until  February  1994 when Beyond was
acquired.  Prior  to  founding  Beyond, Mr. Digate spent more than four years at
Lotus  Development  Corp.,  where  his  posts  included  Senior  Vice President,
Analytical  Software  Products  and Vice-President, International Operations and
Corporate  Marketing.  Mr. Digate also served approximately seven years at Texas
Instruments,  primarily focusing on its consumer electronics products, including
calculators  and  home  computers.  He also serves on the board of two privately
held  software  companies,  Centra  Software  and  Network  Integrity.

June  L.  Rokoff.  Ms. Rokoff has been a director of the Corporation since 1994.
Ms.  Rokoff's  term  as  a  Class  II Director will expire as of the date of the
Annual  Meeting of Stockholders to be held in calendar year 2000.  Ms. Rokoff is
also  a  director  of  NewsEDGE  Corporation,  a  public  company  that provides
customized real-time news and information. Until December 1995, Ms. Rokoff was a
Senior  Vice  President,  Worldwide  Services Group, at Lotus Development Corp.,
where she had spent ten years in management. Lotus, a wholly owned subsidiary of
International  Business Machines, is a provider of software and support services
for  businesses  and  individuals.  Prior management positions at Lotus included
Senior  Vice  President,  Development,  Vice President, Graphics and Information
Management  Division,  and  General  Manager,  Lotus  1-2-3  Release  3.
<PAGE>
Richard  A.  D'Amore.    Mr. D'Amore retired as a director of the Corporation in
February  1998.  Mr. D'Amore had been a director since October 1987. Mr. D'Amore
has  been  a  general  partner  of various venture capital funds affiliated with
Hambro  International  Venture  Funds since 1982 and is currently also a general
partner  of  the venture capital fund North Bridge Venture Partners. Mr. D'Amore
is  also  a  director  of  Solectron  Corporation,  a  provider  of  customized
manufacturing  services  to  original equipment manufacturers in the electronics
industry,  Veeco  Instruments,  Inc.,  a  designer, manufacturer and servicer of
precision ion beam etching and surface measurement systems, and Xionics Document
Technologies,  a  manufacturer  of  computer  hardware and software for personal
computer  document  image  processing.

Charles H. Federman.  Mr. Federman has been a director since December 1994.  Mr.
Federman's  term  as  a  Class  I  Director expires as of the date of the Annual
Meeting  of  Stockholders to be held in calendar year 1999.  Mr. Federman is the
Managing Director of BMR Group, a private investment firm.  Mr. Federman is also
a director of Logic Works, Inc., SQRibe Technologies, Inc., Phoenix Technologies
Ltd.,  International  Micro  Software, Inc. and Backweb Technologies, Inc. Logic
Works,  Inc.  develops  and publishes computer aided software engineering (CASE)
software.  SQRibe Technologies, Inc. develops off-the-shelf database enhancement
and  optimization tools. Phoenix Technologies Ltd. designs, develops and markets
systems software compatibility products for personal computers, workstations and
peripheral  devices.   International Micro Software, Inc. develops and publishes
PC  based  productivity  applications.    Backweb  Technologies,  Inc.  develops
intranet  software  tools.

     Steven  R.  Vana-Paxhia.    Mr.  Vana-Paxhia has been a director since July
1996.   Mr. Vana-Paxhia's term as a Class III Director expires as of the date of
the  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders  to  be  held in calendar year 1998.  Mr.
Vana-Paxhia  has  been  the  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of  Inso
Corporation  since  the time of its initial public offering in March 1994.  Inso
Corporation  provides  multilingual  software  products  to software developers,
leading  corporations and consumers across all industries.  Inso Corporation was
formerly  the  Software Division of Houghton Mifflin Corporation.  From November
1990  to March 1994, Mr. Vana-Paxhia was Vice President of the Software Division
of  Houghton  Mifflin  Corporation.    Mr.  Vana-Paxhia  is  also  a director of
Spyglass,  Inc.,  a  developer  of  internet  enabling  technologies.

     Robert  P. Orlando.  Mr. Orlando joined the Corporation in December 1991 as
Vice  President  Finance  and Administration and Chief Financial Officer. He was
named  Treasurer  in November, 1994. From May 1987 to November 1991, Mr. Orlando
was  employed by Bitstream, Inc., most recently as Vice President of Finance and
Treasurer.  Before  that he served as Controller of Unicco Service Co. from 1986
to  1987,  as General Accounting Manager of Orion Research from 1985 to 1986 and
as  a  certified  public  accountant with Arthur Andersen LLP from 1980 to 1985.



<PAGE>
SECTION  16(A)  BENEFICIAL  OWNERSHIP  REPORTING  COMPLIANCE

     Section  16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, requires
the  Corporation's  officers  and  directors,  and persons who own more than ten
percent  of  a  registered class of the Corporation's equity securities, to file
reports  of  ownership and changes in ownership with the Securities and Exchange
Commission  and  The  Nasdaq  Stock  Market.    Officers,  directors  and
greater-than-ten  percent  stockholders  are required by Securities and Exchange
Commission  regulations  to furnish the Corporation with all Section 16(a) forms
they  file.

     Based solely on its review of the copies of such forms received by it, the
Corporation  believes  that  during  the  Transition Period all of its officers,
directors  and  greater-than-ten  percent stockholders complied with all Section
16(a)  filing requirements with the following exception:  Mr. Meshberg filed one
report  late  which  reported  two  transactions.




ITEM  11.    EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION

COMPENSATION  OF  DIRECTORS

Each non-employee director of the Corporation is entitled to participate in the
Corporation's  1992  Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (the "Director
Plan").  The Director Plan authorizes the grant of stock options only to members
of  the  Corporation's Board of Directors who are neither employees nor officers
of  the Corporation. Under the Director Plan, each non-employee director who has
served  as  a  member of the Board for at least one year on February 3rd of each
year receives automatically, on such date, an option to purchase 5,000 shares of
Common  Stock  at  an exercise price equal to 100% of the fair market value of a
share  of  Common  Stock on such date. Each non-employee director who has served
for less than an entire year on February 3rd receives automatically an option to
purchase the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of full months
he  has  served on the Board during the prior year, divided by 12 and multiplied
by 5,000.  In addition, each non-employee director first elected to the Board of
Directors  after  February 3, 1993 will receive automatically on the date of his
or  her  election an option to purchase 20,000 shares of the Common Stock of the
Corporation  at  an  exercise  price equal to 100% of the fair market value of a
share  of  Common  Stock on such date. Currently, the number of shares of Common
Stock  authorized  for  issuance  under  the Director Plan is 160,000 shares, of
which  119,334  shares  were  outstanding  as  of  March  23,  1998.


     Options  granted  under  the  Director Plan may not be exercised until they
become  vested.  Each option granted under the Director Plan becomes exercisable
in  one  installment on the earlier of: (i) the first anniversary of the date of
grant;  or  (ii)  the first Annual Meeting of Stockholders following the date of
grant  at which members of the Board of Directors are elected, provided that the
optionee  has  continuously served as a member of the Board of Directors through
such  date.  Options granted under the Director Plan expire on the date which is
ten  years  from  the  date  of  the  option  grant.

SUMMARY  COMPENSATION  TABLE

     The  following  table  sets  forth  certain information with respect to the
annual  compensation paid or accrued by the Corporation for services rendered to
the Corporation, in all capacities, for the Transition Period and for the fiscal
years  ended  June  30, 1997 and 1996 by its Chief Executive Officer (the "CEO")
and  the  other  most  highly  compensated executive officer other than the CEO,
whose  total  salary and bonus exceeded $100,000 (collectively with the CEO, the
"Named  Executive Officers"). The Corporation did not grant any restricted stock
awards or stock appreciation rights or make any long-term incentive plan payouts
during  the  Transition Period or the fiscal years ended June 30, 1997 and 1996.
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                           SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE
                                           LONG-TERM
                                          COMPENSATION
                                          ------------

                                       ANNUAL COMPENSATION(1)             AWARDS
                                        ----------------------            ------
                                                                       SECURITIES
                                                                        UNDERLYING
NAME AND PRINCIPAL POSITION           YEAR     SALARY     BONUS(2)    OPTIONS/SARS(#)
- ---------------------------     ----     ------     --------          ---------------

<S>                                 <C>      <C>       <C>       <C>
Charles J. Digate                     1997(3)  $125,000  $ 50,000             0
   Chairman of the Board of           1997      250,000         0       100,000
   Directors, President and Chief     1996      250,000   100,000        75,000
   Executive Officer
Robert P. Orlando                     1997(3)  $ 64,000  $ 20,000             0
   Vice President Finance and         1997      128,000     8,000        30,000
   Administration, Chief Financial    1996      125,000    35,000        35,000
   Officer, Treasurer and Clerk


<FN>

__________
(1)      Excludes perquisites and other personal benefits, if any, the aggregate
annual  amount  of which for each officer was less than the lesser of $50,000 or
10%  of  the  total of annual salary and bonus reported. The Corporation did not
grant  any restricted stock awards or stock appreciation rights or make any long
term  incentive  plan  payouts  during the Transition Period or the fiscal years
ended  June  30,  1997  or  1996.

(2)          Bonuses are reported in the year earned, even if actually paid in a
subsequent  year.

(3)     The Corporation changed its fiscal year end from June 30 to December 31.
Therefore,  the  footnoted  period  represents  compensation  earned  during the
Transition  Period.
</TABLE>



<PAGE>
OPTIONS/SAR  GRANTS  TABLE

     There  were  no grants of stock options or SARs made to the Named Executive
Officers  during  the  Transition  Period.

OPTION  EXERCISES  AND  FISCAL  YEAR  END  VALUES

     Shown  below  is  information  with  respect  to  options  to  purchase the
Corporation's  Common  Stock  granted  under  the  Corporation's  stock  plans,
including:  (i)  the number of shares of Common Stock purchased upon exercise of
options  in  the  Transition  Period;  (ii)  the  net  value  realized upon such
exercise;  (iii)  the  number of unexercised options outstanding at December 31,
1997;  and  (iv)  the  value  of  such unexercised options at December 31, 1997.

<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                AGGREGATED  OPTION  /  SAR  EXERCISES  IN  TRANSITION  PERIOD  AND
                              DECEMBER 31, 1997 OPTION / SAR VALUES
 
                  SHARES                     NUMBER OF SECURITIES            VALUE OF UNEXERCISED
                 ACQUIRED                   UNDERLYING UNEXERCISED        IN-THE-MONEY OPTIONS/SARS
                    ON        VALUE    OPTIONS/SARS AT DECEMBER 31, 1997    AT DECEMBER 31,1997(2)
                                       ---------------------------------------------------------------
NAME             EXERCISE    REALIZED(1)  (EXERCISABLE) (UNEXERCISABLE)  (EXERCISABLE) (UNEXERCISABLE)
               -----------  -------------  ------------  --------------  -------------  --------------

<S>                <C>     <C>      <C>      <C>         <C>       <C>
Charles J. Digate       0       $     0     554,064         245,936        $494,922        $73,828
Robert P. Orlando  30,000        67,500      23,486          54,800          10,375         11,200

<FN>

(1)          Amounts  disclosed  in  this column do not reflect amounts actually
received  by  the  Named  Executive  Officers  but  are  calculated based on the
difference between the fair market value of Common Stock on the date of exercise
and  exercise  price  of the options. Named Executive Officers will receive cash
only  if and when they sell the Common Stock issued upon exercise of the options
and the amount of cash, if any, received by such individuals is dependent on the
price  of  the  Corporation's  Common  Stock  at  the  time  of  such  sale.

(2)       Value is based on the difference between the option exercise price and
the  fair  market  value  at December 31, 1997, the end of the Transition Period
($2.75  per  share),  multiplied  by the number of shares underlying the option.
</TABLE>

EMPLOYMENT  AGREEMENTS  AND  CHANGE-IN-CONTROL  ARRANGEMENTS

     The  Corporation  has  entered  into an executive agreement (the "Executive
Agreement")  with  Charles  J.  Digate,  the  Corporation's  President and Chief
Executive Officer.  Pursuant to the Executive Agreement, Mr. Digate will receive
a  base salary of $250,000 for the twelve months ended June 30, 1998 and a bonus
of  up  to  $100,000  for  the  twelve  months  ended June 30, 1998 based on the
Corporation's  achievement  of  a  net  income  plan  approved  by  the Board of
Directors,  plus  additional  bonus  payments based on specific objectives to be
agreed  upon  between  Mr.  Digate  and  the  Board  from  time  to  time.

     If  the Corporation terminates Mr. Digate's employment without cause, or if
Mr.  Digate  terminates  his  employment  following  a  change of control of the
Corporation  for  certain  specified  reasons, Mr. Digate will receive severance
benefits  for  eighteen  months  after such termination equal to his base salary
immediately  prior to his termination.  Any options held by Mr. Digate which are
then  exercisable  and  unexpired may be exercised for three years following the
later  of (i) the termination of his employment or (ii) the date he ceases to be
a member of the Corporation's Board of Directors.  In addition, upon a change of
control  of  the  Corporation,  fifty  percent  (50%)  of  the unexercisable and
unexpired  stock  options  held  by  Mr.  Digate  will  become  exercisable.

     The Corporation has also entered into an option acceleration agreement with
Mr.  Orlando  (the  "Option  Acceleration  Agreement").  The Option Acceleration
Agreement provides that (i) upon a change of control, the Corporation will cause
fifty  percent  (50%)  of  any  unexercisable,  unexpired  installments of stock
options  held by Mr. Orlando on the change of control to become exercisable, and
(ii)  the  Corporation  shall  extend  the period within which any option may be
exercised  by  Mr.  Orlando  after  the  termination of his employment to twelve
months.
<PAGE>
COMPENSATION  COMMITTEE  INTERLOCKS  AND  INSIDER  PARTICIPATION

     During  the  Transition  Period,  Mr.  D'Amore and Ms. Rokoff served on the
Compensation  Committee.  No  person  who served as a member of the Compensation
Committee  was,  during  the  Transition  Period, an officer or employee of the
Corporation  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries,  was  formerly  an  officer  of the
Corporation  or  any  of  its  subsidiaries,  or  had any relationship requiring
disclosure  herein.   No executive officer of the Corporation served as a member
of  the  Compensation  Committee (or other Board committee performing equivalent
functions  or,  in  the  absence  of  any  such  committee,  the entire Board of
Directors)  of  another  entity,  one  of  whose  executive officers served as a
director  of  the  Corporation.


ITEM  12.    SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF  CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The  following table  sets  forth  as  of March  23,  1998 (unless otherwise
indicated):  (i)  the  name  of  each  person  who,  to  the  knowledge  of  the
Corporation,  owned  beneficially  more than 5% of the shares of Common Stock of
the  Corporation outstanding at such date; (ii) the name of each director; (iii)
the  name  of  each  Named Executive Officer; (iv) the number of shares owned by
each  of  such  persons;  and  (v)  the  percentage  of  the  outstanding shares
represented  thereby,  and  also  sets  forth  such  information for all current
directors  and  executive  officers  as  a  group.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                AMOUNT AND NATURE
  NAME AND ADDRESS OF BENEFICIAL OWNER            OF OWNERSHIP(1)     PERCENT OF CLASS
  ------------------------------------            ---------------     ----------------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>
Charles J. Digate**(2)                                   769,099          7.9%
Charles H. Federman(3)                                    40,417            * 
  c/o BMR Group
  One Parker Plaza, Suite 1500
  Fort Lee, NJ 07024
Samuel P. Meshberg and certain affiliates(4)           1,265,500         13.8%
  c/o Financial Management Investment Services, Inc.
  118 Burr Court
  Bridgeport, CT 06605
Robert P. Orlando**(5)                                    74,986            * 
June L. Rokoff**(6)                                       46,693            * 
Steven R. Vana-Paxhia(7)                                  22,500            * 
  c/o Inso Corporation
  31 St. James Avenue
  Boston, MA 02116
All directors and executive officers as a group          953,695         10.0%
(5 persons) (8)

<FN>
    *          Less  than  1%

   **          c/o  MathSoft,  Inc.,  101  Main  Street,  Cambridge,  MA  02142.
<PAGE>
(1)         Except as otherwise noted, to the knowledge of the Corporation, each
person  named  in the table has sole voting and investment power with respect to
their  shares  of  Common  Stock,  except  to  the extent authority is shared by
spouses  under  applicable  law.

(2)      Includes 599,375 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock
options  exercisable  on  March  23,  1998  or  within  60  days  thereafter.

(3)       Includes 30,417 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock
options  exercisable  on  March  23,  1998  or  within  60  days  thereafter.

(4)       Includes 3,000 shares owned by Ron Meshberg and Mr. Meshberg disclaims
beneficial  ownership  of  such  shares.

(5)       Includes 34,986 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock
options  exercisable  on  March  23,  1998  or  within  60  days  thereafter.

(6)       Includes 30,417 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock
options  exercisable  on  March 23, 1998 or within 60 days thereafter. Includes
1,000  shares  owned by David Rokoff, spouse of Ms. Rokoff, as custodian for Sam
Rokoff,  a  minor child of Ms. Rokoff. Ms. Rokoff disclaims beneficial ownership
of  these  1,000  shares.

(7)          Includes  22,500 shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options
exercisable  on  March  23,  1998  or  within  60  days  thereafter.

(8)      Includes 758,695 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock
options  exercisable  on  March  23,  1998  or  within  60  days  thereafter.
</TABLE>



ITEM  13.    CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS

     The  Corporation  has  adopted  a  policy that all transactions between the
Corporation  and  its  officers,  directors,  principal  stockholders  and their
affiliates  be  on  terms  no  less  favorable  to the Corporation than could be
obtained  from unrelated third parties and must be approved by a majority of the
non-employee  independent  and  disinterested  directors.



<PAGE>
                                     PART IV

ITEM  14.  EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL  STATEMENT  SCHEDULES,  AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a)      The  following  documents  are filed as a part of this report:

          1.  Financial Statements.  The following consolidated financial
              --------------------
              statements  of  the Company and Independent Auditors Report are
              filed as part of this report.

          Report  of  Independent  Public  Accountants.

          Consolidated  Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and June
          30,  1997  and  1996.

          Consolidated  Statements  of  Operations  for  the  six  months  ended
          December  31, 1997 and 1996 and the twelve months ended June 30, 1997,
          1996 and 1995.

          Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity for the six months
          ended December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the twelve months ended 
          June 30, 1997,1996 and 1995.

          Consolidated  Statements  of  Cash  Flows  for  the  six  months ended
          December  31,  1997 and 1996 and the twelve months ended 
          June 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

          Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.

          2.  Financial  Statement  Schedules.   The following financial
            -------------------------------
          statement  schedule  is  filed  as  part  of  this  report and should
          be read in conjunction  with  the  consolidated  financial  statements
          of  the  Company.

          Schedule  II          Valuation  and  Qualifying  Accounts

          All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
          required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements
          or notes thereto.

          3.          Exhibits.
                      --------
2.1          Asset  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  as  of  June 30, 1993 among the
Registrant,  Statistical  Sciences,  Inc.,  a  Washington  corporation,  and the
Stockholders  listed  on  Schedule  I  thereto  (filed  as  Exhibit  2.1  to the
Registrant's  Current  Report  on  Form 8-K dated June 30, 1993 and incorporated
herein  by  reference).

3.1     Third Restated Articles of Organization of the Company (filed as Exhibit
3.2  to  Registration  Statement  number  33-55658  on Form S-1 and incorporated
herein  by  reference).

3.2         Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to
Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

4.1     Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock (filed as Exhibit 4.1
to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

4.2 Please  refer  to  Article  VI  of  Exhibit  3.1.

10.1          Amended  and  Restated  1992  Stock Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.2          1987  Combination Stock Plan, as amended (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).
<PAGE>
10.3        Form of Key Officer Stock Option Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.4          1992  Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit 10.4 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.5      1992 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.6     Lease dated August 12, 1988, as amended to date, between Registrant and
Jonathan G. Davis, Trustee of the Broadway/Hampshire Development Trust (filed as
Exhibit  10.6  to  Registration  Statement  number  33-55658  on  Form  S-1  and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.7     Third Party Software Distribution Agreement, dated January 30, 1989, as
amended,  between  the Company, University of Waterloo, Waterloo Maple Software,
Inc.  et al. (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on
Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.8          Commitment  Letter, dated August 28, 1992, between the Company and
Silicon  Valley  Bank  (filed  as  Exhibit 10.8 to Registration Statement number
33-55658  on  Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.9          Third Schedule to the Series C Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement,
dated  as  of  June  29,  1989, among the Company and the Investors named in the
First  Schedule  Annexed  Thereto,  regarding  certain  registration  rights and
related matters (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to Registration Statement number 33-55658
on  Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.10     Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 18, 1987, between the Company
and  Micro  D, Inc., a predecessor to Ingram Micro, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.10
to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.11     Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint Venture and MathSoft, Inc.,
dated  as  of  August  17, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Annual Report on Form
10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  June  30,  1993,  file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.12     Lease Agreement with the Bartell Drug Co. (Landlord), dated as of June
22, 1990, together with Addendum Nos. A, B, C & D of even date and as amended by
Addendum  No.  E dated December 9, 1992 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Annual Report
on  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.13          Software  License  Agreement  with American Telephone & Telegraph
Company,  effective  as of April 1, 1991, as amended February 18, 1993 (filed as
Exhibit  10.13  to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1993,  file  number  0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).*

10.14     Distributor Agreement with Mathematical Systems Institute, Inc., dated
August  24,  1990  (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Annual Report of Form 10-K for the
fiscal  year  ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein
by  reference).

10.15          Distributorship  Agreement  dated as of March 1, 1994 between the
Company and 766884 Ontario Inc., carrying on business as Waterloo Maple Software
(filed  as Exhibit 10.15 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
ended  March  31,  1994,  file  number  0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by
reference).*

10.16      Perpetual Technology License dated as of March 1, 1994, as amended by
Addendum  No.  1  thereto  dated  as  of March 25, 1994, between the Company and
766884  Ontario  Inc., carrying on business as Waterloo Maple Software (filed as
Exhibit  10.16  to  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
March  31,  1994,  file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10.17      Line of Credit Agreement, dated January 11, 1996, between the Company
and  Fleet  Bank  of Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1996, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).
<PAGE>
10.18          Consulting Agreement dated March 26, 1996 between the Company and
Allen  M.  Razdow  (filed as Exhibit 10.18 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal  year  ended June 30, 1996, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein
by  reference).

10.19          Software  License Agreement, dated February 18, 1996, between the
Company  and Lucent Technologies Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report
on  Form  10-Q  for  the  fiscal  quarter  ended  December 31, 1996, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).*

10.20         Amendment to Software License Agreement, dated September 25, 1997,
between  the  Company  and  Lucent  Technologies  Inc.*

10.21        Executive Agreement, dated as of July 28, 1997, between the Company
and  Charles  J.  Digate  (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q  for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1997, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).#

10.22     Option Acceleration Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1997, between
the Company and Robert P. Orlando (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report
on  Form  10-Q  for  the  fiscal  quarter  ended September 30, 1997, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).#

21.1 Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant.

23.1          Consent  of  Arthur  Andersen  LLP

*  Confidential  treatment  as  to  portions of the filed exhibit was previously
granted.

# Management contract or compensatory arrangement required to be filed pursuant
to  Item  14(c)  of  Form  10-K

(b)  Reports  on  Form  8-K.
       The Company filed a current Report on Form 8-K dated October 9, 1997 
       Reporting fiscal 1998 first quarter results.
       The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 17, 1997 
       Reporting the  change of  the  Company's  fiscal  year  end  from June 30
       To December 31.


<PAGE>



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its  behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.

     MATHSOFT,  INC.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>             <C>
March 30, 1998       By: /s/ Charles J. Digate
                     -----------------------------------------------
                     Charles J. Digate
                     Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
</TABLE>


     Pursuant  to  the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by  the  following  persons  on  behalf of the
registrant  and  in  the  capacities  and  on  the  dates  indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>             <C>

March 30, 1998       /s/ Charles H. Federman
                     -----------------------------------------------
                    Charles H. Federman
                    Director


March 30, 1998      /s/ Robert P. Orlando
                     -----------------------------------------------
                    Robert P. Orlando
                    Vice President Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Clerk
                    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

March 30, 1998     /s/ June L. Rokoff
                    ------------------------------------------------
                   June L. Rokoff
                   Director

March 30, 1998     /s/ Steven R. Vana-Paxhia
                    ------------------------------------------------
                   Steven R. Vana-Paxhia
                   Director


</TABLE>



<PAGE>

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


EXHIBIT  NO.          DESCRIPTION
2.1          Asset  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  as  of  June 30, 1993 among the
Registrant,  Statistical  Sciences,  Inc.,  a  Washington  corporation,  and the
Stockholders  listed  on  Schedule  I  thereto  (filed  as  Exhibit  2.1  to the
Registrant's  Current  Report  on  Form 8-K dated June 30, 1993 and incorporated
herein  by  reference).

3.1 Third Restated Articles of Organization of the Company (filed as Exhibit

3.2  to  Registration  Statement  number  33-55658  on Form S-1 and incorporated
herein  by  reference).

3.2         Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to
Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

4.1     Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock (filed as Exhibit 4.1
to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

4.2 Please  refer  to  Article  VI  of  Exhibit  3.1.

10.1          Amended  and  Restated  1992  Stock Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.2          1987  Combination Stock Plan, as amended (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.3        Form of Key Officer Stock Option Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.4          1992  Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit 10.4 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.5      1992 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.6     Lease dated August 12, 1988, as amended to date, between Registrant and
Jonathan G. Davis, Trustee of the Broadway/Hampshire Development Trust (filed as
Exhibit  10.6  to  Registration  Statement  number  33-55658  on  Form  S-1  and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.7     Third Party Software Distribution Agreement, dated January 30, 1989, as
amended,  between  the Company, University of Waterloo, Waterloo Maple Software,
Inc.  et al. (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on
Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.8          Commitment  Letter, dated August 28, 1992, between the Company and
Silicon  Valley  Bank  (filed  as  Exhibit 10.8 to Registration Statement number
33-55658  on  Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.9          Third Schedule to the Series C Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement,
dated  as  of  June  29,  1989, among the Company and the Investors named in the
First  Schedule  Annexed  Thereto,  regarding  certain  registration  rights and
related matters (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to Registration Statement number 33-55658
on  Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.10     Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 18, 1987, between the Company
and  Micro  D, Inc., a predecessor to Ingram Micro, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.10
to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).
                                       

<PAGE>
EXHIBIT  NO.          DESCRIPTION
10.11     Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint Venture and MathSoft, Inc.,
dated  as  of  August  17, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Annual Report on Form
10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  June  30,  1993,  file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.12     Lease Agreement with the Bartell Drug Co. (Landlord), dated as of June
22, 1990, together with Addendum Nos. A, B, C & D of even date and as amended by
Addendum  No.  E dated December 9, 1992 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Annual Report
on  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.13          Software  License  Agreement  with American Telephone & Telegraph
Company,  effective  as of April 1, 1991, as amended February 18, 1993 (filed as
Exhibit  10.13  to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1993,  file  number  0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).*
10.14     Distributor Agreement with Mathematical Systems Institute, Inc., dated
August  24,  1990  (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal  year  ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein
by  reference).

10.15          Distributorship  Agreement  dated as of March 1, 1994 between the
Company and 766884 Ontario Inc., carrying on business as Waterloo Maple Software
(filed  as Exhibit 10.15 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
ended  March  31,  1994,  file  number  0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by
reference).*

10.16      Perpetual Technology License dated as of March 1, 1994, as amended by
Addendum  No.  1  thereto  dated  as  of March 25, 1994, between the Company and
766884  Ontario  Inc., carrying on business as Waterloo Maple Software (filed as
Exhibit  10.16  to  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
March  31,  1994,  file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10.17      Line of Credit Agreement, dated January 11, 1996, between the Company
and  Fleet  Bank  of Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1996, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

<PAGE>
10.18          Consulting Agreement dated March 26, 1996 between the Company and
Allen  M.  Razdow  (filed as Exhibit 10.18 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal  year  ended June 30, 1996, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein
by  reference).

10.19          Software  License Agreement, dated February 18, 1996, between the
Company  and Lucent Technologies Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report
on  Form  10-Q  for  the  fiscal  quarter  ended  December 31, 1996, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).*

10.20         Amendment to Software License Agreement, dated September 25, 1997,
between  the  Company  and  Lucent  Technologies  Inc.*

10.21        Executive Agreement, dated as of July 28, 1997, between the Company
and  Charles  J.  Digate  (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q  for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1997, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.22     Option Acceleration Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1997, between
the Company and Robert P. Orlando (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report
on  Form  10-Q  for  the  fiscal  quarter  ended September 30, 1997, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

21.1 Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant.

23.1          Consent  of  Arthur  Andersen  LLP

*  Confidential  treatment  as  to  portions of the filed exhibit was previously
granted.

<PAGE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

          Exhibit  21.1
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SUBSIDIARIES




STATISTICAL  SCIENCES.  INC.
(A  MASSACHUSETTS  CORPORATION)


TRIMETRIX,  INC.
(A  WASHINGTON  CORPORATION)


ACROSCIENCE  CORPORATION
(A  WASHINGTON  CORPORATION)
<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
<TEXT>


                                                                   Exhibit 23.1






                    Consent of Independent Public Accountants



As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation of our
reports  included  in  this  Form  10-K,  into  the  Company's  previously filed
Registration  Statement  File  Nos.  33-58560,  33-74848,  33-72162,  33-94466,
33-87542,  33-99618,  33-99620,  333-165005, 333-18245, 333-19513 and 333-43833.



   /s/ Arthur  Andersen  LLP



Boston,  Massachusetts
March  30,  1998
<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1
<CURRENCY> U.S. DOLLARS
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1997
<PERIOD-START>                             JUL-01-1997
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1997
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                       4,133,541
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                3,472,334
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                    255,205
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             8,094,794
<PP&E>                                       6,864,945
<DEPRECIATION>                               5,315,979
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               9,812,150
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                        6,224,794
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                        91,086
<OTHER-SE>                                   3,404,237
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 9,812,150
<SALES>                                     11,145,569
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                            13,023,977
<CGS>                                        1,817,283
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                2,518,716
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                             9,403,275
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              29,270
<INCOME-PRETAX>                              1,122,369
<INCOME-TAX>                                    17,785
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                          1,104,584
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                 1,104,584
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                      .12
<EPS-DILUTED>                                      .11
        

<PAGE>


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.2
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1
<CURRENCY> U.S. DOLLARS
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUN-30-1997
<PERIOD-START>                             JUL-01-1996
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1997
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                       2,802,389
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                3,237,812
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                    343,785
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             6,859,511
<PP&E>                                       6,441,234
<DEPRECIATION>                               4,888,216
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               8,786,443
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                        6,402,750
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                        90,064
<OTHER-SE>                                   2,078,062
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 8,786,443
<SALES>                                     15,179,191
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                            17,677,727
<CGS>                                        3,124,158
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                3,945,939
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                            18,125,985
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              14,440
<INCOME-PRETAX>                            (4,225,526)
<INCOME-TAX>                                    44,452
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                        (4,299,978)
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                               (4,299,978)
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                    (.49)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                    (.49)
        

<PAGE>


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.3
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1
<CURRENCY> U.S. DOLLARS
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUN-30-1996
<PERIOD-START>                             JUL-01-1995
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1996
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                       4,954,416
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                3,881,568
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                    547,982
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             9,765,514
<PP&E>                                       5,642,660
<DEPRECIATION>                               4,044,072
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                              11,899,152
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                       56,077,238
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                        85,793
<OTHER-SE>                                   6,672,903
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                11,899,152
<SALES>                                     18,155,650
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                            20,766,698
<CGS>                                        3,061,762
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                4,000,358
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                            15,833,355
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                               7,196
<INCOME-PRETAX>                              1,124,838
<INCOME-TAX>                                    17,785
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                          1,075,838
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                 1,075,838
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                      .13
<EPS-DILUTED>                                      .11
        

<PAGE>


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.4
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1
<CURRENCY> U.S. DOLLARS
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUN-30-1995
<PERIOD-START>                             JUL-01-1994
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-30-1995
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                       3,486,329
<SECURITIES>                                   448,618
<RECEIVABLES>                                1,563,579
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                    296,564
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             5,995,830
<PP&E>                                       4,434,547
<DEPRECIATION>                               3,090,547
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               8,102,641
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                        5,378,436
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                        72,731
<OTHER-SE>                                   2,550,870
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 8,102,641
<SALES>                                     13,751,456
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                            15,883,226
<CGS>                                        3,286,577
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                4,064,241
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                            15,454,214
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              26,427
<INCOME-PRETAX>                            (3,553,284)
<INCOME-TAX>                                         0
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                        (3,553,284)
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                               (3,553,284)
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                    (.50)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                    (.50)
        

<PAGE>


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>SCHEDULE I REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>


S-1

                    Report of Independent Public Accountants



To  MathSoft,  Inc.:

We  have  audited  in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, the
financial  statements  of  MathSoft, Inc. and subsidiaries included in this Form
10-K,  and have issued our report thereon dated February 9, 1998.  Our audit was
made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole.
The  schedule  listed in Item 14(a)(2) of the index is the responsibility of the
Company's  management  and  is  presented  for  purposes  of  complying with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission's  rules  and  is  not  part  of the basic
financial  statements.    This  schedule  has  been  subjected  to  the auditing
procedures  applied  in  the audit of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states, in all material respects, the financial data required to
be  set  forth  therein in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole.



   /s/ Arthur  Andersen  LLP




Boston,  Massachusetts
February  9,  1998
<PAGE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.2
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
<TEXT>



                                       S-2
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                           Valuation and Qualifying Accounts



                                           BALANCE,     CHARGED TO              BALANCE,
                                          BEGINNING OF  COSTS AND                END OF
                                             PERIOD     EXPENSES    DEDUCTIONS   PERIOD

<S>                                        <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>
Year Ended June 30 1995:
  Allowance for doubtful accounts            $  892,781  $  108,206  $490,665  $  510,322
  Allowance for sales returns                   300,106     519,091   282,555     536,642
                                             ----------  ----------  --------  ----------

     Total reserve for accounts receivable   $1,192,887  $  627,297  $773,220  $1,046,964
                                             ==========  ==========  ========  ==========

Year Ended June 30, 1996:
  Allowance for doubtful accounts            $  510,322  $   73,573  $207,161  $  376,734
  Allowance for sales returns                   536,642     348,549   486,247     398,944
                                             ----------  ----------  --------  ----------

     Total reserve for accounts receivable  $1,046,964  $  422,122  $693,408  $  775,678
                                             ==========  ==========  ========  ==========

Year Ended June 30, 1997:
  Allowance for doubtful accounts            $  376,734  $   83,297  $ 49,206  $  410,825
  Allowance for sales returns                   398,944   1,306,858   396,771   1,309,031
                                             ----------  ----------  --------  ----------

     Total reserve for accounts receivable   $  775,678  $1,390,155  $445,977  $1,719,856
                                             ==========  ==========  ========  ==========

Six-Month Period Ended December 31, 1997:
  Allowance for doubtful accounts            $  410,825  $   56,660  $  7,665  $  459,820
  Allowance for sales returns                 1,309,031     105,119   275,637   1,138,513
                                           ----------  ----------  --------  ----------

                                             $1,719,856  $  161,779  $283,302  $1,598,333
                                             ==========  ==========  ========  ==========

</TABLE>





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
