-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Ng6r8HW6ildAOgojqgyTjxViuY0zYQc58YjJwbbaHHXy7m1FMHikwsCZwUPmXCUe
 PjHUyAl2RGy48vPQfBqALA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000895095-99-000011.txt : 19990413
<SEC-HEADER>0000895095-99-000011.hdr.sgml : 19990413
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000895095-99-000011
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19981231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990331
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		19990412

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MATHSOFT INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895095
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	7372
		IRS NUMBER:				042842217
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20992
		FILM NUMBER:		99583936

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 MAIN ST
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142-1017
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6175771017

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 MAIN STREET
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142-1521
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>MATHSOFT,INC. 10K
<TEXT>








                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC  20549
                                  ____________

                                    FORM 10-K



X        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE 
                     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1998

                         Commission file number 0-020992
                                    MATHSOFT, INC.
                                    --------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


     MASSACHUSETTS               04-2842217
     -------------               ----------
     (State  or  other  jurisdiction               (I.R.S.  employer
     of  incorporation  or  organization)               identification)


     101  MAIN  STREET,  CAMBRIDGE,  MASSACHUSETTS          02142
     ---------------------------------------------          -----
(Address  of  principal  executive  offices)          (Zip  code)


Registrant's  telephone  number,  including  area  code  (617)  577-1017

Securities  registered  pursuant  to  Section  12(g)  of  the  Act:

                          COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE
                          ----------------------------
                                (Title of class)

     Indicate  by  check mark whether the registrant:  (1) has filed all reports
required  to  be  filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or  for  such shorter period that the
registrant  was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing  requirements  for  the  past  90  days.  Yes   X   No  ___
                                                     ---

     Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  registrant's  knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form  10-K.

     The  aggregate  market  value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the  registrant  was approximately $28,887,326 as of March 22, 1999 (computed by
reference  to  the  closing  price of such stock on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market).
The  number  of  shares of common stock, $.01 par value, outstanding as of March
22,  1999  was  9,765,461.

     Documents  incorporated  by  reference  in  Part  III  of  this  10K: Proxy
Statement  for  Registrant's  1999  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders.


<PAGE>





                                     PART I
ITEM  1.  BUSINESS.
                                     General
MathSoft,  Inc.  ("MathSoft"  or  the  "Company") develops, markets and supports
software  productivity tools and services for the technical calculation and data
analysis markets comprised of technical professionals, researchers, students and
educators.

Mathcad  ,  the  Company's  principal  technical  calculation product, was first
released  in fiscal 1987 and can be used by desktop and laptop computer users to
perform  calculations  from  the  simple to the elaborate, and then document the
results.  Mathcad  offers  technical  professionals,  educators, and students an
interactive,  intuitive,  easy-to-modify  alternative  to  their  traditional
calculation  methods  such  as  pencil  and  paper, scratchpads and calculators.
The  market for technical calculation software includes technical professionals,
such  as electrical, mechanical and civil engineers, scientists, mathematicians,
researchers,  technicians  and  analysts,  as well as educators and students who
regularly  are  required  to  perform  technical calculations. These users often
refer  to a wide range of published materials containing formulas or data, which
can  be  used  in  solving  technical  problems.

In 1992, the Company expanded its technical calculation software product line by
introducing  Electronic Books as add-on products to Mathcad. These books deliver
extensive  off-the-shelf technical information, such as formulas and data, which
is  critical  to  technical  problem  solving.  Through  the  use  of MathSoft's
proprietary  "live  document  interface  ," these books provide the Mathcad user
with  on-screen  access  to  interactive  technical  information. This enables a
Mathcad  user  to  either perform calculations in the book itself or to transfer
formulas,  data and results to Mathcad for instant calculation and analysis. The
Company  delivers  electronic  versions of industry leading reference works from
nationally  and internationally recognized publishers, in addition to internally
authored  works.  In  addition,  the Company licenses its Mathcad and Electronic
Book  authoring  technology  to  third  party  publishers  for  use  in creating
interactive  Electronic  Books  which are marketed and distributed by such third
party  publishers  as  stand-alone  products.

In  May  1993,  the Company opened an international office located in the United
Kingdom  to  broaden  distribution of its products.  For the twelve months ended
December  31,  1998,  international  sales of all technical calculation and data
analysis  software  products and services represented approximately 28% of total
revenues  (refer  to  Footnote  7  &  8  for  further  detail).

In June 1993, the Company introduced a new product line through its wholly owned
subsidiary,  Statistical  Sciences,  Inc.,  now  referred  to as MathSoft's Data
Analysis  Products  Division  ("DAPD").  DAPD develops and markets advanced data
analysis  software  products  and  services  based  on  "S," a computer language
designed  for  statistics  applications. DAPD's principal product is S-PLUS , an
interactive  computing  environment that provides both a full-featured graphical
data  analysis system and an object-oriented language. The Company acquired this
business  on  June 30, 1993, through the acquisition of substantially all of the
assets  and  business  of  Statistical Sciences, Inc., a Washington corporation.
For  the twelve-months ended December 31, 1998, worldwide sales of data analysis
products  and  services  represented  approximately  36%  of  total  revenues.

The  market  for  data  analysis  software  consists principally of professional
scientists,  engineers, statisticians and business analysts as well as educators
and  students.  Data  analysis  products  are  used in such fields as biomedical
technology,  quantitative  financial analysis and risk assessment, environmental
science  and  engineering,  industrial and market research, and process control.

<PAGE>

In  November 1995, the Company acquired TriMetrix, Inc. ("TriMetrix").  MathSoft
complemented  its technical calculation product line with the addition of Axum ,
a  Windows-based  technical  charting  and  data  analysis product acquired with
TriMetrix,  which  transforms,  manipulates  and sorts data sets to perform both
simple  and  advanced analysis. Axum has been redesigned to link seamlessly with
Mathcad  and  the  Axum technology is now a key component of S-PLUS for Windows.

In  June  1996,  the  Company  released StudyWorks! for Math and StudyWorks! for
Science  targeted  specifically  toward  high  school  and non-technical college
students  and  educators. Both StudyWorks products offer an interactive learning
environment  and assist students in both mastering math and science concepts and
creating  professional  looking homework and lab reports in addition to allowing
both  educators  and  students  the  ability  to  collaborate  on  projects.  In
September  1996,  the  Company announced the release of StudyWorks!  Schools, an
instructional  edition  of  the  StudyWorks  for Math and StudyWorks for Science
software, which offers teachers a tools-based, interactive teaching and learning
environment.

In  November 1996, the Company acquired acroScience Corporation ("acroScience").
MathSoft  integrated  visual  modeling  and programming technology acquired from
acroScience  into  Mathcad.

In  April  1997,  the  Company  expanded  its  data  analysis  product  line  by
introducing  MathSoft  StatServer,  a  warehouse-independent  platform  for
distributing  statistical  analysis  and  graphics to business professionals and
analysts  over  corporate  Intranets.  StatServer  uses the S-PLUS technology to
create  deployable intelligent analytics for an organization and integrates with
existing  data  storage  and  desktop  applications.

In  December  1997,  the  Company  changed  its  fiscal year end from June 30 to
December  31.  Accordingly,  the Company began a new twelve-month fiscal year on
January  1, 1998.  The six-month period resulting from this change, July 1, 1997
through  December  31,  1997,  is  referred  to  as  the  "Transition  Period."
The  Company's  goals are to continue to meet the expanding calculation and data
analysis  needs  of  technical  professionals, to provide students and educators
with  software  tools  that  can be used for learning and for solving real-world
problems  and  to develop new products for the growing needs of businesses.  The
Company  will continue to broaden the appeal for all of its products to existing
and  new markets through technological innovation, in such areas as ease-of-use,
mathematical  power,  graphics  and deployability, and to continue to expand its
distribution  as  new  products  for  new  markets  are  introduced.

The  Company  was  incorporated  in Massachusetts in October 1984 under the name
Engineering  Specific  Products  Corp. and changed its name to MathSoft, Inc. in
January  1986. The Company's principal executive offices are located at 101 Main
Street,  Cambridge,  Massachusetts  02142,  and  its  telephone  number is (617)
577-1017.

<PAGE>
                                    Products

Technical  Calculation  Software  Products

MathSoft  publishes  a range of technical calculation and software products that
allow  users to perform calculations and create publication-quality documents on
personal  computers.  Its  principal  product  in  this category, Mathcad, is to
technical  professionals  what  spreadsheets  have  proven  to  be  for business
professionals.  Mathcad  can  be  used  by  desktop  computer  users  to perform
technical  calculations, from the simple to the elaborate. An innovative feature
of  Mathcad  is  its  ability  to  allow  the  user to electronically access and
manipulate  formulas  and  data  available in the Company's Electronic Books and
Extension  Packs.  Electronic  Books  provide  on-screen  libraries  of
industry-leading  reference  work,  user  guides,  solution  templates,  and
educational materials while Extension Packs provide additional functionality for
advanced  users.  StudyWorks,  the  most  recent addition to the Mathcad product
line,  was  designed as an integrated learning tool combining math, text, graphs
and  graphics for the high school and college market.  StudyWorks helps students
master  math  and  science  concepts,  get  better  grades  and  create
professional-looking  homework  and  lab  reports.

Mathcad

Mathcad's  broad appeal lies in its use of MathSoft's proprietary "live document
interface" technology. This permits users to calculate on a computer in much the
same  way  that  they  would  on  a  scratchpad  where  equations can be written
anywhere,  using real math notation, and erased, changed and moved. A scratchpad
can  show  a  variety  of  expressions  such  as  formulas, words, graphs, data,
equations  and  pictures.  Mathcad  works  in  a  similar  free-form  manner  by
literally turning a computer screen into a live worksheet and therefore provides
a  very  intuitive  interface  to  perform  a  wide range of numeric or symbolic
calculations, but Mathcad has one distinct advantage over a real scratchpad - it
calculates.

When  using  Mathcad,  the  computer  screen  initially  appears  blank,  like a
scratchpad.  Using  the  keyboard  and the mouse, the user begins by placing the
cursor  anywhere  on the screen and then starts typing. To create a formula, the
user  types  keystrokes  such as +, /, or * or uses a mouse to click on a symbol
palette.  As  the  user  types,  Mathcad  automatically  formats the formulas in
standard mathematical notation and instantly calculates the results. To create a
graph,  the  user  selects  the  graph  symbol  from the palette and defines the
parameters  of  the  graph. As with an electronic spreadsheet, Mathcad instantly
updates  results as changes to variables or formulas are made. Text may be added
anywhere.  Multi-page  presentation  quality  documents can be printed, complete
with  text,  graphics,  tables  and  equations.  Its  free-form  interactive
environment  makes  Mathcad ideal for formulating ideas, setting up problems and
evolving  solutions and sharing both the process and the results through printed
documents,  e-mail,  and  the  World  Wide  Web.

Mathcad  is used as a calculator for simple formulas, as a more elaborate solver
for  equations  formally  linked within a "live document," as a technical report
generator,  as  a  live  charting  facility,  and  as  a  mathematical  teaching
environment.  Mathcad  also  provides an interface to online technical reference
works.  Mathcad  performs  numeric  and  symbolic  calculations  in the real and
complex  domain, solves systems of linear and non-linear equations, and performs
iterative  calculations.

Electronic  Books

An  extension  of the Mathcad product line, Electronic Books deliver information
and solutions in an interactive form to Mathcad users.  Electronic Books provide
the  user  with  on-screen  libraries  of technical data combined with Mathcad's
capacity  to  utilize  and  manipulate  the  raw data through its "live document
interface."  This  enables  the  user  to  search  the  book  for  material, use
hyperlinks  to  jump to related sections within the work, and calculate problems
and manipulate data using formulas and data contained in the work. A key feature
of  MathSoft's  Electronic  Books  is that the material is live and interactive,
enabling  a  Mathcad  user to apply the formulas or data from the book either by
performing  calculations  in  the book itself or by transferring the formulas or
data,  or  results,  to  Mathcad  for  calculation  and  analysis.  Without  the
Electronic  Book,  the  user must manually key in entire formulas from published
sources  before  using  the  software  to  solve equations. The book may contain
reference  information  (e.g.,  the properties of various materials and standard
formulas),  solutions  for  standard engineering problems, tutorials on selected
topics,  or  educational  courseware.  Additionally,  Mathcad's  "live  document
interface"  supports  the  inclusion  of  sound  and  video  components.

In  addition  to  internally  authored  works,  the  Company delivers electronic
versions of industry-leading reference works from nationally and internationally
recognized  publishers. The agreements by which the Company licenses content for
Electronic  Books  from publishers typically provide for a non-exclusive license
at  an  agreed-upon royalty rate, and continue for a term of five to seven years
unless  extended  by  mutual  agreement.

The  Company  also licenses its Mathcad and Electronic Book authoring technology
to third party publishers for use in creating interactive Electronic Books which
are  marketed  and  distributed  by  such  third party publishers as stand-alone
products.  Users  are  not  required  to use Mathcad to access these interactive
Electronic  Books.

Extension  Packs

Extension  Packs  provide  additional  functionality  to Mathcad in the areas of
signal  processing, wavelets, image processing, and advanced optimization.  Once
installed, the functions are seamlessly integrated with the Mathcad function set
allowing the user to see results immediately and explore the effects of changing
parameters  in  mathematical  routines.

Axum

In  November  1995,  the  Company  acquired  TriMetrix, Inc., a software company
located  in  Seattle,  Washington and the developer of Axum software.  Axum is a
Windows-based  advanced  technical  graphing  and  data  analysis software which
offers  scientists and engineers in the technical professional market, including
Mathcad  users,  the  advanced  charting  tools  needed for creating compelling,
highly  visual  presentations  and  publication-quality  documents.  Users  can
transform,  manipulate  and  sort  data sets to perform both simple and advanced
analysis.  Axum  has  also  been  redesigned  to  link  seamlessly with Mathcad.

StudyWorks

StudyWorks! for Math and StudyWorks! for Science, productivity software for high
school  and college students and their teachers, was designed as a rich learning
environment  that  helps students understand math and science problems, complete
and  check  a  variety of solutions, and print out great looking lab reports and
homework  papers.  Each product is a three-in-one combination of an application,
rich  interactive content and two-way Internet access.  StudyWorks is based on a
powerful  graphical  calculation and document preparation tool and includes rich
multimedia  encyclopedias  of  math  and  science  formulas  and key concepts in
algebra, geometry, earth science, chemistry, pre-calculus, physics, calculus and
statistics.  Users  also receive built-in links to the Company's StudyWorks home
page,  which  allows  high  school  students,  college  students and teachers to
participate  in  virtual  study  groups  and discussion forums, pick up Homework
Hints  and  link  to  related  sites  on  the  World  Wide  Web.

 StudyWorks!  for  Schools,  released  in  September  1996,  was designed as the
instructional  edition  complement  to  the  Company's  StudyWorks  for Math and
StudyWorks  for  Science  software  products.  StudyWorks  for  Schools  allows
teachers  to  integrate  software  and  distance  learning approaches into their
current  math  and  science  curriculum  and  provide  students  with  an
"active-learning,"  content-rich  learning  tool.  StudyWorks  for  Schools
integrates  seamlessly with existing curricula, works with graphing calculators,
includes  a  content-rich  math  and science reference library, and comes with a
Teachers  Resource Guide featuring sample lesson plans, classroom presentations,
lab  and  homework  exercises and tips for maximizing the use of the technology.
It  also  connects  teachers  and  students  to  each  other  via  the Web-based
Collaboratory for a variety of distance learning applications, including virtual
study  groups,  online  tutoring,  and  the dissemination of class or lab notes,
problem  sets,  exams  and  solutions.

<PAGE>

Data  Analysis  Software  Products

S-PLUS

On  June  30,  1993, the Company acquired Statistical Sciences, Inc., a software
company  located in Seattle, Washington. The Company's principal product in this
category, S-PLUS, is an advanced, exploratory data analysis and statistical data
mining  solution for technical and business professionals who need sophisticated
analysis  and  visualization  capabilities.  Based  on  the  object-oriented "S"
programming  language  licensed  from  Lucent  Technologies Inc., S-PLUS enables
users  to perform exploratory data analysis, graphics, statistics, visualization
and  mathematical  computing  in the Windows and UNIX environments.  The primary
advantage  of S-PLUS lies within the "S" Language.  The "S" language is the only
modern  object-oriented language created specifically for data visualization and
exploration,  statistical  modeling and programming with data.  This interactive
language  environment  gives  users  immediate  feedback at every stage of their
analysis.




Modules

To  complement  S-PLUS,  the Company offers add-on modules that work with S-PLUS
and  provide  additional  "S"  language  functions for specialized data analysis
purposes.

StatServer

In  April  1997,  the  Company  expanded  its  data  analysis  product  line  by
introducing  MathSoft  StatServer.  StatServer  enables corporations to leverage
existing client/server and internet/intranet technologies and deploy statistical
expertise  throughout an organization.  StatServer is data warehouse-independent
and integrates seamlessly with all standard database and data warehouse formats.
The  robust  database  support provides the tools for advanced analysis and data
visualization  of the most popular relational databases.  With StatServer, basic
statistical models and data visualization capabilities are built and stored in a
central server for access by non-technical users, who can apply these analytical
techniques from a single and familiar client to understand or interpret key data
sets.  Using  StatServer,  professionals  in  diverse  fields  such  as finance,
biomedicine  and manufacturing can use familiar tools such as Excel, Netscape or
Powerbuilder  to  access  corporate  data  resources  and  perform data analysis
without  becoming  experts  in  statistics  or  users  of  statistical  tools.
StatServer  moves  beyond  the  capabilities  of  report  writers,  spreadsheet
applications  and stand-alone data analysis software, representing a significant
advancement  in  decision  support  and  data  mining  technology.

Marketing  and  Sales

     Technical  Calculation  Software  Products

The Company's market for technical calculation software products consists of two
significant groups of end users: technical professionals and academia (educators
and  students). End users within the technical professionals group span numerous
fields  and  include  electrical,  mechanical  and  civil engineers, scientists,
mathematicians,  researchers,  technicians  and  analysts.  The education market
consists of secondary, undergraduate and graduate educators and students in many
technical  disciplines.  The  Company's products are currently used as tools for
diverse  purposes,  from  back-of-the-envelope calculations to bridge design and
genetic  engineering.

MathSoft  reaches  domestic  customers of Mathcad primarily through a network of
educational  and  commercial  third  party  resellers  and  distributors.  To
complement  this  network,  the  Company  has  a domestic telesales organization
focused on sales to the registered installed base as well as on lead generation,
prospect  qualification  and  sales  of  site  license  agreements  and  network
licenses.  In addition, Mathcad upgrades are primarily marketed to the Company's
registered installed base via direct mail.  For the twelve months ended December
31, 1998, domestic sales through distributor and reseller channels accounted for
approximately  51%  of  total  domestic  sales of technical calculation software
products,  with  the  balance of such sales through either installed base direct
mail,  the  Company's  telesales  operations,  electronic mail, or the Company's
webstore.  One  distributor,  Ingram  Micro,  accounted  for  13% and 12% of net
revenues,  respectively,  for the year ended December 31, 1998 and the six-month
period  ended December 31, 1997.  Ingram Micro also accounted for 14% and 12% of
net  revenues  in  the years ended June 30, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  Ingram
Micro is a distributor of our products primarily to various resellers and retail
accounts,  none of which comprised more than 10% of the Company's total revenues
during  the  periods  mentioned.

Internationally,  all  technical  calculation  software  products  are  marketed
primarily through a network of resellers and distributors.  Mathcad upgrades are
marketed  through  distributors  as well as to the registered installed base via
direct mail.  For the twelve months ended December 31, 1998, international sales
through resellers and distributors accounted for substantially all international
sales  of  technical  calculation  software  products.

Data  Analysis  Software  Products

The  Company's  market  for  data  analysis  products  consists  principally  of
professional  and academic scientists, engineers and statisticians.  The product
is used in such fields as biomedical technology, quantitative financial analysis
and  risk  assessment,  environmental  science  and  engineering, industrial and
market  research,  and  process  control.

The  Company  reaches  domestic  customers  of  its  data analysis products both
through  its  domestic  telesales organization and an outside sales team.  Leads
are  generated  from  advertising, Public Relations, seminars and tradeshows and
these  leads  are  then  pursued  by  the  telesales  organization.
Internationally,  the  Company  reaches  customers of its data analysis products
primarily  through  a  network  of  resellers  and  distributors.  In the United
Kingdom,  the  Company  sells  directly  to  end-users.











Customer  Technical  Support

Technical  Calculation  Software  Products

MathSoft  provides  technical  support  to its domestic customers by phone, fax,
mail  and  automated  technical  support via a telephone response system and the
Company's  home  page  on  the  World  Wide  Web.  A  technical support staff of
engineers  located  in  Cambridge  provides  solutions to installation and basic
usage  problems  as  well  as  assistance on advanced technical and mathematical
issues.  The  Company  provides  this  support  free  of  charge  to  individual
end-users  and  offers  a  Premium Support Plan to its corporate customers.  The
Company  currently  provides  technical  support for its Mathcad, StudyWorks and
Axum  product  lines  and  offers  a  variety  of  product  add-ons.

International  customers  who  purchase  product from distributors receive first
line  technical  support  from  their respective local distributor.  A technical
support  staff  of  engineers, located in the Company's United Kingdom sales and
marketing  office,  is  available  to  support  the  distributors.

Data  Analysis  Software  Products

Technical  support for the S-PLUS product line is provided to domestic customers
by  a  staff  of  engineers  located  in  Seattle.  Support is only available to
customers  who  purchase  an  annual  maintenance  and  technical  support plan.
International  customers  who  purchase products from distributors receive first
line  technical  support  from  their respective local distributor.  A technical
support  staff  of  engineers, located in the Company's United Kingdom sales and
marketing  office,  is  available  to  support  the  distributors as well as the
Company's  direct  customers  in  the  United  Kingdom.

<PAGE>
Manufacturing  and  Distribution

The  Company  utilizes several third party vendors to manufacture and distribute
its  products.  This permits the Company to manage peak volumes customary in the
software  industry  and  to  avoid  having  to  maintain  high fixed costs while
experiencing  daily  fluctuations  in  order  and  customer  contacts.
The  Company's  practice is to ship its products promptly upon receipt of orders
from  its  customers  and,  as  a  result,  product  backlog is not significant.

Technical  Calculation  Software  Products

The  Company  subcontracts with a single independent third party vendor, located
in  Wilmington,  Massachusetts,  to manufacture all of its technical calculation
software  products  and  fulfill  all  of  its  domestic  orders.

With  the  exception  of  Mathcad  upgrade  orders generated by direct mail, the
Company  processes  all  domestic  orders  from its leased facilities located in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts.  MathSoft  subcontracts the processing of all Mathcad
upgrade  direct  mail  orders  with  an  independent  service company located in
Chicago,  Illinois.

All  international  orders  are processed by a third party vendor located in the
United  Kingdom  that  also  provides  warehousing  and  fulfillment  services.
Data  Analysis  Software  Products

The  Company  subcontracts  with  a  third  party  vendor,  located  in  Monroe,
Washington,  to manufacture all of its S-PLUS product line updates.  The Company
warehouses  inventory  and processes and fulfills domestic orders internally out
of  its Seattle office.  All international orders are processed and fulfilled by
third  party vendors located in the United Kingdom that also provide warehousing
and  fulfillment  services.

Product  Development
MathSoft's  research and development organization, divided between the Company's
Cambridge,  Massachusetts  and Seattle, Washington locations, is responsible for
software  development,  product  documentation,  and  quality  assurance.  Its
priorities are to continue technical innovation for power and performance and to
respond  to  market  feedback  by continuing to design products for ease-of-use.

MathSoft's development team consists of experts in software engineering, quality
assurance,  mathematics, statistics, engineering and documentation.  In software
engineering,  MathSoft's  professional staff has expertise in computer graphics,
compiler  design,  user  interface  design  and  advanced  Windows  and Internet
technologies.

During  the  fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, the Transition Period, and the
fiscal  years  ended  June  30,  1997,  and 1996, research and development costs
charged  to  operations  were $4,964,000, $2,816,000, $5,143,000 and $3,659,000,
respectively.  The  Company  did  not  capitalize  any  software  research  and
development  costs  during the twelve months ended December 31, 1998 as software
research  and  development  costs  incurred  from  technological  feasibility to
general  release  were  not  material.









Competition

The  markets  for  technical calculation and data analysis software products are
highly  competitive.  In  the  technical  calculation  software market, MathSoft
considers  its  principal  competition to include technical calculation software
from  companies  providing  specialized  tools,  such as The MathWorks, Waterloo
Maple  Software  and Wolfram Research.  In the data analysis market, the Company
considers  its  principal  competition  to include statistical software products
from  such  companies  as  SAS  and  SPSS.  In  both  markets, the Company faces
competition  from  companies  providing  competing  software  solutions, such as
spreadsheets.  The Company may also face new competition from potential entrants
into  the  technical  calculation and data analysis software markets, as well as
more  focused  competition  from  companies  in  related  markets.  For example,
providers  of  spreadsheet  programs  could  add  to  or  improve  the technical
calculation and data analysis functionality of their existing products.  Some of
these  companies may have significant name recognition, as well as substantially
greater  capital  resources,  marketing  experience,  research  and  development
staffs,  and  production  facilities  than  the  Company.  Although  the Company
believes  it  has  certain technological advantages over existing competitors in
the  technical  calculation  and the data analysis software markets, maintaining
these  advantages  will  require continued investment by the Company in research
and  development.  There  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  Company  will  have
sufficient resources to make such investment or that the Company will be able to
make  the technological advances necessary to maintain its competitive position.

Intellectual  Property  Rights  and  Licenses

MathSoft's  software  is proprietary and the Company attempts to protect it with
copyrights,  trade secret laws and internal nondisclosure safeguards, as well as
restrictions  on  copying,  disclosure and transferability that are incorporated
into  its software license agreements. Generally, the Company's products are not
physically  copy-protected. In order to retain exclusive ownership rights to all
software  developed  by MathSoft, the Company licenses all software and provides
it in executable code only, with contractual restrictions on copying, disclosure
and  transferability.  As  is  customary  in the industry, MathSoft licenses its
products to end-users by use of a 'shrink-wrap' license. The source code for all
of  the  Company's  products  is  protected as a trade secret and as unpublished
copyrighted  work.  In  addition, the Company has entered into nondisclosure and
inventions  agreements  with  key  employees.  The  Company has been granted two
patents and is aggressively pursuing patent protection.  However, in those areas
where  the  Company  has no patent protection, judicial enforcement of copyright
laws  may  be  uncertain.

In  fiscal  1994,  the  Company  was granted a non-exclusive worldwide perpetual
license  to Maple V Symbolic Algebra Software for inclusion in Mathcad and other
products  in  exchange  for  a  fixed  royalty  payment.

The  Company  is  a  worldwide  licensee  until  February  18,  2002  of  Lucent
Technologies  Inc.  for  the  "S"  programming  language. Under the license, the
Company  has  the  right  to  use,  sublicense  and  support the "S" programming
language from Lucent Technologies in exchange for royalties.  Any modifications,
enhancements, adaptations or derivations of the "S" programming language are the
property  of the Company. After February 18, 2002, the Company, at its election,
may  extend  this  license  for five-year terms in perpetuity, provided that the
Company  continues  to  comply  with its obligations under the license. Although
termination  of  this  license  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect on the
Company's operations because Lucent Technologies is the sole licensor of the "S"
programming  language,  the  Company is not presently aware of any circumstances
which  would  prevent  it  from  fulfilling  its  obligations under the license.

Due  to  the  rapid  pace  of technological change in the software industry, the
Company  believes  that  patent,  trade secret and copyright protection are less
significant  to  its  competitive  position  than factors such as the knowledge,
ability  and  experience  of  the  Company's personnel, new product development,
frequent  product  enhancements,  name recognition, and ongoing reliable product
maintenance  and  support.

The  Company  believes  that  its  products  and other proprietary rights do not
infringe  the  proprietary  rights  of third parties. There can be no assurance,
however,  that  third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future.

Employees

As  of  December  31,  1998,  the  Company  employed  approximately  174 regular
full-time  and  part-time employees, of which 17 were outside the United States.
As  necessary,  the Company supplements its regular employees with temporary and
contract  personnel.  As of December 31, 1998, the Company employed 12 temporary
and  contract  personnel, of which none were outside the United States.  None of
the  Company's regular employees are represented by a labor union or are subject
to  a  collective bargaining agreement. The Company has never experienced a work
stoppage  and  believes  that  its  employee  relations  are  good.

<PAGE>









Cautionary  Statements

In  addition  to  the other information in this report, the following cautionary
statements  should  be  considered  carefully  in evaluating the Company and its
business.  Information  provided  by  the  Company from time to time may contain
certain  "forward-looking"  information,  as  that  term  is  defined by (i) the
Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995  (the  "Act") and (ii) in
releases  made  by  the  Securities  and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").  These
cautionary  statements  are being made pursuant to the provisions of the Act and
with  the intention of obtaining the benefits of the "safe harbor" provisions of
the  Act.

Variability  of  Quarterly Operating Results.  The Company's quarterly operating
results  may  vary significantly from quarter to quarter, depending upon factors
such  as the introduction and market acceptance of new products and new versions
of  existing  products,  the  ability  to reduce expenses, and the activities of
competitors.  Because a high percentage of the Company's expenses are relatively
fixed  in  the near term, minor variations in the timing of orders and shipments
can  cause  significant  variations in quarterly operating results.  The Company
operates  with  little  or  no  backlog  and  has  no  long-term  contracts.

Substantially  all  of its product revenues in each quarter result from software
licenses  issued  in  that  quarter  making  the Company's ability to accurately
forecast  future  revenues  and  income for any period necessarily limited.  Any
forward-looking information provided from time to time by the Company represents
only  management's  then-best  current estimate of future results or trends, and
actual  results  may  differ  materially  from  those contained in the Company's
estimates.

Potential  Volatility  of Stock Price.  There has been significant volatility in
the  market  price  of securities of technology companies.  The Company believes
factors such as announcements of new products by the Company or its competitors,
quarterly  fluctuations  in  the  Company's  financial results or other software
companies'  financial  results,  shortfalls  in  the  Company's actual financial
results  compared to results previously forecasted by stock market analysts, and
general  conditions  in  the  software  industry and conditions in the financial
markets  could  cause  the  market  price  of  the  Common  Stock  to  fluctuate
substantially.  These  market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of the
Company's  Common  Stock.

Risks  Associated  with  Acquisitions.  The  Company  has  made  a  number  of
acquisitions  and  will continue to review future acquisition opportunities.  No
assurances  can  be  given  that  acquisition  candidates  will  continue  to be
available  on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to the Company.  Acquisitions
involve  numerous  risks,  including,  among  other things, possible dilution to
existing shareholders, difficulties and expenses incurred in connection with the
acquisitions  and  the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or
products  of  the  acquired  companies,  the difficulty of operating new (albeit
related) businesses, the diversion of management's attention from other business
concerns  and  the  potential loss of key employees of the acquired company.  In
the  event  that  the  operations  of  an  acquired  business  do not live up to
expectations,  the  Company may be required to restructure the acquired business
or  write-off  the  value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business.
There  can  be no assurance that any acquisition will be successfully integrated
into  the  Company's  operations.

<PAGE>

Risks  Associated  with Divestitures.  The Company's product offerings presently
may  be  divided  between  two principal product families - those related to its
Mathcad line addressing the calculation needs of the technical, professional and
education markets, and those related to its S-PLUS offerings, marketed primarily
to  professionals  needing  statistical  analysis  tools.

In  setting strategic goals to maximize shareholder value, the Company from time
to  time  considers the options of divesting itself of one product family or the
other,  or  product lines within a given family, to concentrate its focus on the
business  opportunity  associated  with  the remaining product family or product
lines.

At  the  present time, the Company is not party to any agreement relating to the
sale  of  either  of its product families or product lines within such families,
but  it  may  elect  to pursue such options at any time.  If the Company were to
consummate  such a sale, there can be no assurance that it would receive returns
from  such  sale  that  investors  in  the  Company  would  consider attractive.

Risks  Associated  with  Distribution  Channels.  The  Company  markets  and
distributes  its S-PLUS products in the U.S. through the Company's telesales and
outside  sales  force  and  internationally  through  third  party resellers and
distributors  and  its  own salesforce.  Mathcad products are currently marketed
and  distributed  in  the  U.S.  through third party resellers and distributors,
telesales  and  direct  mail  and  electronic  methods.  Internationally,  the
Company's  Mathcad  products  are  marketed  and distributed through third party
resellers  and distributors.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be
able  to  retain  its  current  resellers  and  distributors,  or  expand  its
distribution  channels  by  entering  into  arrangements  with new resellers and
distributors  in  the  Company's  current  markets  or  in  new  markets.





Risks  Associated  with  International  Operations.  Sales outside North America
accounted  for  approximately  33%  and approximately 34% of the Company's total
revenues  in the fiscal years ended June 30, 1996 and 1997, approximately 30% of
the Company's total revenues during the Transition Period, and approximately 28%
of  the Company's total revenues in the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, and
may  continue  to  represent  a  significant  portion  of  the Company's product
revenues.  Any  decrease  in  sales  outside North America may have a materially
adverse  effect on the Company's operating results.  The Company's international
business  and  financial performance may be affected by fluctuations in exchange
rates  and  by  trade  regulations.

Reliance  on  Third  Party Licensors.  Maple V, a software product licensed as a
part  of  Mathcad,  contains certain copyrighted texts licensed from third party
publishers incorporated in the Company's Electronic Books, and the S programming
language,  the  language  on  which all of the StatSci's products are based, are
currently  licensed  from  a single source or limited source suppliers.  If such
licenses  are  discontinued,  there can be no assurance that the Company will be
able  to  independently develop substitutes or to obtain alternative sources or,
if  able  to be developed or obtained as needed in the future, that such efforts
would  not result in delays or reductions in product shipments or cost increases
that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated business
operations.

Rapid  Technological  Change;  Competition.  The  technical calculation software
market is subject to rapid and substantial technological change, similar to that
affecting  the  software industry generally.  The Company, to remain successful,
must  be  responsive  to  new  developments  in  hardware  and  chip technology,
operating  systems,  programming  technology, Internet technology and multimedia
capabilities.  In  addition,  the  Company  competes  against  numerous  other
companies,  some  of  which  have  significant  name  recognition,  as  well  as
substantially  greater  capital  resources,  marketing  experience, research and
development  staffs  and  production facilities than the Company.  The Company's
financial  results  may be negatively impacted by the failure of new or existing
products  to  be  favorably  received  by  retailers and consumers due to price,
availability,  features, other product choices or the necessity of promotions to
increase  sales  of  the  Company's  products.

<PAGE>
Year  2000 Issues.  The Year 2000 issue exists because many computer systems and
applications  currently  use  two-digit date fields to designate a year.  As the
century  date change occurs, date-sensitive systems will recognize the year 2000
as  1900, or not at all.  This inability to recognize or properly treat the Year
2000 may cause systems to process critical financial and operational information
incorrectly.  The  Company  utilizes  software  from  third  parties and related
technologies throughout its business that will be affected by the date change in
the  year  2000.  An internal study is currently under way to determine the full
scope  and  related  costs to insure that the Company's systems continue to meet
its  needs.  The Company began incurring expenses in 1997 to resolve this issue.

Uncertainties  Regarding  Protection  of  Proprietary  Technology; Uncertainties
Regarding  Patents.  The  Company  believes  that  while  the  mathematical
calculations  performed by the Company's software are not proprietary, the speed
and  quality  of  displaying  the  computation and the ease of use are unique to
MathSoft's products.  The Company's success will depend, in part, on its ability
to  protect  the  proprietary  aspects  of  its  products.  The Company seeks to
protect  these  proprietary  aspects  of  its  products  principally  through  a
combination  of  contract  provisions and copyright, patent, trademark and trade
secret  laws.  There  can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company to
protect  its  proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of
its  technology.  Although the Company believes that its products and technology
do not infringe any existing proprietary rights of others, the use of patents to
protect  software  has  increased  and there may be pending or issued patents of
which the Company is not aware that the Company may need to license or challenge
at  significant  expense.  There can be no assurance that any such license would
be  available  on acceptable terms, if at all, or that the Company would prevail
in  any  such  challenge.

Reliance  on  Attracting  and  Retaining Key Employees.  The Company's continued
success  will  depend  in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly
qualified  technical,  managerial,  sales  and  marketing  and  other personnel.
Competition  for  such  personnel  is  intense.  The Company has non-competition
agreements  with  its  key  management  and technical personnel. There can be no
assurance  that  the  Company will be able to continue to attract or retain such
personnel.

Risks  Associated  with  New Products or Services.  The Company's future revenue
growth  rate  and  earnings performance depend on a number of factors, including
the  continued  success  of  its existing products and service offerings and the
development  of  one  or  more  new products or services.  These investments may
adversely affect the Company's quarterly and annual financial results until such
time that they begin to return a profit.  Furthermore, there can be no assurance
that  these  investments  will  ever  achieve  the  desired  financial  results.










ITEM  2.  PROPERTIES.

The  Company  leases  34,562  square  feet  of  office space at 101 Main Street,
Cambridge,  Massachusetts of which 23,350 square feet is occupied by the Company
and  11,212  square  feet  is  sublet to a third party.  The Company renewed its
lease  for the 23,350 square feet it currently occupies on November 30, 1998 and
this  lease  is  scheduled  to  terminate in October 2004.  A third party vendor
provides  warehousing  services  to  meet  the Company's needs. The Company also
leases  15,891  square  feet  of office space and subleases 7,043 square feet of
office  space  at  1700  Westlake Avenue North, Seattle, Washington.  This lease
expires in September 1999 and the sublease expires in March 2000.  In connection
with the acquisition of acroScience, the Company assumed a lease on 1,740 square
feet  of  office  space in Boulder, Colorado, which is scheduled to terminate in
January  2000.  The  Company  currently sublets this space to a third party on a
renewable  90  day  basis,  the term of which will terminate in March 1999.  The
Company  also  leases  2,931  square feet of office space in the United Kingdom.
The  term  of  the  lease  for this office space is scheduled to expire in March
2000.

The Company believes that its facilities are adequate for its needs. The Company
does  not  consider  the  specific location of its offices to be material to its
business.

<PAGE>

ITEM  3.  LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS.

The Company is not involved in any legal proceedings which could have a material
adverse  effect  on  the  Company.

ITEM  4.  SUBMISSION  OF  MATTERS  TO  A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY-HOLDERS.

Not  applicable.



<PAGE>

                                     PART II


ITEM  5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.


The  Company's  Common  Stock  (Nasdaq:  MATH)  began  trading  publicly  in the
over-the-counter  market through the Nasdaq National Market on February 3, 1993.
Prior  to  that  date, there was no public market for the Common Stock.  On July
15,  1997, the Company transferred the listing of its Common Stock to the Nasdaq
SmallCap  Market.  The  following  table  presents  quarterly information on the
price  range  of  the Common Stock.  This information indicates the high and low
bid  prices  for  the Common Stock as reported by the Nasdaq National Market and
the  Nasdaq  SmallCap  Market  for  the  periods indicated.  These prices do not
include  retail  markups,  markdowns  or  commissions.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1996:       HIGH      LOW
                                      -------  -------
<S>                                   <C>      <C>
First Quarter. . . . . . . . . . . .    6 7/8    4 5/8
Second Quarter . . . . . . . . . . .    6 7/8    4 7/8
Third Quarter. . . . . . . . . . . .    6 7/8    4 7/8
Fourth Quarter . . . . . . . . . . .    8 7/8    5 1/4

FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997:
First Quarter. . . . . . . . . . . .    7 5/8    4 7/8
Second Quarter . . . . . . . . . . .    5 3/8    3 1/4
Third Quarter. . . . . . . . . . . .    5 1/8    2 3/4
Fourth Quarter . . . . . . . . . . .    3 5/8   2 3/16

TRANSITION PERIOD:
July 1 to September 30, 1997 . . . .        4   2 7/16
October 1 to December 31, 1997 . . .    4 5/8    2 3/8

FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998:
First Quarter. . . . . . . . . . . .  3   1/2  2 11/16
Second Quarter . . . . . . . . . . .  4 11/32  3 13/32
Third Quarter. . . . . . . . . . . .  3   7/8  1 27/32
Fourth Quarter . . . . . . . . . . .   3  1/4  2  1/32

</TABLE>

As  of  March 22, 1999, the number of stockholders of record of Common Stock was
approximately  226.

The  Company  has never paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock and does not
anticipate  paying  any  cash  dividends in the foreseeable future.  The Company
currently  intends  to retain future earnings to fund the development and growth
of  its  business.


<PAGE>


ITEM  6.  SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA.


The  selected  consolidated financial data set forth below has been derived from
the  audited  financial  statements of the Company, except for the twelve months
ended  December  31, 1997 which has been presented for comparison purposes only.
The  information should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and
notes  thereto  set  forth  elsewhere  herein.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                          FISCAL
                                         YEAR ENDED  YEAR ENDED
                                           DEC 31,    DEC.31,    TRANSITION       FISCAL  YEARS  ENDED JUNE 30, 
  (in thousands, except per share data)     1998       1997       PERIOD(1)   1997      1996       1995      1994
                                                   (UNAUDITED)
<S>                                    <C>           <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>              <C>
Total revenues. . . . . . . . . . . . $    24,447     $21,224     $13,024    $17,678    $20,767   $15,883   $26,610 

Gross profit. . . . . . . . . . . . .      20,201      16,742      10,505     13,732     16,766    11,819    20,113 

Income (loss)  from operations. . . .       2,161      (2,160)      1,102     (4,394)       933    (3,635)   (7,296)

Net income (loss) . . . . . . . . . .       2,220      (2,129)      1,105     (4,300)     1,076    (3,553)   (7,146)

Diluted net income (loss) per common
     and common equivalent share. . .        0.22       (0.24)       0.11      (0.49)      0.11     (0.50)    (1.02)

Working capital . . . . . . . . . . .       4,439       1,852       1,870        457      4,688       617     1,618 

Total assets. . . . . . . . . . . . .      13,492       9,812       9,812      8,786     11,899     8,103    13,378 

Long-term obligations,. . . . . . . .         139          74          74        183          3        13        79 
     less current portion

Stockholders equity . . . . . . . . .       6,051       3,495       3,495      2,168      6,759     2,624     5,800 

<FN>

(1)  The  Company  changed its fiscal year end from June 30 to December 31.  The Transition Period represents
the  six  month
       period  from  July  1,  1997  through  December  31,  1997.

</TABLE>
<PAGE>


ITEM  7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF  OPERATIONS.

In  December  1997,  the  Company  changed  its  fiscal year end from June 30 to
December 31.  Accordingly, a six-month transition period ended December 31, 1997
is  included  below.

As  an  aid  to  understanding  the Company's operating results, the table below
indicates  the  percentage relationships of income and expense items included in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1998  and the twelve months ended December 31, 1997 (unaudited), the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1998 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997, the six
months  ended  December  31,  1997  (the "Transition Period") and the six months
ended  December  31,  1996,  the  two years ended June 30, 1997 and 1996 and the
percentage  changes in those items for the twelve months ended December 31, 1998
and 1997 (unaudited), the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 and June 30, 1997,
and  the  year  ended  June  30,  1997.






















<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                             --------------Percentage Change--------------
                                                                                            Fiscal      Transition   Fiscal
- - ---------------------------------Percentage of Total Revenues---------------    Fiscal     Year Ended   Period (1)  Year Ended
                           Fiscal                                             Year Ended   Dec 31,1998  compared to June 30,1997
                            Year    Year             Six Months  Fiscal Year  Dec 31, 1998  compared to  Six Months compared to 
                           Ended   Ended                Ended       Ended      compared to    Fiscal      Ended       Fiscal 
                           Dec 31, Dec 31, Transition  Dec 31,     June 30     Year Ended   Year Ended   Dec 31,     Year Ended  
                            1998    1997     Period     1996    1997    1996  Dec 31, 1997 June 30,1997   1996     June 30,1996
                            ------  ------  -------  ------  ------  ------  --------  --------------    ------     --------
<S>                         <C>     <C>     <C>      <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>       <C>             <C>     <C>
Revenues:                        (unaudited)        (unaudited)
  Software licenses. . . .   85.2%   85.0%    85.4%      87.2%   85.9%   87.4%     15.5%        37.3%      34.6%      -16.4%
  Services and other . . .   14.8%   15.0%    14.6%      12.8%   14.1%   12.6%     13.3%        44.4%      56.5%       -4.3%
                            ------  ------  -------     ------  ------  ------  --------  --------------  ------    --------
      Total revenues . . .  100.0%  100.0%   100.0%     100.0%  100.0%  100.0%     15.2%        38.3%      37.4%      -14.9%

Cost of Revenues:
  Software licenses. . . .   12.1%   16.0%    14.0%      16.7%   17.7%   14.7%    -12.8%        -5.1%      15.1%        2.0%
  Services and other . . .    5.3%    5.1%     5.4%       4.3%    4.6%    4.5%     18.3%        56.0%      73.8%      -12.4%
                            ------  ------  -------     ------  ------  ------  --------  --------------  ------     --------
     Total cost of revenues  17.4%   21.1%    19.3%      20.9%   22.3%   19.3%     -5.3%         7.6%      27.0%       -1.4%

     Gross profit. . . . . . 82.6%   78.9%    80.7%      79.1%   77.7%   80.7%     20.7%        47.1%      40.2%      -18.1%

Operating Expenses:
  Sales and marketing. . . . 42.4%   49.1%    39.7%      52.8%   58.0%   46.8%     -0.5%         1.1%       3.2%        5.5%
  Research and development . 20.3%   26.3%    21.6%      25.1%   29.1%   17.6%    -11.1%        -3.5%      18.4%       40.5%
  General and administrative 11.1%   13.7%    10.9%      13.1%   15.5%   11.8%     -6.7%        -0.7%      14.3%       11.3%
                            ------  ------  -------     ------  ------  ------  --------      --------------  ------  --------

    Total operating expenses.73.8%   89.1%    72.2%      91.0%  102.5%   76.2%     -4.6%           -0.5%    9.0%       14.5%

Income(loss) from operations. 8.8%  -10.2%     8.5%     -11.9%  -24.9%    4.5%    200.0%          149.2%    9.0%     -570.9%

Interest income(expense),net  0.4%    0.4%     0.2%       0.8%    0.8%    0.9%      3.8%          -40.8%  -73.8%      -27.7%
                            ------  ------  -------     ------  ------  ------  --------   --------------  ------    --------

Income (loss) before provision
  for income taxes . . . . .  9.2%   -9.8%     8.5%     -11.%  -24.1%    5.4%     207.7%           152.7%    9.8%    -478.2%

Provision for income taxes .  0.1%    0.2%     0.1%       0.2%    0.3%    0.2%    -51.1%           -48.3%   20.0%       -9.7%
                            ------  ------  -------     ------  ------  ------  --------   --------------  ------    --------

Net Income (loss) . . .  .    9.1%  -10.0%     8.5%     -11.3%  -24.4%    5.2%    204.2%          151.6%    9.8%     -499.7%
                            ======  ======  =======     ======  ======  ======  ========       ==========  ======    ========

<FN>

(1)  The  Company  changed  its  fiscal  year  from June 30 to December 31.  The Transition Period represents the six month
      period  from  July  1,  1997  -  December  31,  1997.

</TABLE>


<PAGE>
Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 1998 Compared to the Twelve Months Ended December
31,  1997  (unaudited)

Total  revenues  increased  15.2%  from  $21,224,000 for the twelve months ended
December  31,  1997  to $24,447,000 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998.
The  increase  in  total  revenues  was  primarily attributable to worldwide new
license  and upgrade revenue generated by the Company's Mathcad product line, as
well  as new license and service revenue generated from the S-PLUS product line.

Worldwide  Mathcad product line revenues increased 11.9% from $13,947,000 in the
twelve  months  ended  December 31, 1997 to $15,606,000 during the twelve months
ended  December  31,  1998, but decreased as a percentage of total revenues from
65.7%  to  63.8%  for  the  twelve  months  ended  December  31,  1997 and 1998,
respectively.  The  increase in Mathcad product line revenue is due primarily to
the release of Mathcad 8 (released in September 1998) and Mathcad 7 (released in
June  1997).  To  a  lesser  extent, this increase is also due to the release of
StudyWorks  II  in  March  1998.  Worldwide  S-PLUS  license and service revenue
increased  21.5% from $7,277,000 in the twelve months ended December 31, 1997 to
$8,841,000  during the twelve months ended December 31, 1998, and increased as a
percentage of total revenues from 34.3% to 36.2%, respectively.  The increase in
S-PLUS  product  line revenue is primarily attributable to the release of S-PLUS
4.5  (released  in May 1998) and S-PLUS 4.0 (released in September 1997).  Total
international  revenues,  attributable to all product lines, increased 3.2% from
$6,682,000 in 1997 to $6,897,000 in 1998, and decreased as a percentage of total
revenues  from  31.5%  to  28.2%,  respectively.

Total  cost  of  revenues  decreased  5.3% from $4,482,000 for the twelve months
ended  December  31,  1997 to $4,246,000 during the twelve months ended December
31,  1998,  and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 21.1% to 17.4%,
respectively.  The  decrease  in total cost of revenues as a percentage of total
revenues  was primarily attributable to switching from disk to CD media with the
release  of Mathcad 7 for Windows, thereby decreasing direct material costs on a
per  unit  basis.

Sales  and marketing expenses for the twelve-months ended December 31, 1997 were
$10,413,000  and  remained  relatively consistent as compared to $10,364,000 for
the  fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, and decreased as a percentage of total
revenues  from  49.1%  to  42.4%,  respectively.

Research and development expenses decreased 11.1% from $5,581,000 for the twelve
months  ended  December  31,  1997  to  $4,964,000  during the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1998, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 26.3% to
20.3%,  respectively.  The  decrease  in  research  and development expenses was
primarily  attributable  to  a  decrease  in  consulting  costs  associated with
development  initiatives in the Company's Data Analysis Products Division and an
increase  in  research  contribution.

General  and  administrative  expenses  decreased  6.7%  from $2,909,000 for the
twelve months ended December 31, 1997 to $2,713,000 during the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1998, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 13.7% to
11.1%,  respectively.  The  decrease  in  overall  general  and  administrative
expenses was primarily attributable to decreases in foreign currency transaction
losses.

Net  income  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 was $2,220,000 compared
to  a  net  loss  of  $2,129,000  for the twelve months ended December 31, 1997.
Improved  performance  from  the  recently  refreshed Mathcad and S-PLUS product
line,  coupled  with  margin  improvements  and  management control of operating
expenses  contributed  to  this  improvement  in  profit.

<PAGE>

Fiscal  Year Ended December 31, 1998 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1997

Total revenues increased 38.3% from $17,678,000 for the twelve months ended June
30,  1997  to  $24,447,000  for  the  fiscal year ended December 31, 1998.  This
increase  in  total revenues was primarily attributable to worldwide new license
and upgrade revenue generated by the Mathcad product line as well as new license
and  service  revenue  generated  from  the  S-PLUS  product  line.

Worldwide  Mathcad  product  line  sales increased 31.7% from $11,850,000 in the
twelve  months  ended  June 30, 1997 to $15,606,000 during the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1998, but decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 67.0% to
63.8%,  respectively.  The  twelve  months ended December 31, 1998 had increased
revenue  associated  with  Mathcad  8 (released in September 1998) and Mathcad 7
(released  in June 1997).  Worldwide S-PLUS product line revenue increased 51.7%
from  $5,828,000  in  the twelve months ended June 30, 1997 to $8,841,000 during
the  fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, and increased as a percentage of total
revenues  from  33.0% to 36.2%, respectively.  S-PLUS product line had increased
license  and  services revenue in the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 due to
the  release  of  S-PLUS  4.5 (released in May 1998) and S-PLUS 4.0 (released in
September  1997).  Total  international  revenues,  attributable  to all product
lines,  increased  14.6%  from  $6,017,000  in  1997  to $6,897,000 in 1998, and
decreased  as  a percentage of total revenues from 34.0% to 28.2%, respectively.

Total  cost  of  revenues  increased  7.6% from $3,946,000 for the twelve months
ended  June  30,  1997  to  $4,246,000 during the fiscal year ended December 31,
1998,  and  decreased  as  a  percentage  of total revenues from 22.3% to 17.4%,
respectively.  The  decrease  in total cost of revenues as a percentage of total
revenues  was primarily attributable to switching from disk to CD media with the
release  of Mathcad 7 for Windows, thereby decreasing direct material costs on a
per  unit  basis.

Sales  and  marketing  expenses  for  the twelve-months ended June 30, 1997 were
$10,251,000  and  remained relatively consistent compared to $10,364,000 for the
fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1998, but decreased as a percentage of total
revenues  from  58.0%  to  42.4%,  respectively.

Research  and development expenses decreased 3.5% from $5,143,000 for the twelve
months  ended  June 30, 1997 to $4,964,000 during the fiscal year ended December
31,  1998,  and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 29.1% to 20.3%.
The  decrease in research and development expenses was primarily attributable to
a  decrease  in  consulting costs associated with development initiatives in the
Company's  Data  Analysis  Products  Division  and  an  increase  in  research
contribution.

General and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 were
$2,732,000  and remained consistent at $2,713,000 during the twelve months ended
December 31, 1998, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 15.5% to
11.1%,  respectively.  The  consistency  in  expenditures  and  reduction  as  a
percentage  of  total  revenues  was due to management efforts to control costs.

Net  income  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 was $2,220,000 compared
to  net  loss of $4,300,000 for the twelve months ended June 30, 1997.  Improved
performance from the recently refreshed Mathcad and S-PLUS product lines coupled
with  margin  improvements  contributed  to  this  increase  in  profit.



<PAGE>






Transition Period Ended December 31, 1997 Compared to the Six-Month Period Ended
December  31,  1996  (unaudited)

Total revenues increased 37.4% from $9,478,000 for the six months ended December
31,  1996  to  $13,024,000 during the Transition Period.  This increase in total
revenues  was primarily attributable to upgrade revenue generated by the release
of Mathcad 7 for Windows in June 1997, new license revenue generated from S-PLUS
4.0  released in September 1997, and to a lesser extent, S-PLUS service revenue.

Mathcad  for Windows generated upgrade revenue of $680,000 during the six months
ended  December  31,  1996  compared to upgrade revenue of $2,677,000 during the
Transition  Period,  an  increase as a percentage of total revenues from 7.2% to
20.6%,  respectively.  Prior  to  the  release  of Mathcad 7 for Windows in June
1997,  the  Company's  last  significant  upgrade,  Mathcad 6.0 for Windows, was
released  approximately  twenty-three  months earlier in July 1995 and therefore
upgrade  revenue  was  much  lower  in  the  six months ended December 31, 1996.
Worldwide  S-PLUS  product  line revenue increased 39.4% from $2,531,000 for the
six  months  ended December 31, 1996 to $3,529,000 during the Transition Period,
and  increased  as  a  percentage  of  total  revenues  from  26.7%  to  27.1%,
respectively.   Worldwide  S-PLUS service revenue increased 167.7% from $269,000
in  the  six  months  ended  December 31, 1996 to $720,000 during the Transition
Period,  and  increased  as  a  percentage  of total revenues from 2.8% to 5.5%,
respectively.  Total  international revenues, attributable to all product lines,
increased  20.9%  from  $3,182,000  in  1996 to $3,846,000 during the Transition
Period,  and  decreased  as  a percentage of total revenues from 33.6% to 29.5%,
respectively.

Total  cost of revenues for the six-month period increased 27.0% from $1,983,000
for  the  six months ended December 31, 1996 to $2,519,000 during the Transition
Period,  and  decreased  as  a percentage of total revenues from 20.9% to 19.3%,
respectively.  The  decrease  in total cost of revenues as a percentage of total
revenues  was primarily attributable to switching from disk to CD media with the
release  of Mathcad 7 for Windows, thereby decreasing direct material costs on a
per  unit  basis.  To  a lesser degree, fixed costs, such as licensing costs for
the  "S"  language  used  in  the  S-PLUS  product  line and the amortization of
purchased  technology,  decreased  as  a  percentage of total revenues due to an
overall  higher  revenue base during the Transition Period.  Such decreases were
partially  offset by an increase in the inventory provision  to adequately cover
excess  inventory exposure and an increase in cost of services from $404,000 for
the  six months ended December 31, 1996 to $702,000 during the Transition Period
consistent  with  the  increase  in  service  revenue.

Sales  and  marketing expenses increased 3.2% from $5,007,000 for the six months
ended  December  31,  1996  to  $5,169,000  during  the  Transition  Period, and
decreased  as  a percentage of total revenues from 52.8% to 39.7%, respectively.
The  increase  in  sales  and  marketing  expenses was primarily attributable to
expenses incurred related to the launch of Mathcad 7 for Windows and S-PLUS 4.0,
as  well  as  an  increase in S-PLUS domestic sales expenses incurred to support
direct  sales  of  this  expanding  product  line.

Research  and  development  expenses increased 18.4% from $2,378,000 for the six
months  ended  December 31, 1996 to $2,816,000 during the Transition Period, and
decreased  as  a percentage of total revenues from 25.1% to 21.6%.  The increase
in  overall  research  and  development  expenses  was primarily attributable to
expenses  related  to  development  initiatives  in  the Company's Data Analysis
Products  Division and additional personnel to support such initiatives, as well
as  an increase in international product translation costs for Mathcad 7 French,
German  and  Japanese.

<PAGE>

General  and administrative expenses increased 14.3% from $1,241,000 for the six
months  ended  December  31, 1996 to $1,418,000 during the Transition Period and
decreased  as  a percentage of total revenues from 13.1% to 10.9%, respectively.
The  increase  in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable
to  costs  incurred  for  management  incentive  compensation  provisions  based
primarily  on  the achievement of profitability targets, and to a lesser extent,
to  fluctuations  in  international  exchange  rate  transactions.

Net  income  for  the  Transition  Period was $1,105,000 compared to net loss of
$1,066,000  for  the  six  months ended December 31, 1996.  Improved performance
from  the  refreshed  Mathcad  and  S-PLUS  product  lines  coupled  with margin
improvements  all  contributed  to  this  improvement  in  profit.

Fiscal  Year  Ended  June  30,  1997 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1996

Total  revenues  decreased 14.9% from $20,767,000 for the fiscal year ended June
30,  1996 ("Fiscal 1996") to $17,678,000 for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997
("Fiscal 1997").  The decrease in total revenues was primarily attributable to a
worldwide  decrease  in  both  new  license and upgrade revenue generated by the
Company's  core product, Mathcad for Windows, and to a lesser extent, a decrease
in  sales of Electronic Books, which work with Mathcad, and a decrease in S-PLUS
product line and services revenue.  The decrease in total revenues was partially
offset  by  revenue  generated  by  the  release of Mathcad 6.0 for Macintosh in
November  1996,  revenue  generated  by the StudyWorks! product line released in
June  1996  and  revenue  generated  from  the Axum product line acquired in the
second  quarter  of  Fiscal  1996.





Mathcad  for  Windows  generated  upgrade  revenue  of $4,287,000 in Fiscal 1996
compared  to  upgrade  revenue  of  $1,388,000  in  Fiscal 1997, a decrease as a
percentage  of  total  revenues  from 20.6% to 7.9%, respectively.  Prior to the
release  of  Mathcad  7 for Windows in June 1997, the Company's last significant
upgrade, Mathcad 6.0 for Windows, was released approximately twenty-three months
earlier  during  the  fiscal  year  ended  June  30, 1995, and its upgrade cycle
therefore  came  to  a  close  in  Fiscal  1997.  Worldwide  Mathcad for Windows
non-upgrade revenue decreased 13.8% from $7,377,000 in Fiscal 1996 to $6,359,000
in  Fiscal  1997  due  primarily  to  the  Company's  distribution  channel's
anticipation  of  the delivery of the next major release of Mathcad for Windows,
Mathcad  7 for Windows, and decreasing sell-through of the older Mathcad 6.0 for
Windows  release.  Worldwide  S-PLUS product line and services revenue decreased
8.7%  from $5,904,000 in Fiscal 1996 to $5,389,000 in Fiscal 1997, and increased
as  a  percentage  of  total  revenues  from  28.4%  to 30.5%, respectively. The
decrease  in  S-PLUS  product  line  and  services revenue was attributable to a
reduction in license revenue, due to a material shift from UNIX license sales to
lower  priced  Windows  license sales, and to the discontinuance of unprofitable
S-PLUS  services revenue.  Moreover, the product line reached its fourth year of
life  without a major new release, resulting in sluggish new license sales prior
to  the  delivery of S-PLUS 4.0 in September 1997.  Revenues attributable to the
Axum  product  line  acquired  in  the TriMetrix, Inc. acquisition accounted for
$676,000,  or  3.3% of total revenues, in Fiscal 1996 compared to $1,023,000, or
5.8%  of  total  revenues,  in  Fiscal  1997.  Total  international  revenues
attributable  to  sales  of  all  Company  product  lines  decreased  10.9% from
$6,756,000  in  Fiscal  1996  to  $6,018,000  in Fiscal 1997, and increased as a
percentage  of  total  revenues  from  32.5%  to  34.0%,  respectively.

<PAGE>

Total  cost  of  revenues  decreased  1.4%  from  $4,000,000  in  Fiscal 1996 to
$3,946,000  in Fiscal 1997, and increased as a percentage of total revenues from
19.3%  to  22.3%,  respectively.  The  increase  in  total cost of revenues as a
percentage  of  total  revenues  was  primarily  attributable  to a reduction of
inventory  reserves  in  Fiscal  1996 based on an evaluation of actual inventory
exposure and reserve requirements.  In contrast, the Company increased inventory
reserves  in  Fiscal  1997  to  adequately cover inventory exposure in the sales
distribution  channel  as the Company prepared to release its next major upgrade
of  Mathcad,  Mathcad 7 for Windows.  In addition, fixed licensing costs for the
"S"  language used in the S-PLUS product line increased in Fiscal 1997 per terms
of  the  license  agreement  and  other fixed costs, such as the amortization of
purchased  technology,  increased  as  a  percentage  of  total  revenues  by
approximately  1.5%  due  to  an  overall  lower  revenue  base  in Fiscal 1997.

Sales  and  marketing  expenses increased 5.5% from $9,719,000 in Fiscal 1996 to
$10,251,000 in Fiscal 1997, and increased as a percentage of total revenues from
46.8%  to  58.0%,  respectively.  The  increase  in  overall sales and marketing
expenses  was  attributable to marketing expenses incurred related to the Fiscal
1997 launch of the StudyWorks! product line, Mathcad 6.0 for Macintosh and, most
recently,  Mathcad  7  for Windows, as well as to an increase in S-PLUS domestic
sales  expenses  as  the Company reorganized its sales infrastructure to support
direct  sales  into  this  expanding  product  line.  International  sales  and
marketing  expenses  increased 3.8% from $2,285,000 in Fiscal 1996 to $2,372,000
in  Fiscal  1997.

Research and development expenses increased 40.6% from $3,659,000 in Fiscal 1996
to  $5,143,000  in  Fiscal 1997, and increased as a percentage of total revenues
from  17.6% to 29.1%.  The increase in overall research and development expenses
was  primarily  attributable  to  increased  personnel  and  consulting  costs
associated  with  the  continued expansion and development of the S-PLUS product
line,  specifically related to the first release of StatServer in April 1997 and
the  impending  release  of  S-PLUS  4.0  in  September  1997.

General  and  administrative  expenses increased 11.3% from $2,455,000 in Fiscal
1996  to  $2,732,000  in  Fiscal  1997  and  increased  as a percentage of total
revenues from 11.8% to 15.5%, respectively.  The increase in overall general and
administrative  expenses  was  primarily  attributable  to  fluctuations  in
international  exchange  rate  transactions.  The Company recorded exchange rate
losses of $12,000 in Fiscal 1996 compared to exchange rate losses of $257,000 in
Fiscal  1997.

Net  loss for Fiscal 1997 was $4,300,000 compared to net income of $1,076,000 in
Fiscal  1996.  Fiscal  1997  reflected  a  year of investment for the Company as
evidenced  by  its commitment to strategic development initiatives, most notably
in  the  Company's Data Analysis Products Division.  The release of new products
with  new  product  cycles  will  support renewed growth in both the Mathcad and
S-PLUS  product  lines.

<PAGE>

Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources

Cash  and  cash equivalents, totaling $5,707,000 at December 31, 1998, increased
$1,573,000  during  the  fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, from $4,134,000 at
December 31, 1997.  The positive cash flow resulted primarily from cash provided
by  operating  activities  of $2,163,000 and proceeds from the exercise of stock
options  of  $369,000  which were offset by purchases of property, equipment and
other  assets  of  $1,098,000.





The  Company  generated  $2,163,000 in cash from operating activities during the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1998.  The cash generated by operating activities
was  primarily  attributable to net income of approximately $2,220,000, non-cash
depreciation  and  amortization  charges,  and  an increase in deferred revenue,
offset  by an increase in accounts receivable.  Accounts receivable and deferred
revenue  increased  primarily  due to the growth in the Company's business.  The
Company used $1,098,000 in investing activities primarily due to the purchase of
$624,000  of  property  and  equipment,  and  the purchase of certain intangible
assets  for  $382,000.  Proceeds  generated  from  capital lease obligations and
equipment  financing and the exercise of stock options of $815,000 and $369,000,
respectively, were offset by payments on capital lease obligations and equipment
financing  of  $641,000.

The Company's financial reserves are represented by cash and cash equivalents as
of  December  31,  1998.  The  Company  has  a  line  of credit agreement with a
commercial  bank.  Borrowings under the line are limited to the lesser of 65% of
eligible  domestic  accounts  or  $1,000,000  based  on  certain  profitability
covenants.  Borrowings  are secured by substantially all of the Company's assets
and bear interest at the bank's prime rate plus 1%.  The line of credit contains
certain  restrictive  covenants,  including  minimum  amounts  of profitability,
equity,  leverage and liquidity, all as defined in the agreement.  There were no
amounts  outstanding  under  this  line  at  December  31, 1998.   This line was
renewed  on  February  24,  1999 and now expires on April 30, 2000.   Borrowings
under  this  renewed  line are limited to the lesser of 80% of eligible domestic
accounts or $2,000,000 based on certain profitability covenants.  Borrowings are
secured  by  substantially  all of the Company's assets and bear interest at the
bank's  prime  rate  plus  0.5%.

The  Company  believes  its  financial  reserves  and  cash  flows  from  future
operations  will  be  sufficient to meet its liquidity requirements for at least
the next twelve months.  The foregoing statement is forward-looking and involves
risks  and  uncertainties,  many of which are outside the Company's control. The
Company's  actual  experience  may  differ materially from that discussed above.
Factors  that  might  cause  such  a difference include, but are not limited to,
those discussed in "Cautionary Statements" in this Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended  December  31,  1998  as  well  as  future  events that have the effect of
reducing  the Company's available cash balances, such as unanticipated operating
losses  or  capital  expenditures,  cash expenditures related to possible future
acquisitions,  or  investment  in  new products or services.  The Company may be
presented  from  time  to  time  with  acquisition  opportunities  that  require
additional  external  financing,  and  the Company may from time to time seek to
obtain  additional  funds  from  public  or  private  issuance of equity or debt
securities.  There can be no assurance that any such financing will be available
at  all  or  on  terms  favorable  to  the  Company.


<PAGE>

Year  2000  Readiness  Disclosure  Statement


Many  currently  installed  computer  systems and software products are coded to
accept  only  two  digit entries in the date code field.  These date code fields
will  need  to  accept four digit entries to distinguish 21st century dates from
20th  century dates.  As a result, many companies' software and computer systems
may  need  to  be  upgraded or replaced in order to comply with such "Year 2000"
requirements.  MathSoft  is in the process of evaluating and correcting the Year
2000  compliance  of  its  proprietary  products  and  services  and third party
equipment  and  software that it uses, as well as its non-information technology
systems,  such  as  building  security,  voice  mail  and  other  systems.

The Company's Year 2000 compliance efforts consist of the following phases:  (i)
identification  of  all  software  products,  information technology systems and
non-information  technology  systems;  (ii)  assessment of repair or replacement
requirements; (iii) repair or replacement; (iv) testing; (v) implementation; and
(vi)  creation  of  contingency  plans  in the event of Year 2000 failures.  The
Company  has  completed  phase  (i) and has substantially completed phase  (ii).
The Company expects to substantially complete phase(iii) by June 1999 and phases
(iv),  (v)  and  (vi)  of  its  Year  2000 compliance efforts by September 1999.

To  date,  the  Company  has not incurred any material expenditure in connection
with  identifying  or  evaluating  Year  2000  compliance  issues.  Preliminary
estimates  regarding  expected  costs  to MathSoft for evaluating and correcting
Year  2000  issues are in the range of $450,000 to $850,000, but there can be no
assurance  that  the  costs  will  not  exceed  such  amounts.  The  Company's
expectations regarding Year 2000 remediation efforts will evolve as it continues
to  analyze and correct its systems.  The Company has not yet developed a formal
Year  2000-specific  contingency  plan.  The  Company expects that a formal Year
2000  contingency  plan  will  evolve  as  it completes its Year 2000 compliance
efforts.  Failure by the Company to resolve Year 2000 issues with respect to its
products  and  services  could  have  a material adverse effect on the Company's
business, results of operation and financial condition.  Furthermore, failure of
third-party  equipment  or software to operate properly with regards to the year
2000  and  thereafter  could require MathSoft to incur significant unanticipated
expenses  to  remedy  any  problems.






<PAGE>

ITEM  7A.  QUANTITATIVE  AND  QUALITATIVE  DISCLOSURES  ABOUT  MARKET  RISK

     Not  applicable.


ITEM  8.     FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA.

See  Item 14 and the Index therein for a listing of the financial statements and
supplementary  data  as  part  of  this  Report.


ITEM  9.     CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE.

Not  applicable.

<PAGE>


                                    PART III

ITEM  10.  DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS

Information with respect to this item may be found under the caption
"Occupations  of  Directors and Executive Officers" appearing in the Company's
definitive  proxy  statement to  be filed  with  the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission  not  later than  120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended
December  31,  1998. Such information  is  incorporated  here  by  reference.

ITEM  11.  EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION

Information  with  respect  to  this  item  may  be  found  under  the  caption
"Compensation and Other Information Concerning Directors and Officers" appearing
in  the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year
ended  December  31,  1998.  Such information is incorporated here by reference.

ITEM  12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF  CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS  AND  MANAGEMENT

Information with respect to this item may be found under the caption "Management
and  Principal  Holders  of  Voting  Securities"  appearing  in  the  Company's
definitive  proxy  statement  to  be  filed  with  the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission  not  later  than  120  days after the close of the fiscal year ended
December  31,  1998.  Such  information  is  incorporated  here  by  reference.

ITEM  13.  CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS

Information  with  respect  to this item may be found under the caption "Certain
Relationships  and  Related  Transactions" appearing in the Company's definitive
proxy  statement  to  be  filed  with the Securities and Exchange Commission not
later  than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998.
Such  information  is  incorporated  here  by  reference.




<PAGE>
                                     PART IV




ITEM  14.  EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL  STATEMENT  SCHEDULES,  AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a)     The  following  documents  are  filed  as  a  part  of this report:

          1.     Financial  Statements.  The  following  consolidated  financial
          statements  of  the Company and Independent Auditors Report are filed 
          as part of this  report.

          Report  of  Independent  Public  Accountants

          Consolidated  Balance  Sheets  as  of  December  31,  1998  and  1997

          Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31,
          1998, the year ended December 31, 1997 (unaudited), the six-month
          period ended December 31, 1997 and for the years ended June 30, 1997 
          and 1996

         Consolidated  Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
         June 30, 1997 and 1996, the six-month period ended December 31, 1997 
         and for the year ended  December  31,  1998

         Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31,
         1998, the year ended December  31, 1997  (unaudited), the six-month 
         period ended December 31, 1997 and for the years ended June 30, 1997 
         and 1996

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

        2.     Financial Statement Schedules. The following financial
        statement schedule is filed as part of this report and should be read
        in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of the Company

          Schedule  II     Valuation  and  Qualifying  Accounts

          All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
          required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements
          or notes thereto.


          3.     Exhibits.

2.1     Asset  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  as  of  June  30,  1993  among  the
Registrant,  Statistical  Sciences,  Inc.,  a  Washington  corporation,  and the
Stockholders  listed  on  Schedule  I  thereto  (filed  as  Exhibit  2.1  to the
Registrant's  Current  Report  on  Form 8-K dated June 30, 1993 and incorporated
herein  by  reference).

3.1     Third Restated Articles of Organization of the Company (filed as Exhibit

3.2  to  Registration  Statement  number  33-55658  on Form S-1 and incorporated
herein  by  reference).

3.2     Amended  and  Restated  By-laws  of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to
Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

4.1     Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock (filed as Exhibit 4.1
to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

4.2     Please  refer  to  Article  VI  of  Exhibit  3.1.

10.1     Amended  and  Restated  1992  Stock  Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit  10.1 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.2     1987  Combination  Stock  Plan,  as  amended  (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.3     Form  of  Key  Officer Stock Option Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.4     1992  Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit  10.4  to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.5     1992  Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.6     Lease dated August 12, 1988, as amended to date, between Registrant and
Jonathan G. Davis, Trustee of the Broadway/Hampshire Development Trust (filed as
Exhibit  10.6  to  Registration  Statement  number  33-55658  on  Form  S-1  and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.7     Third Party Software Distribution Agreement, dated January 30, 1989, as
amended,  between  the Company, University of Waterloo, Waterloo Maple Software,
Inc.  et al. (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on
Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.8     Commitment  Letter,  dated  August  28,  1992,  between the Company and
Silicon  Valley  Bank  (filed  as  Exhibit 10.8 to Registration Statement number
33-55658  on  Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.9     Third  Schedule  to  the  Series  C Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement,
dated  as  of  June  29,  1989, among the Company and the Investors named in the
First  Schedule  Annexed  Thereto,  regarding  certain  registration  rights and
related matters (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to Registration Statement number 33-55658
on  Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.10     Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 18, 1987, between the Company
and  Micro  D, Inc., a predecessor to Ingram Micro, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.10
to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.11     Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint Venture and MathSoft, Inc.,
dated  as  of  August  17, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Annual Report on Form
10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  June  30,  1993,  file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.12     Lease Agreement with the Bartell Drug Co. (Landlord), dated as of June
22, 1990, together with Addendum Nos. A, B, C & D of even date and as amended by
Addendum  No.  E dated December 9, 1992 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Annual Report
on  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.13     Software  License  Agreement  with  American  Telephone  &  Telegraph
Company,  effective  as of April 1, 1991, as amended February 18, 1993 (filed as
Exhibit  10.13  to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1993,  file  number  0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).*

10.14     Distributor Agreement with Mathematical Systems Institute, Inc., dated
August  24,  1990  (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Annual Report of Form 10-K for the
fiscal  year  ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein
by  reference).

10.15     Distributorship  Agreement  dated  as  of  March  1,  1994 between the
Company and 766884 Ontario Inc., carrying on business as Waterloo Maple Software
(filed  as Exhibit 10.15 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
ended  March  31,  1994,  file  number  0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by
reference).*

<PAGE>

10.16     Perpetual  Technology License dated as of March 1, 1994, as amended by
Addendum  No.  1  thereto  dated  as  of March 25, 1994, between the Company and
766884  Ontario  Inc., carrying on business as Waterloo Maple Software (filed as
Exhibit  10.16  to  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
March  31,  1994,  file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10.17     Line  of Credit Agreement, dated January 11, 1996, between the Company
and  Fleet  Bank  of Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1996, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.18     Consulting  Agreement  dated  March  26,  1996 between the Company and
Allen  M.  Razdow  (filed as Exhibit 10.18 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal  year  ended June 30, 1996, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein
by  reference).

10.19     Software  License  Agreement,  dated  February  18,  1996, between the
Company  and Lucent Technologies Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report
on  Form  10-Q  for  the  fiscal  quarter  ended  December 31, 1996, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).*

10.20     Amendment  to  Software  License  Agreement, dated September 25, 1997,
between  the  Company  and  Lucent  Technologies  Inc.*

10.21     Executive  Agreement,  dated  as of July 28, 1997, between the Company
and  Charles  J.  Digate  (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q  for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1997, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).#

10.22     Option Acceleration Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1997, between
the Company and Robert P. Orlando (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report
on  Form  10-Q  for  the  fiscal  quarter  ended September 30, 1997, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).#

10.23     Amended  and  Restated  Executive  Agreement  dated as of November 23,
1998,  between  the  Company  and  Charles  J.  Digate.

10.24     Amendments  to Agreement of Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint
Venture  and MathSoft, Inc., dated as of October 23, 1998 and November 30, 1998,
respectively.

10.25     Amended  Line of Credit Agreement dated February 24, 1999, between the
Company  and  Fleet  Bank  of  Massachusetts.

21.1     Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant.

23.1     Consent  of  Arthur  Andersen  LLP

*  Confidential  treatment  as  to  portions of the filed exhibit was previously
granted.

#  Management contract or compensatory arrangement required to be filed pursuant
to  Item  14(c)  of  Form  10-K
<PAGE>

     (b)     Reports  on  Form  8-K.

The  Company  filed  a Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 16, 1998 reporting
fiscal  first  quarter  results.

The  Company  filed  a  Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 22, 1998 reporting
fiscal  second  quarter  results.

The  Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 13, 1998 reporting
fiscal  third  quarter  results.


<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its  behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.

     MATHSOFT,  INC.

March 30, 1999 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  By: /s/ Charles J. Digate
                                                     -------------------------
                                                             Charles J. Digate
                               Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer


     Pursuant  to  the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by  the  following  persons  on  behalf of the
registrant  and  in  the  capacities  and  on  the  dates  indicated.



March 30, 1999 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  /s/ Charles H. Federman
                                                       -----------------------
                                                           Charles H. Federman
                                                                      Director


March 30, 1999 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        .      /s/ David D. Martin
                                                       -----------------------
                                                               David D. Martin
                                                                      Director


March 30, 1999 . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .   . . . .  /s/ Robert P. Orlando
                                                       -----------------------
                                                             Robert P. Orlando
                                   Vice President Finance and Administration, 
                                  Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Clerk
                                  (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)

March 30, 1999 . . . . . . . . . . .                        /s/ June L. Rokoff
                                                       -----------------------
                                                                June L. Rokoff
                                                                      Director




<PAGE>

                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT  NO.     DESCRIPTION

2.1     Asset  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  as  of  June  30,  1993  among  the
Registrant,  Statistical  Sciences,  Inc.,  a  Washington  corporation,  and the
Stockholders  listed  on  Schedule  I  thereto  (filed  as  Exhibit  2.1  to the
Registrant's  Current  Report  on  Form 8-K dated June 30, 1993 and incorporated
herein  by  reference).

3.1     Third Restated Articles of Organization of the Company (filed as Exhibit

3.2  to  Registration  Statement  number  33-55658  on Form S-1 and incorporated
herein  by  reference).

3.2     Amended  and  Restated  By-laws  of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to
Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

4.1     Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock (filed as Exhibit 4.1
to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

4.2 Please  refer  to  Article  VI  of  Exhibit  3.1.

10.1     Amended  and  Restated  1992  Stock  Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit  10.1 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.2     1987  Combination  Stock  Plan,  as  amended  (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.3     Form  of  Key  Officer Stock Option Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.4     1992  Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan  (filed  as  Exhibit  10.4  to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.5     1992  Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to
Registration  Statement  number  33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.6     Lease dated August 12, 1988, as amended to date, between Registrant and
Jonathan G. Davis, Trustee of the Broadway/Hampshire Development Trust (filed as
Exhibit  10.6  to  Registration  Statement  number  33-55658  on  Form  S-1  and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.7     Third Party Software Distribution Agreement, dated January 30, 1989, as
amended,  between  the Company, University of Waterloo, Waterloo Maple Software,
Inc.  et al. (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on
Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.8     Commitment  Letter,  dated  August  28,  1992,  between the Company and
Silicon  Valley  Bank  (filed  as  Exhibit 10.8 to Registration Statement number
33-55658  on  Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).


10.9     Third  Schedule  to  the  Series  C Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement,
dated  as  of  June  29,  1989, among the Company and the Investors named in the
First  Schedule  Annexed  Thereto,  regarding  certain  registration  rights and
related matters (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to Registration Statement number 33-55658
on  Form  S-1  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.10     Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 18, 1987, between the Company
and  Micro  D, Inc., a predecessor to Ingram Micro, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.10
to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.11     Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint Venture and MathSoft, Inc.,
dated  as  of  August  17, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Annual Report on Form
10-K  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  June  30,  1993,  file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

<PAGE>
EXHIBIT  NO.     DESCRIPTION

10.12     Lease Agreement with the Bartell Drug Co. (Landlord), dated as of June
22, 1990, together with Addendum Nos. A, B, C & D of even date and as amended by
Addendum  No.  E dated December 9, 1992 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Annual Report
on  Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.13     Software  License  Agreement  with  American  Telephone  &  Telegraph
Company,  effective  as of April 1, 1991, as amended February 18, 1993 (filed as
Exhibit  10.13  to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1993,  file  number  0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).*

10.14     Distributor Agreement with Mathematical Systems Institute, Inc., dated
August  24,  1990  (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal  year  ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein
by  reference).

10.15     Distributorship  Agreement  dated  as  of  March  1,  1994 between the
Company and 766884 Ontario Inc., carrying on business as Waterloo Maple Software
(filed  as Exhibit 10.15 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
ended  March  31,  1994,  file  number  0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by
reference).*

10.16     Perpetual  Technology License dated as of March 1, 1994, as amended by
Addendum  No.  1  thereto  dated  as  of March 25, 1994, between the Company and
766884  Ontario  Inc., carrying on business as Waterloo Maple Software (filed as
Exhibit  10.16  to  Quarterly  Report  on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
March  31,  1994,  file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10.17     Line  of Credit Agreement, dated January 11, 1996, between the Company
and  Fleet  Bank  of Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1996, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.18     Consulting  Agreement  dated  March  26,  1996 between the Company and
Allen  M.  Razdow  (filed as Exhibit 10.18 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal  year  ended June 30, 1996, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein
by  reference).

10.19     Software  License  Agreement,  dated  February  18,  1996, between the
Company  and Lucent Technologies Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report
on  Form  10-Q  for  the  fiscal  quarter  ended  December 31, 1996, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).*

10.20     Amendment  to  Software  License  Agreement, dated September 25, 1997,
between  the  Company  and  Lucent  Technologies  Inc.*

10.21     Executive  Agreement,  dated  as of July 28, 1997, between the Company
and  Charles  J.  Digate  (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q  for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1997, file number 0-020992, and
incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.22     Option Acceleration Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1997, between
the Company and Robert P. Orlando (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report
on  Form  10-Q  for  the  fiscal  quarter  ended September 30, 1997, file number
0-020992,  and  incorporated  herein  by  reference).

10.23     Amended  and  Restated  Executive  Agreement  dated as of November 23,
1998,  between  the  Company  and  Charles  J.  Digate.

10.24     Amendments  to Agreement of Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint
Venture  and MathSoft, Inc., dated as of October 23, 1998 and November 30, 1998,
respectively.

10.25     Amended  Line of Credit Agreement dated February 24, 1999, between the
Company  and  Fleet  Bank  of  Massachusetts.


21.1     Subsidiaries  of  the  Registrant.

23.1     Consent  of  Arthur  Andersen  LLP

*  Confidential  treatment  as  to  portions of the filed exhibit was previously
granted.
<PAGE>

                                       F-1

                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                      Index




Report of Independent Public Accountants                                   F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1998 and 1997               F-3

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Year ended December 31,
1998, the Year Ended December 31, 1997 (unaudited), the Six-Month Period 
Ended December 31, 1997 and for the Years Ended June 30, 1997 and 1996     F-5

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Year ended
December 31, 1998, for the Six-Month Period Ended December 31, 1997 and
for the Years Ended June 30, 1997 and 1996                                 F-6

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31,
1998, the Year Ended December 31, 1997 (unaudited), the Six-Month Periods
Ended December 31, 1997 and for the Years Ended June 30, 1997 and 1996     F-7

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                 F-8



<PAGE>
                    Report of Independent Public Accountants



To  MathSoft,  Inc.:

We  have  audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of MathSoft, Inc.
(a Massachusetts corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
and  the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and
cash  flows  for  the  year  ended December 31, 1998, the six-month period ended
December  31,  1997 and each of the two years in the period ended June 30, 1997.
These  consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial  statements  based  on  our  audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant estimates made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a  reasonable  basis  for  our opinion.

In  our  opinion,  the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of MathSoft, Inc. and subsidiaries
as  of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of their operations and their
cash  flows  for  the  year  ended December 31, 1998, the six-month period ended
December  31,  1997,  and for each of the two years in the period ended June 30,
1997,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles.




                                                       /s/ARTHUR  ANDERSEN  LLP


Boston,  Massachusetts
February  24,  1999


<PAGE>










                                       F-3

                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets



                                     ASSETS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                             DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,
<S>                                                                                    <C>            <C>
                                                                                      1998           1997
Current Assets:
Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $   5,706,657  $   4,133,541
Accounts and other receivables, less reserves of approximately $870,000 and
 $1,598,000 at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively . . . . . . . . . .      5,318,087      3,472,334
Inventories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        374,320        255,205
Prepaid expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        342,599        233,714
                                                                             -------------  -------------

Total current assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     11,741,663      8,094,794
                                                                             -------------  -------------

Property and Equipment, at cost:
Computer equipment and software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      4,786,904      4,609,382
Property and equipment under capital lease. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        896,486        615,910
Furniture and fixtures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,036,313      1,012,763
Leasehold improvements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        624,658        626,890
                                                                             -------------  -------------

                                                                                 7,344,361      6,864,945

Less-Accumulated depreciation and amortization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6,082,535      5,315,979
                                                                             -------------  -------------

                                                                                 1,261,826      1,548,966
                                                                             -------------  -------------

Other Assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        488,595        168,390
                                                                             -------------  -------------

                                                                             $  13,492,084  $   9,812,150
                                                                             =============  =============

<FN>

         The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>

<PAGE>







































                                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                             Consolidated Balance Sheets

                                                      (Continued)

                                      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                         DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
<S>                                                                    <C>             <C>
                                                                              1998            1997 
Current Liabilities:
Current portion of capital lease obligations and equipment financing.  $     482,004   $     374,089 
Accounts payable. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2,481,154       2,243,290 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities. . . . . . . . . . . .      2,452,472       2,236,655 
Deferred revenue. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,886,533       1,389,042 
                                                                       --------------  --------------

Total current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      7,302,163       6,243,076 
                                                                       --------------  --------------

Capital Lease Obligations and Equipment Financing,
less current portion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        139,414          73,751 
                                                                       --------------  --------------

Commitments (Note 5)

Stockholders' Equity:
Preferred stock, $.01 par value-
Authorized-1,000,000 shares
Issued and outstanding-none . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              -               - 
Common stock, $.01 par value-
Authorized-20,000,000 shares
Issued and outstanding-9,324,407 and 9,108,616,
shares at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. . . . . . . . . .         93,244          91,086 
Additional paid-in capital. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     29,706,364      29,339,752 
Accumulated deficit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (23,667,397)    (25,887,525)
Cumulative translation adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        (81,704)        (47,990)
                                                                       --------------  --------------

Total stockholders' equity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      6,050,507       3,495,323 
                                                                       --------------  --------------

                                                                       $  13,492,084   $   9,812,150 
                                                                       ==============  ==============

<FN>

       The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>








































                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      Consolidated Statements of Operations
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          SIX-MONTH 
                                                        PERIOD ENDED 
                             YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31      DECEMBER 31,      YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,
                              1998            1997           1997         1997               1996
                                           (Unaudited)
<S>                          <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenues:
Software licenses . . . . .  $20,839,101   $18,039,610   $11,145,569   $15,179,191   $18,155,650 
Services and other. . . . .    3,607,670     3,183,901     1,878,408     2,498,536     2,611,048 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Total revenues. . . . . . .   24,446,771    21,223,511    13,023,977    17,677,727    20,766,698 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Cost of Revenues:
Software licenses . . . . .    2,963,682     3,397,952     1,817,283     3,124,158     3,061,762 
Services and other. . . . .    1,282,085     1,083,887       701,433       821,781       938,596 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Total cost of
revenues. . . . . . . . . .    4,245,767     4,481,839     2,518,716     3,945,939     4,000,358 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Gross profit. . . . . . . .   20,201,004    16,741,672    10,505,261    13,731,788    16,766,340 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Operating Expenses:
Sales and marketing . . . .   10,364,022    10,413,111     5,169,379    10,251,376     9,719,346 
Research and development. .    4,963,618     5,580,584     2,815,601     5,142,751     3,659,171 
General and administrative.    2,712,508     2,909,467     1,418,295     2,731,858     2,454,838 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Total operating
 expenses . . . . . . . . .   18,040,148    18,903,162     9,403,275    18,125,985    15,833,355 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Income (loss) from
 operations . . . . . . . .    2,160,856    (2,161,490)    1,101,986    (4,394,197)      932,985 

Interest Income . . . . . .      168,217       120,399        49,653       153,111       199,049 

Interest Expense. . . . . .      (86,066)      (41,068)      (29,270)      (14,440)       (7,196)
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Income (loss)
 before provision
for income taxes. . . . . .    2,243,007    (2,082,159)    1,122,369    (4,255,526)    1,124,838 

Provision for Income
Taxes . . . . . . . . . . .       22,879        46,655        17,785        44,452        49,000 
                             ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Net income (loss) . . . . .  $ 2,220,128   $(2,128,814)  $ 1,104,584   $(4,299,978)  $ 1,075,838 
                             ============  ============  ============  ============  ============

Basic Net Income (Loss)
 per Share. . . . . . . . .  $       .24   $      (.24)  $       .12   $      (.49)  $       .13 
                             ============  ============  ============  ============  ============

Diluted Net Income
 (Loss) per Share . . . . .  $       .22   $      (.24)  $       .11   $      (.49)  $       .11 
                             ============  ============  ============  ============  ============

Weighted Average
 Number of Shares
Outstanding . . . . . . . .    9,244,307     9,026,376     9,068,714     8,841,170     8,247,036 
                             ============  ============  ============  ============  ============

Weighted Average
Shares Outstanding
Assuming Dilution . . . . .   10,126,758     9,026,376     9,944,283     8,841,170     9,541,580 
                             ============  ============  ============  ============  ============

<FN>

     The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>




<PAGE>





                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                              COMMON STOCK      ADDITIONAL                  CUMULATIVE     TOTAL     Comprehensive
                                          NUMBER OF   $.01 PAR   PAID-IN     ACCUMULATED   TRANSLATION  STOCKHOLDERS'   Income
                                            SHARES      VALUE    CAPITAL        DEFICIT     ADJUSTMENT    EQUITY       

<S>                                       <C>           <C>      <C>          <C>            <C>        <C>           <C>
Balance, June 30, 1995 . . . . . . . . .    7,273,148   $72,731  $24,578,282  $(22,063,531)  $ 36,119   $ 2,623,601   $         - 
Acquisition of TriMetrix, Inc. . . . . .      219,997     2,200       63,700      (486,816)         -      (420,916)            - 
Sale of common stock . . . . . . . . . .      750,000     7,500    2,932,963             -          -     2,940,463             - 
Exercise of stock options, warrants and
Employee Stock Purchase Plan . . . . . .      336,117     3,362      583,613             -          -       586,975             - 
Net income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            -         -            -     1,075,838          -     1,075,838     1,075,838 
Translation adjustment . . . . . . . . .            -         -            -             -    (47,265)      (47,265)      (47,265)
                                                                                                                       ------------
Comprehensive income for the year ended
June 30, 1996. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                              $ 1,028,573 
                                                                                                                      ============

Balance, June 30, 1996 . . . . . . . . .    8,579,262    85,793   28,158,558   (21,474,509)   (11,146)    6,758,696             - 
Acquisition of acroScience Corporation .      250,000     2,500      618,500    (1,217,622)         -      (596,622)            - 
Exercise of stock options and Employee
Stock Purchase Plan. . . . . . . . . . .      177,114     1,771      374,777             -          -       376,548             - 
Compensation associated with issuance of
 stock options . . . . . . . . . . . . .            -         -       10,000             -          -        10,000             - 
Net loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            -         -            -    (4,299,978)         -    (4,299,978)   (4,299,978)
Translation adjustment . . . . . . . . .            -         -            -             -    (80,518)      (80,518)      (80,518)
                                                                                                                      ------------
Comprehensive loss for the year ended
June 30, 1997. . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                              $(4,380,496)
                                                                                                                      ============

Balance, June 30, 1997 . . . . . . . . .    9,006,376    90,064   29,161,835   (26,992,109)   (91,664)    2,168,126             - 
Exercise of stock options and Employee
Stock Purchase Plan. . . . . . . . . . .      102,240     1,022      177,917             -          -       178,939             - 
Net income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            -         -            -     1,104,584          -     1,104,584     1,104,584 
Translation adjustment . . . . . . . . .            -         -            -             -     43,674        43,674        43,674 
                                                                                                                      ------------
Comprehensive income for the six-month
period ended December 31, 1997 . . . .                                                                             .  $ 1,148,258 
                                                                                                                      ============

Balance, December 31, 1997 . . . . . . .    9,108,616    91,086   29,339,752   (25,887,525)   (47,990)    3,495,323 

Exercise of stock options and Employee
Stock Purchase Plan. . . . . . . . . . .      215,791     2,158      366,612             -          -       368,770             - 
Net income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            -         -            -     2,220,128          -     2,220,128     2,220,128 
Translation adjustment . . . . . . . . .            -         -            -             -    (33,714)      (33,714)      (33,714)
                                                                                                                      ------------
Comprehensive income for the year ended
December 31, 1998. . . . . . . . . . . .                                                                              $ 2,186,414 
                                                                                                                      ============

Balance, December 31, 1998 . . . . . . .    9,324,407   $93,244  $29,706,364  $(23,667,397)  $(81,704)  $ 6,050,507 
                                          ============  =======  ===========  =============  =========  ============              
<FN>


The  accompanying  notes  are  an  integral  part  of  these  consolidated  financial  statements.
</TABLE>



























<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  SIX-MONTH 
                                                                PERIOD ENDED 
                                     YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31      DECEMBER 31,      YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,
                                       1998            1997           1997         1997               1996
                                           (Unaudited)
<S>                          <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>

Cash Flows from Operating Activities:
Net income (loss). . . . . . . . . . .  $ 2,220,128   $(2,128,814)  $1,104,584   $(4,299,978)  $ 1,075,838 
Adjustments to reconcile net
 income (loss) To net cash provided
by (used in) Operating activities,
net of acquisitions-
Depreciation and amortization. . . . .    1,065,421     1,166,749      648,866     1,063,503     1,043,052 
Compensation associated with
Issuance of stock options. . . . . . .            -        10,000            -        10,000             - 
Changes in assets and liabilities-
Accounts and other receivables . . . .   (1,845,753)      157,618     (234,522)      643,756    (2,301,420)
Inventories. . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (119,115)      282,054       88,580       210,946      (247,446)
Prepaid expenses . . . . . . . . . . .     (108,885)      212,048      241,811       (93,886)     (172,936)
Accounts payable . . . . . . . . . . .      237,868      (158,596)     206,543       329,822       136,252 
Accrued expenses and other
current liabilities. . . . . . . . . .      215,813       367,039     (399,362)     (252,499)     (754,768)
Deferred revenue . . . . . . . . . . .      497,491       352,207      (54,202)      350,702       (74,285)
                                        ------------  ------------  -----------  ------------  ------------

Net cash provided by
(used in) operating
 activities. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2,162,968       260,305    1,602,298    (2,037,634)   (1,295,713)
                                        ------------  ------------  -----------  ------------  ------------

Cash Flows from Investing Activities:
Decrease in short-term investments . .            -             -            -             -       448,618 
Purchases of property and equipment. .     (624,081)     (754,775)    (423,711)     (780,171)   (1,059,263)
(Increase) decrease in other assets. .     (474,405)      (36,119)     (15,579)      (56,374)       15,688 
Cash acquired from the acroScience
and TriMetrix acquisitions . . . . . .            -             -            -         9,691        27,849 
                                        ------------  ------------  -----------  ------------  ------------

Net cash used in investing
activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   (1,098,486)     (790,894)    (439,290)     (826,854)     (567,108)
                                        ------------  ------------  -----------  ------------  ------------

Cash Flows from Financing Activities:
Payments on long-term debt . . . . . .            -             -            -       (16,000)      (73,188)
Payments on capital lease
obligations and equipment
financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (641,425)     (277,366)    (138,901)     (132,975)      (76,077)
Borrowings on capital lease
 obligations and equipment
financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      815,003       649,838       84,432       565,406             - 
Proceeds from exercise of stock
options, warrants and Employee
Stock Purchase Plan. . . . . . . . . .      368,770       320,169      178,939       376,548       586,975 
Net proceeds from sale of
common stock . . . . . . . . . . . . .            -             -            -             -     2,940,463 
                                        ------------  ------------  -----------  ------------  ------------

Net cash provided by
Financing activities . . . . . . . . .      542,348       692,641      124,470       792,979     3,378,173 
                                        ------------  ------------  -----------  ------------  ------------

Effect of Exchange Rate
Changes on Cash and Cash
Equivalents. . . . . . . . . . . . . .      (33,714)       55,391       43,674       (80,518)      (47,265)
                                        ------------  ------------  -----------  ------------  ------------

Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash
and Cash Equivalents . . . . . . . . .    1,573,116       217,443    1,331,152    (2,152,027)    1,468,087 

Cash and Cash Equivalents,
beginning of period. . . . . . . . . .    4,133,541     3,916,098    2,802,389     4,954,416     3,486,329 
                                        ------------  ------------  -----------  ------------  ------------

Cash and Cash Equivalents,
end of period. . . . . . . . . . . . .  $ 5,706,657   $ 4,133,541   $4,133,541   $ 2,802,389   $ 4,954,416 
                                        ============  ============  ===========  ============  ============

Supplemental Disclosure of
Cash Flow Information:
Cash paid during the period for-
Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $    85,437   $    41,068   $   29,271   $    14,439   $     5,519 
                                        ============  ============  ===========  ============  ============
Income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $    10,000   $    10,511   $    2,981   $     7,530   $    49,220 
                                        ============  ============  ===========  ============  ============
<FN>


Supplemental  Disclosure  of  Noncash  Investing  and  Financing  Activities:

The  Company financed $83,623 and $63,333 of equipment through capital leases in the six-month period ended
December  31,  1997  and
in  the  year  ended  June  30,  1997,  respectively.


          The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>


<PAGE>

                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1998

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)


(1)     Operations  and  Significant  Accounting  Policies

MathSoft,  Inc.  (MathSoft)  was  incorporated  on  October  12, 1984.  MathSoft
develops,  markets  and  supports  software productivity tools for the technical
calculation  and  data analysis markets comprised of professionals, students and
educators.

The  accompanying  consolidated  financial statements reflect the application of
certain  accounting  policies  as  described  in  this note and elsewhere in the
consolidated  financial  statements  and  notes.

The  accompanying  consolidated  financial statements comprise those of MathSoft
and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries  Statistical  Sciences,  Inc.  (StatSci),
TriMetrix,  Inc.  and  acroScience  Corporation (collectively referred to as the
Company).  All  material  intercompany  accounts  and  transactions  have  been
eliminated  in  consolidation.

(a)     Change  In  Fiscal  Year

On  December  16,  1997,  the  Company  changed  its fiscal year from June 30 to
December  31.  Accordingly,  the  Company's  transition  period,  which ended on
December  31,  1997,  was the six-month period from July 1, 1997 to December 31,
1997.  The  unaudited  consolidated  statements of operations and cash flows for
the  year  ended  December 31, 1997 are presented for comparative purposes only.
These  unaudited  statements,  in  the  opinion  of  management,  include  all
adjustments  (consisting only of normal and recurring adjustments) necessary for
fair  presentation  of  results  for  the  period.

(b)     Revenue  Recognition

The  Company derives substantially all of its revenue from technical calculation
software  products  for use on desktop computers.  Revenue from the licensing of
software  products  is recognized when the products are shipped, as there are no
significant  postdelivery  obligations,  and  the Company provides for estimated
returns  and warranty costs at the time of sale.  The Company offers maintenance
contracts and training on StatSci's products.  Maintenance revenue is recognized
ratably  over  the term of the related contracts generally for one year or less.
Training  revenue  is recognized as services are performed.  Amounts received in
advance  for  maintenance  agreements  are  recorded  as deferred revenue on the
accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets.

(c)     Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents

Cash  and  cash  equivalents  are stated at cost, which approximates market, and
consist  of  short-term,  highly  liquid investments with original maturities of
less  than  three  months.  Cash  equivalents  were approximately $4,000,000 and
$1,000,000  as  of  December  31,  1998  and  1997,  respectively, and consisted
primarily  of  investments  in  commercial  paper.

<PAGE>
(d)     Inventories

Inventories  are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market and
consist  of  the  following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                  DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,
                      1998           1997
<S>               <C>            <C>
  Raw materials.  $      98,200  $      44,786
  Finished goods        276,120        210,419
                  -------------  -------------

                  $     374,320  $     255,205
                  =============  =============
</TABLE>



(e)     Depreciation  and  Amortization

The  Company provides for depreciation and amortization by charges to operations
on  a  straight-line  basis,  in  amounts  estimated to allocate the cost of the
assets  over  their  estimated  useful  lives  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


<S>                                <C>                   <C>
 ASSET CLASSIFICATION                      USEFUL LIVES

  Computer equipment and software               3 years
  Furniture and fixtures. . . . .             3-5 years
  Leasehold improvements. . . .        .  Life of lease
</TABLE>



Property  and  equipment  under capital leases are amortized over the shorter of
the  estimated  useful  life  of  three  to five years or the term of the lease.

(f)     Research  and  Development

The  Company  accounts  for  its  software  research  and  development  costs in
accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards (SFAS) No. 86,
Accounting  for  the  Costs of Computer Software To Be Sold, Leased or Otherwise
Marketed.  During  the  year ended December 31, 1998, the six-month period ended
December  31,  1997,  and  the  years  ended June 30, 1997 and 1996, the Company
expensed  all  research  and  development  costs  as  those  costs incurred from
technological  feasibility  to  general  release  were  not  material.

<PAGE>
(g)     Net  Income  (Loss)  Share

The Company reports earnings per share in accordance with SFAS No. 128, Earnings
per  Share.  Under  SFAS  No.  128,  basic net income (loss) per common share is
computed  based  on  net  income (loss) available to common stockholders and the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.  Diluted
net  income  (loss)  per  share  is  computed  based  on including the number of
additional  common  shares  that  would  have  been  outstanding if the dilutive
potential  common  shares  had  been  issued.

A  reconciliation  of  basic  and  diluted  shares  outstanding  is  as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                             SIX-MONTH
                                            YEARS ENDED     PERIOD ENDED     YEARS ENDED
                                               DEC 31,         DEC 31,         JUNE 30,
                                          1998       1997       1997        1997      1996
                                                  (Unaudited)
<S>                        <C>                      <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Weighted average shares
   outstanding. . . . . .                9,244,307  9,026,376  9,068,714  8,841,170  8,247,036
  Effect of dilutive
   securities . . . . . .                  882,451          -    875,569          -  1,294,544
                           -----------------------  ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------

  Weighted average shares
   outstanding assuming
   dilution . . . . . . .               10,126,758  9,026,376  9,944,283  8,841,170  9,541,580
                           =======================  =========  =========  =========  =========
</TABLE>




The  following  securities  were  not included in computing diluted earnings per
share  because  their  effect  would  be  antidilutive:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                       
                                                   SIX-MONTH
                                   YEARS ENDED    PERIOD ENDED     YEARS ENDED
                                     DEC 31,         DEC 31,         JUNE 30,
                                1998       1997       1997        1997      1996
                                        (Unaudited)
<S>                        <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>


  Antidilutive securities      255,586  2,872,292  1,996,723  3,001,562  1,073,824
                           ===========  =========  =========  =========  =========
</TABLE>



(h)     Postretirement  Benefits

The  Company  has  no  obligation  for  postretirement  benefits.

<PAGE>

(i)     Foreign  Currency  Translation

Assets  and  liabilities  of the Company's foreign branch are translated to U.S.
dollars  using the exchange rate at each balance sheet date.  Income and expense
accounts  are  translated  using  an average rate of exchange during the period.
Foreign currency translation adjustments are accumulated as a separate component
of  stockholders'  equity.  The effect of aggregate transaction gains and losses
are  recognized currently in the statements of operations and were approximately
$20,000  and $277,000 in the years ended December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1997
(unaudited),  respectively,  $75,000  in the six-month period ended December 31,
1997,  and  approximately  $(257,000)  and $(12,000) in the years ended June 30,
1997  and  1996,  respectively.

(j)     Other  Assets

Other  assets  are  comprised  primarily  of purchased technology and intangible
assets.  Purchased  technology of $3,008,765 was fully amortized at December 31,
1998 and had accumulated amortization of $2,938,265 at December 31, 1997.  Other
assets  totaled $488,595 and $97,890, net of accumulated amortization of $98,415
and  $7,715  as  of  December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  During 1998, the
Company  purchased  intangible assets for approximately $382,000 and this amount
is  included  in  other  assets  and  is  being  amortized  over  36  months.

The  Company  assesses  the realizability of its long-lived assets in accordance
with  SFAS  No.  121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived  Assets  To  Be  Disposed  Of.  Under  SFAS  No.  121, the Company is
required  to assess the valuation of its long-lived assets, including intangible
assets, based on the estimated cash flows to be generated by such assets.  Based
on its most recent analysis, the Company believes that no material impairment of
intangible  assets  exists  as  of  December  31,  1998.


(k)     Concentration  of  Credit  Risk

SFAS  No.  105,  Disclosure  of  Information  About  Financial  Instruments with
Off-Balance-Sheet  Risk  and Financial Instruments with Concentrations of Credit
Risk,  requires  disclosure of any significant off-balance-sheet and credit risk
concentrations.  The Company's financial instruments that subject the Company to
credit  risk  consist  primarily  of  cash  and  cash  equivalents  and accounts
receivable.  The  Company  maintains  the majority of its cash balances with one
financial  institution.  The  Company  has  not  experienced  significant losses
related  to  accounts  receivable  from  any  individual  customers or groups of
customers  in  any  specific  industry  or  geographic  area.

During  the year ended December 31, 1998 and the six-month period ended December
31,  1997, one customer accounted for 13% and 12% of net revenues, respectively.
One  customer  accounted for 14% and 12% of net revenues in the years ended June
30,  1997  and  1996, respectively.  As of December 31, 1998 the Company had one
customer  that  accounted  for  12%  of accounts receivable.  As of December 31,
1997,  the Company had two customers that individually accounted for 17% and 11%
of  accounts  receivable.

(l)     Use  of  Estimates  and  Uncertainities

The  preparation  of  these consolidated financial statements in conformity with
generally  accepted  accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and  assumptions  that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure  of  contingent  assets  and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported
period.  Actual  results  could  differ  from  those  estimates.

The  Company  is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties similar to those
of  other  companies  of  the  same size within its industry, including, without
limitation,  rapid technological change, competition, and reliance on attracting
and  retaining  key  employees.

(m)     Financial  Instruments

SFAS  No.  107,  Disclosures About Fair Value of Financial Instruments, requires
disclosure  about  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  consisting  of cash,
accounts  receivable  and  capital  leases.  The  estimated  fair value of these
financial  instruments  approximates  their  carrying  value in the accompanying
financial  statements.

(n)     New  Accounting  Standards

In  June  1998,  the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No.
133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  SFAS No. 133
establishes  accounting  and  reporting  standards  for  derivative instruments,
including  certain  derivative  instruments  embedded  in  other  contracts
(collectively  referred to as derivatives) and for hedging activities.  SFAS No.
133  is  effective  for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999.  The Company
does  not expect the adoption of this statement to have a material impact on its
consolidated  financial  position  or  results  of  operations.


(2)     Unaudited  Comparative  Results

The  following  unaudited  financial  information for the six-month period ended
December 31, 1996 is presented to provide comparative results for the transition
period,  included  in  the  accompanying  statement  of  operations.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                    <C>
                                           SIX-MONTH
                                         PERIOD ENDED
                                         DECEMBER 31,
                                            1996 
  (Unaudited)

Total revenues. . . . . . . . . . . .  $   9,478,193 
Gross profit. . . . . . . . . . . . .      7,495,377 
Loss from operations. . . . . . . . .     (1,130,721)
Interest income, net. . . . . . . . .         79,723 
                                       --------------

Loss before provision for income
 taxes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (1,050,998)

Provision for income taxes. . . . . .         15,582 
                                       --------------

Net loss. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $  (1,066,580)
                                       ==============

Basic and diluted net loss per share.  $        (.12)
                                       ==============

Weighted average number of shares
      outstanding . . . . . . . . . .      8,693,148 
                                       ==============

</TABLE>


(3)     Income  Taxes

The  Company  accounts  for  income  taxes  in  accordance  with  SFAS  No. 109,
Accounting  for  Income  Taxes.  Under  this  method,  deferred  tax  assets and
liabilities  are  determined  based  on  the  difference  between  the financial
statement  and  tax  bases of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax
rates.

<PAGE>
The  components  of  domestic and foreign income (loss) before the provision for
income  taxes  are  as  follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     SIX-MONTH
                             YEAR      PERIOD
                             ENDED     ENDED
                             DEC 31,   DEC 31,   YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,
<S>                      <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>
                              1998        1997      1997       1996 

  Domestic               $1,706,031  $  633,233  $(4,011,290)  $  325,215
  Foreign.                  536,976     489,137     (244,236)     799,623
                         ----------  ----------  ------------  ----------

                         $2,243,007  $1,122,370  $(4,255,526)  $1,124,838
                         ==========  ==========  ============  ==========
</TABLE>


The  provisions  for  income  taxes  consist  of  the  following:
                                     
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     SIX-MONTH
                             YEAR      PERIOD
                             ENDED     ENDED
                             DEC 31,   DEC 31,   YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,
<S>                      <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>
                              1998        1997      1997       1996 
  Current tax expense-
  Federal . . . . . . .  $ 763,000   $ 381,000   $     -  $ 340,000 
  State . . . . . . . .    135,000      67,000         -     63,000 
  Foreign . . . . . . .     22,879      17,785    44,452     49,000 

  Deferred tax benefit-
  Federal . . . . . . .   (763,000)   (381,000)        -   (340,000)
  State . . . . . . . .   (135,000)    (67,000)        -    (63,000)
                         ----------  ----------  -------  ----------

                         $  22,879   $  17,785   $44,452  $  49,000 
                         ==========  ==========  =======  ==========
</TABLE>




<PAGE>
The  significant  components  of  the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


<S>                         <C>             <C>
                               DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,
                                     1998            1997 
  Net operating loss
   carryforward. . . . . .  $   5,021,000   $   5,530,000 
  Research and development
   credit carryforwards. .        903,000         711,000 
  Temporary differences. .        566,000         875,000 
                            --------------  --------------

                                6,490,000       7,116,000 

  Valuation allowance. . .     (6,490,000)     (7,116,000)
                            --------------  --------------

  Net deferred tax asset .  $           -   $           - 
                            ==============  ==============
</TABLE>



Due  to  the uncertainty surrounding the realization of its deferred tax assets,
the  Company  has  recorded  a full valuation allowance against its deferred tax
assets.

At  December  31, 1998, the Company has utilized approximately $3,855,000 of net
operating  loss carryforwards and has available net operating loss carryforwards
of  approximately  $14,767,000  and  tax  credit  carryforwards of approximately
$903,000.  The  net  operating  loss and tax credit carryforwards may be used to
offset  future  federal  taxable  income and federal income taxes, respectively,
through  the  year ending December 31, 2013.  The Internal Revenue Code contains
provisions  that limit the net operating loss and credit carryforwards available
to  be  used  in any given year upon the occurrence of certain events, including
significant  changes  in  ownership  interests.

(4)     Equipment  Financing  and  Capital  Leases

During  1998,  the  Company  entered into several financing arrangements for the
purchase  of  fixed  assets  totaling $815,000, of which $511,929 were equipment
lease  financing arrangements and the remaining were capital leases.  All of the
financing  arrangements  are  payable  in 24 equal monthly payments of principal
plus  interest  ranging  from  10.1%  to  10.7%.


<PAGE>
The  Company  leases  certain  equipment  under  capital leases expiring through
fiscal 2002.  Future minimum payments as of December 31, 1998 under these leases
and  financing  arrangements  are  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

<S>                                                                                      <C>
Year ending December 31,
1999. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $                 522,851
2000. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    133,968
2001. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      7,781
2002. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      7,133
                                                                   -------------------------

  Total minimum lease and financing payments. . . . . . . . . . .                    671,733

  Less-Amount representing interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     50,315
                                                                   -------------------------

  Present value of minimum lease and financing payments . . . . .                    621,418

  Less-Current portion of capital leases and equipment financing.                    482,004
                                                                   -------------------------

                                                                                     139,414
                                                                  ==========================
</TABLE>









(5)     Commitments

In  August  1993,  the  Company  entered into a six-year operating lease for its
facility  in  Cambridge,  Massachusetts.  The lease provides for uneven payments
during  the  six-year  period.  However,  rent  expense is charged to operations
evenly  over  the  leased period.  On November 30, 1998, the Company renewed the
lease  for  a  period  of  five years ending October 2004.  The Company also has
operating  leases  for  its  Seattle and international office spaces and certain
office  equipment.

The  approximate  future  lease  payments  under  the  Company's operating lease
arrangements,  exclusive  of operating costs and net of sublease revenue through
October  2004,  are  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


<S>                            <C>                        <C>         <C>
                                                GROSS      SUBLEASE        NET
                                               OPERATING    RENTAL      OPERATING
                                                 LEASES    RECEIPTS      LEASES
Year ending December 31,
1999. . . . . . . . . . . . .  $                 956,000  $(133,000)  $  823,000
2000. . . . . . . . . . . . .                    416,000          -      416,000
2001. . . . . . . . . . . . .                    353,000          -      353,000
2002. . . . . . . . . . . . .                    350,000          -      350,000
  2003 and thereafter . . . .                    613,000          -      613,000
                               -------------------------  ----------  ----------

  Total future lease payments  $               2,688,000  $(133,000)  $2,555,000
                               =========================  ==========  ==========
</TABLE>


<PAGE>
Rental  expense  under the Company's operating leases was approximately $793,000
and  $786,000  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  1998 and December 31, 1997
(unaudited),  respectively, $430,000 for the six-month period ended December 31,
1997  and  approximately $723,000 and $707,000 for the years ended June 30, 1997
and  1996,  respectively.

(6)     Stockholders'  Equity

(a)     Stock  Option  Plans

The  Company  has  a  stock option plan that was adopted in 1992 (the 1992 Plan)
whereby  the  Board  of  Directors  may  grant  incentive  stock options (ISOs),
nonqualified  stock  options,  awards of common stock and authorizations to make
direct  purchases  of common stock to eligible employees and others, as defined.
ISOs  are  granted  at  a  price  not less than fair market value at the date of
grant.  The  options  typically  vest  over a five-year period.  At December 31,
1998  the  Company had 101,379 options available for future grant under the 1992
Plan.

The  Company  has  a Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan (the 1992 Director's
Plan)  pursuant  to  which  directors  who  are not officers or employees of the
Company  annually  receive  options  to  purchase shares of the Company's common
stock.  A  total  of 160,000 shares of common stock may be issued under the 1992
Director's Plan.  The exercise price of each option equals the fair market value
of the stock on the date of grant.  The options are exercisable upon the earlier
of  one year from the date of grant or the first annual meeting of stockholders,
following  the  date  of  grant  at  which  members  of  the  Board are elected.

The  Board  of  Directors granted Key Officer Stock Options to members of senior
management  of  the  Company  in  1992.  The  Key  Officer  Stock  Options  are
nonqualified,  nonplan  stock  options  exercisable  for an aggregate of 907,556
shares  of common stock at an exercise price of $1.08 per share, the fair market
value  of  the  common  stock on the date of grant.  Each such option expires 11
years  from  the  date  of grant, subject to earlier termination if the optionee
ceases  to  serve the Company other than by reason of death or disability.  Each
Key  Officer  Stock  Option became exercisable upon the closing of the Company's
initial  public  offering.

The  Company  has  a  Non-Qualified,  Non-Officer  Stock  Option  Plan (the 1996
Non-Officer  Plan)  under  which  employees  and  consultants to the Company are
granted  nonqualified  options  to  purchase  stock  in the Company.  A total of
200,000  shares  of  common stock may be issued under the 1996 Non-Officer Plan.
The  vesting of options granted under the 1996 Non-Officer Plan is determined at
the date of grant.  Each option expires 10 years from the date of grant, subject
to earlier termination if the optionee ceases to serve the Company other than by
reason  of  death  or  disability,  and  is  not  transferable.

<PAGE>
As  of  December  31,  1998,  a  total  of 4,698,508 shares of common stock were
reserved for issuance under the Plans, the 1992 Director's Plan, the Key Officer
Stock  Options,  and  the  1996  Non-Officer  Plan.






The  Company  accounts  for  its stock-based compensation plans under Accounting
Principles  Board  Opinion  No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employee, and
has  adopted  the  disclosure-only alternative under SFAS No. 123 for employees,
which  requires disclosure of the pro forma effects on earnings and earnings per
share as if SFAS No. 123 had been adopted, as well as certain other information.
The  Company  has computed the pro forma disclosures required under SFAS No. 123
for  all  stock options granted during fiscal years 1996, 1997 and 1998, and the
six  months  ended December 31, 1997, including the Employee Stock Purchase Plan
using  the  Black-Scholes  option pricing model prescribed by SFAS No. 123.  For
nonemployees,  SFAS  No.  123  requires that the compensation expense calculated
using  the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model be charged to the statement of
operations.  The  value  of  options awarded to nonemployees as determined under
SFAS  No. 123 is not material to the results of operations for both fiscal years
ended  June  30,  1997  and 1996, or for the six-month period ended December 31,
1997.  There  were  no  grants  to  nonemployees for the year ended December 31,
1998.

The  assumptions  used  and  the  weighted  average  information are as follows:



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                       SIX-MONTH
                                                         PERIOD
                                          YEAR ENDED      ENDED            YEARS ENDED
                                           DEC 31,        DEC 31             JUNE  30,
                                            1998           1997          1997          1996

<S>                                        <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Risk-free interest rates. . . . . . . . .   4.53%-5.67%   5.95%-6.61%   6.00%-6.74%   5.61%-6.74%
Expected dividend yield . . . . . . . . .        None          None          None        None
Expected lives. . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5 years       5 years       5 years      5 years 
Expected volatility . . . . . . . . . . .           77%        70%           70%           70%
Weighted average grant-date fair value of
   options granted during the period. . .  $      1.67   $    2.50    $      1.62   $      2.35 
Weighted average remaining contractual
   life of options outstanding. . . . . .   7.16 years    7.76 years    5.10 years    5.53 years 
</TABLE>

<PAGE>
The  effect  of  applying  SFAS  No.  123  would  be  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                         SIX-MONTH
                                           PERIOD
                            YEAR ENDED      ENDED             YEARS ENDED
                               DEC 31,      DEC 31,            JUNE  30,
                                1998         1997          1997          1996

<S>                           <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>
Net income (loss)
     as reported . . . . . .  $2,220,128  $1,104,584  $(4,299,978)  $$1,075,838
                              ==========  ==========  ============  ===========

Pro forma net
      income (loss). . . . .  $1,271,140  $  706,565  $(4,880,616)  $   622,956
                              ==========  ==========  ============  ===========

Basic income (loss)
      per share as reported.  $      .24  $      .12  $      (.49)  $       .13
                              ==========  ==========  ============  ===========

Diluted net income (loss)
per share as reported. . . .  $      .22  $      .11  $      (.49)  $       .11
                              ==========  ==========  ============  ===========

Pro forma basic net income
 (loss) per share. . . . . .  $      .14  $      .08  $      (.55)  $       .07
                              ==========  ==========  ============ ============

Pro forma diluted net
 income (loss) per share . .  $      .13  $      .07  $      (.55)  $       .06
                              ==========  ==========  ============  ===========

</TABLE>



Because  the  method  prescribed by SFAS No. 123 has not been applied to options
granted  prior  to  1995,  the  resulting pro forma compensation cost may not be
representative  of  that  to  be  expected  in  the  future  years.


<PAGE>




The  Company's  stock  option  activity  for  all  plans  is  as  follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


<S>                                 <C>         <C>
                                                    WEIGHTED
                                    NUMBER OF        AVERAGE
                                    SHARES      EXERCISE PRICE

  Outstanding at June 30, 1995 . .  1,922,626   $          1.86
  Granted. . . . . . . . . . . . .    961,434              5.52
  Exercised. . . . . . . . . . . .   (320,452)             1.65
  Canceled . . . . . . . . . . . .   (195,240)             5.53
                                    ----------  ---------------

  Outstanding at June 30, 1996 . .  2,368,368              3.03
  Granted. . . . . . . . . . . . .  1,289,514              2.74
  Exercised. . . . . . . . . . . .   (148,651)             1.64
  Canceled . . . . . . . . . . . .   (507,669)             4.28
                                    ----------  ---------------

  Outstanding at June 30, 1997 . .  3,001,562              2.33
  Granted. . . . . . . . . . . . .    110,900              3.42
  Exercised. . . . . . . . . . . .    (78,770)             1.60
  Canceled . . . . . . . . . . . .   (161,400)             2.35
                                    ----------  ---------------

  Outstanding at December 31, 1997  2,872,292              2.39
  Granted. . . . . . . . . . . . .    721,150              2.67
  Exercised. . . . . . . . . . . .   (161,278)             1.56
  Canceled . . . . . . . . . . . .   (183,658)             3.30
                                    ----------  ---------------

  Outstanding at December 31,1998.  3,248,506   $          2.43
                                    ==========  ===============

  Exercisable at December 31, 1998  1,847,454   $          2.21
                                    ==========  ===============
</TABLE>




<PAGE>
The  following  table  summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December  31,  1998:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                           OPTIONS  OUTSTANDING                       OPTIONS  EXERCISABLE
<C>            <S>             <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
                                   WEIGHTED . .                             WEIGHTED
                                   AVERAGE . .    WEIGHTED                   AVERAGE       WEIGHTED
                 NUMBER OF. . .   REMAINING       AVERAGE     NUMBER OF     REMAINING       AVERAGE
   RANGE OF . . . OPTIONS        CONTRACTUAL       OPTION      OPTIONS      CONTRACTUAL      OPTION
 OPTION PRICES  OUTSTANDING          LIFE          PRICE     EXERCISABLE      LIFE           PRICE

1.00  -  2.03      947,862. . .    5.72 years         1.65     865,112     5.34 years         1.63
2.25  -  4.00    2,158,358. .      7.79 years         2.57     906,056     7.42 years         2.48
5.13  -  6.38      142,286 . . .   7.26 years         5.52      76,286     7.13 years         5.58
               --------------                                ----------                   

                 3,248,506         7.16 years . .     2.43   1,847,454     6.43 years         2.21
               =============                               ===========                        
</TABLE>



(b)     Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan

The  Company  has  an employee stock purchase plan pursuant to which the Company
has  reserved  and  may issue up to 200,000 shares of common stock in semiannual
offerings over a 10-year period.  Shares of common stock are sold at 85% of fair
market  value,  as  defined.  During  the  year  ended December 31, 1998 and the
six-month  period  ended December 31, 1997, the Company issued 54,513 and 23,470
shares  under  the Plan, respectively.  During the years ended June 30, 1997 and
1996,  the  Company  issued  28,463, and 13,065, shares, respectively, under the
Plan.












(7)     Geographic  Data

Revenues  by  geographic  area  were  as  follows  (in  thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                    SIX-MONTH
                              YEAR    PERIOD 
                              ENDED    ENDED     YEARS ENDED
                             DEC 31,   DEC 31,      JUNE  30,
GEOGRAPHIC AREA                1998     1997     1997     1996

<S>               <C>                 <C>      <C>      <C>
United States and
   Canada. . . .  $           17,549  $ 9,177  $11,661  $14,011
  United Kingdom               1,640      977    1,675    1,152
  Germany. . . .                 813      625      648    1,264
  Japan. . . . .                 768      442      849    1,056
  Other. . . . .               3,677    1,803    2,845    3,284
                  ------------------  -------  -------  -------

                  $           24,447  $13,024  $17,678  $20,767
                  ==================  =======  =======  =======
</TABLE>




<PAGE>
(8)     Segment  Reporting

The  Company  adopted  SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise
and  Related  Information,  during  the  fourth  quarter  of 1998.  SFAS No. 131
established  standards  for  reporting  information  about operating segments in
annual  financial  statements  and requires selected information about operating
segments  in  interim  financial  reports  issued  to  stockholders.  It  also
established  standards  for related disclosures about products and services, and
geographic areas.  Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise
about  which  separate  financial  information  is  available  that is evaluated
regularly by the chief operating decision, or decision making group, in deciding
how  to  allocate  resources  and  in  assessing  performance.  MathSoft's chief
operating decision making group consists of the Chief Executive Officer, members
of  Senior  Management  and  the Board of Directors.  The operating segments are
managed  separately  because  each  represents  a  specific  type  of  software
productivity  tools  for  a  specific  market.

MathSoft's  reportable  operating  segments  include  the  Technical Calculation
Software Product line and the Data Analysis Software Product line.  Revenues for
Technical  Calculation  Software  Products  are  derived  from sales of Mathcad,
Electronic  Books,  Extension  Packs  and  StudyWorks.  Revenues  from  the Data
Analysis  Software  Product  line  include  S-PLUS  licenses,  maintenance  and
consulting  services,  add-on  modules  and  StatServer.

The  accounting  policies of the segments are the same as those described in the
summary  of  significant  accounting  policies.  MathSoft  evaluates performance
based  on  stand-alone operating segment net income.  Revenues are attributed to
geographic  areas  based  on  where  the  end  customer is located (see Note 7).

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              SIX-MONTH
                                                      YEAR      PERIOD 
                                                      ENDED     ENDED         YEARS ENDED
                                                     DEC 31,    DEC 31,        JUNE  30,
                                                      1998       1997       1997        1996
                                                                 (In thousands)

<S>                                         <C>                  <C>       <C>       <C>

Segment Revenues:
  Technical Calculation Software Products.  $           15,604   $ 8,776   $11,850   $14,632
  Data Analysis Software Products. . . . .               8,843     4,248     5,828     6,135
                                            -------------------  --------  --------  -------
  Total net revenues . . . . . . . . . . .  $           24,447   $13,024   $17,678   $20,767
                                            ===================  ========  ========  =======

  Segment Income (Loss)
  Technical Calculation Software Products.  $            2,366   $ 1,353   $(1,753)  $   698
  Data Analysis Software Products. . . . .                (146)     (248)   (2,547)      378
                                            -------------------  --------  --------  -------
  Total net income (loss). . . . . . . . .  $            2,220   $ 1,105   $(4,300)  $ 1,076
                                            ===================  ========  ========  =======
</TABLE>



<PAGE>




<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              SIX-MONTH
                                                      YEAR      PERIOD 
                                                      ENDED     ENDED         YEARS ENDED
                                                     DEC 31,    DEC 31,        JUNE  30,
                                                      1998       1997       1997        1996
                                                                 (In thousands)

<S>                                           <C>                <C>       <C>       <C>

Segment Assets:
  Technical Calculation Software Products. .  $         14,798   $12,125   $11,201   $14,762 
  Data Analysis Software Products. . . . . .             4,074     3,067     2,965     3,086 
  Eliminations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            (5,380)   (5,380)   (5,380)   (5,949)
                                              -----------------  --------  --------  --------
  Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $         13,492   $ 9,812   $ 8,786   $11,899 
                                              =================  ========  ========  ========

  Segment Expenditures to Acquire Long-Lived
   Assets:
  Technical Calculation Software Products. .  $            436   $   232   $   440   $   605 
  Data Analysis Software Products. . . . . .               662       207       397       454 
                                              -----------------  --------  --------  --------
  Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $          1,098   $   439   $   837   $ 1,059 
                                              =================  ========  ========  ========

  Segment Interest Income:
  Technical Calculation Software Products. .  $            168   $    50   $   147   $   193 
  Data Analysis Software Products. . . . . .                 -         -         6         6 
                                              -----------------  --------  --------  --------
  Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $            168   $    50   $   153   $   199 
                                              =================  ========  ========  ========

  Segment Interest Expense:
  Technical Calculation Software Products. .  $             50   $    18   $    11   $     - 
  Data Analysis Software Products. . . . . .                36        11         3         7 
                                              -----------------  --------  --------  --------
  Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $             86   $    29   $    14   $     7 
                                              =================  ========  ========  ========

  Segment Income Tax Expense:
  Technical Calculation Software Products. .  $             23   $    18   $    44   $    49 
  Data Analysis Software Products. . . . . .                 -         -         -         - 
                                              -----------------  --------  --------  --------
  Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $             23   $    18   $    44   $    49 
                                              =================  ========  ========  ========

  Segment Depreciation and Amortization:
  Technical Calculation Software Products. .  $            584   $   396   $   667   $   666 
  Data Analysis Software Products. . . . . .               481       253       397       377 
                                              -----------------  --------  --------  --------
  Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $          1,065   $   649   $ 1,064   $ 1,043 
                                              =================  ========  ========  ========
</TABLE>


<PAGE>

                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1998

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                   (Continued)


                                      F-31
(9)     Accrued  Expenses  and  other  Current  Liabilites

Accrued  expenses  and  other  current  liabilities  consist  of  the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                DEC 31,     DEC 31,
                                                 1998         1997

<S>                                          <C>         <C>
  Accrued payroll and payroll-related items  $1,196,616  $  639,320
  Accrued vacation. . . . . . . . . . . . .     440,676     371,420
  Accrued royalties . . . . . . . . . . . .     178,918     183,886
  Other accrued expenses. . . . . . . . . .     636,262   1,042,029
                                             ----------  ----------

                                             $2,452,472  $2,236,655
                                             ==========  ==========
</TABLE>



(10)     Line  of  Credit

The  Company  has  a line of credit with a bank, collateralized by substantially
all  of  the  Company's  assets.  Borrowings are limited to the lesser of 65% of
eligible  domestic  accounts receivable, as defined, or $1,000,000.  Interest on
outstanding  borrowings under this line is based on the bank's prime rate (7.75%
at  December  31, 1998) plus 1%. The Company had no outstanding borrowings under
this  line  of credit as of December 31, 1998.  The agreement contains covenants
that,  among other things, require the Company to meet certain profitability and
maximum  leverage ratios, and to maintain a minimum level of tangible net worth.
The line of credit was extended during December 1998 and was renewed on February
24,  1999.  Under  the  renewal,  borrowings are limited to the lesser of 80% of
eligible  domestic  accounts receivable, as defined, or $2,000,000.  Interest on
outstanding  borrowings  is  based  on  the  bank's  prime  rate  plus  .5%.


<PAGE>



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.23
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED  AND  RESTATED  EXECUTIVE  AGREEMENT
<TEXT>


Exhibit 10.23
                              AMENDED AND RESTATED EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT
                              ---------------------------------------

     AMENDED AND RESTATED EXECUTIVE AGREEMENT, dated as of November 23, 1998, by
and  between  MathSoft,  Inc.  (the  "Company")  and  Charles  J.  Digate  (the
"Executive").

     WHEREAS,  the  Company  and  the  Executive wish to amend and restate their
agreement  dated  July  28,  1997;

     WHEREAS,  the  Executive  continues to be the President and Chief Executive
Officer  of  the  Company and has made and is expected to continue to make major
contributions  to  the  Company;

     WHEREAS,  the  Company  desires  continuity  of  management;  and

     WHEREAS,  the  Executive  is  willing to continue to render services to the
Company  subject  to  the  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement.

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  for  good  and  valuable  consideration,  the receipt and
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Executive agree
as  follows:

     1.     TERM  OF EMPLOYMENT.  This Agreement shall be for an initial term of
            -------------------
two  (2)  years.  Upon the second anniversary of the date of this Agreement (and
upon  each  successive  anniversary  thereafter),  this  Agreement  shall  be
automatically  renewed  for an additional one (1) year term, unless either party
hereto  notifies  the other in writing of its intent not to renew this Agreement
upon  not less than ninety (90) days notice prior to the end of the then-current
term.  In  the  event either party gives the other proper notice of non-renewal,
then  this  Agreement  shall  only continue for the balance of the then existing
term.  Notwithstanding  anything  contained  herein to the contrary, any term of
employment may be earlier terminated as provided in Sections 3, 5, and 7 hereof.

     2.     SALARY.
            ------

     (a)     As  compensation  for  the services rendered by the Executive under
this Agreement, the Company shall pay to the Executive an annual salary equal to
the  amount for the current fiscal year as listed on Exhibit A under the heading
                                                     ---------
"Salary"  (which  may  be amended or supplemented in writing by the parties from
time to time), payable to the Executive in accordance with the Company's payroll
practices  in effect from time to time.  The Compensation Committee of the Board
of  Directors  of  the  Company  shall  review  the  Executive's salary not less
frequently  than  annually.

     (b)     In addition, the Executive shall be eligible to earn a target bonus
(the  "Target  Annual Bonus") equal to the amount for the current fiscal year as
listed  on  Exhibit  A  under  the  heading "Target Annual Bonus" based upon the
            ----------
Company's  achievement  of the Annual Diluted Net Income Per Share Plan approved
by  the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company for such
fiscal  year  (subject to downward adjustment, or upward adjustment to an amount
not  to  exceed  the  amount  identified on Exhibit A under the heading "Maximum
                                            ---------
Annual  Bonus",  based  on  the  Company's achievement of the Annual Diluted Net
Income Per Share Plan for such fiscal year), plus such additional bonus payments
based on specific objectives as may be agreed upon between the Executive and the
Compensation  Committee  of  the  Board of Directors of the Company from time to
time. Any bonus, if earned, shall be payable to the Executive in accordance with
the  Company's  payroll  practices  in  effect  from  time  to  time.

     3.     NOTICE  OF  VOLUNTARY  TERMINATION  BY THE EXECUTIVE.  The Executive
            ----------------------------------------------------
agrees  to  provide  the  Board  of  Directors  of the Company with three months
advance  written  notice  of  his intention to terminate his employment with the
Company;  provided,  however,  that the Executive is not required to provide any
notice  if  such  termination  is  pursuant  to  Sections  6(b)  and/or  7.

     4.     MEMBERSHIP  ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.  After any termination of the
            -------------------------------------
Executive's  employment  with  the  Company,  the  Company  may request that the
Executive  serve  as  a  non-executive  member  of the Board of Directors of the
Company.  If  the  Executive  agrees  to  serve in such a capacity following the
termination  of his employment, the Executive shall be considered as maintaining
a  "business  relationship"  with the Company during such period of service, and
any  installments  of any stock options held by the Executive on the termination
of  his  employment that are not exercisable and have not expired shall continue
to  become  exercisable  in  accordance  with  the  terms of the relevant option
agreements  and  option plans during such period of service.  When the Executive
ceases  to  be  a  non-executive member of the Board of Directors, he shall have
three  years  to  exercise  any  then-exercisable, unexpired installments of any
stock  options  held by the Executive on the Executive's last date of service on
the  Board  of  Directors.

     5.     TERMINATION PRIOR TO A CHANGE OF CONTROL.  If, prior to a "Change of
            ----------------------------------------
Control" (as such term is defined in Section 8(c) below), the Company terminates
the Executive's employment with the Company (i) without "Cause" (as such term is
defined  in  Section 8(d) below) or (ii) by electing not to renew this Agreement
pursuant  to  Section  1,  the  Company  shall:

     (a)     Continue  to pay to the Executive, in accordance with the Company's
normal payroll practices and policies in effect from time to time (including any
required  withholding),  the Executive's base salary (at the monthly base salary
rate  in  effect  for such Executive immediately prior to the termination of his
employment)  for  eighteen  (18)  months  following  the  termination  of  the
Executive's  employment;  provided,  however,  that  the  Company  shall  not be
obligated  to  make any payments pursuant to this Section 5(a) during any period
in  which  the  Executive  is  in  violation  of  the  terms of his Confidential
Information,  Inventions  and  Non-Competition  Agreement  with  the  Company.

     (b)     Provide  the  Executive with health insurance substantially similar
to  that  which the Executive was receiving immediately prior to the termination
of  his  employment  until  the earlier of:  (i) the date which is eighteen (18)
months following the termination of the Executive's employment; or (ii) the date
the Executive begins receiving substantially similar insurance from a subsequent
employer.

     (c)     Provide  that  the Executive shall have three years to exercise any
then-exercisable,  unexpired  installments  of  any  stock  options  held by the
Executive  on the Executive's last date of employment or if later, the date when
the  Executive  ceases  to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.

     6.     CHANGE  OF  CONTROL.  (a)  Upon  a  Change  of  Control,  and if the
            -------------------
Executive  is  an employee of the Company at the time of such Change of Control,
the  Company  shall  cause  half  of any unexercisable installments of any stock
options  held by the Executive on the Change of Control that have not expired to
become  exercisable  on  the  Change  of  Control;  provided, however, that such
acceleration  of  exercisability  shall  not  occur to the extent that:  (A) the
Change of Control is intended to be accounted for as a pooling of interests; and
(B)  the  Company  concludes, after consulting with its independent accountants,
that  such  acceleration  would  prevent  the Change of Control transaction from
being accounted for as a pooling of interests for financial accounting purposes.
     (b)     Following  a  Change of Control, (i) if the Executive is terminated
by  the  Company  without Cause, (ii) if the Executive remains employed with the
Company  through  the ninety-first day after such Change of Control, or (iii) if
the  Executive  terminates  his  employment  for  "Good Reason" (as such term is
defined  in  Section  7(b)  below) and the Executive provides mutually agreeable
consulting  services  through  the ninety-first day after such Change of Control
the  Company  shall  pay to the Executive a lump sum amount (net of any required
withholding) equal to $250,000 (the "Retention Bonus") payable upon the date the
Executive  is  terminated  or  the  Executive's  ninety-first  day of employment
following  the  Change  of  Control,  whichever  is  earlier.

     7.     TERMINATION  FOLLOWING  A  CHANGE  OF  CONTROL.
            ----------------------------------------------

     (a)     If,  at  any time after a Change in Control, the Company terminates
the  Executive's  employment  without  Cause  or  the  Executive  terminates his
employment  with  the  Company  for  "Good  Reason"  (as such term is defined in
Section  7(b)  below)  (the  "Termination  Date"),  the  Company  shall:

     (1)     Subject to Section 7(c) below, continue to pay to the Executive, in
accordance  with  the  Company's normal payroll practices and policies in effect
from  time  to  time  (including  any required withholding), (i) the Executive's
current  base  salary  (at  the  monthly  base  salary  rate  in effect for such
Executive  immediately  prior to the termination of his employment) for eighteen
(18)  months  following  the Termination Date and (ii) one hundred fifty percent
(150%)  of  the  Executive's bonus (which shall be the greater of (A) the Target
Bonus  set  by the Company's Board of Directors for the fiscal year in which the
termination of employment occurred and (B) the actual amount of all bonuses paid
or  payable  in  respect of the preceding fiscal year) paid ratably on a monthly
basis  during  the  eighteen  (18)  months  following  the  Termination  Date
(collectively,  the  "Severance  Payments").

     (2)     Pay  to  the  Executive  a  lump  sum  amount  (net of any required
withholding)  within  thirty  (30)  days  following  the  termination  of  his
employment,  determined  as  follows:  (i) for each full calendar quarter during
which  Executive  was employed by the Company that has elapsed since January 1st
of  the  year  in  which his employment terminated, the total of each applicable
amount(s)  specified  on  Exhibit A attached hereto under the heading "Quarterly
                          ---------
Diluted  Net  Income  Per Share-Based Bonus Amount"; provided, however, that the
amounts  described  in  this  clause  (i)  shall  only be payable if the Company
achieved the relevant portion of the Quarterly Diluted Net Income Per Share Plan
approved  by  the  Compensation  Committee of the Board of Directors for each of
such  quarters  and  (ii)  for  any  partial  calendar  quarter during which the
Executive was employed by the Company that has elapsed since the end of the last
full  fiscal  quarter  ending  prior  to the date the Executive's employment was
terminated,  a  pro  rated  portion  of the amount specified on Exhibit A hereto
                                                                ---------
under  the  heading  "Quarterly Diluted Net Income Per Share-Based Bonus Amount"
for  such  quarter  equal  to  the  number  of days during such quarter that the
Executive  was  employed  by  the  Company  divided  by  90,  multiplied  by the
applicable  Quarterly  Diluted  Net  Income  Per  Share-Based  Bonus  Amount.

     (3)     Provide  the  Executive with health insurance substantially similar
to  that  which the Executive was receiving immediately prior to the Termination
Date until the earlier of:  (i) the date which is eighteen (18) months following
the  Termination  Date;  or  (ii)  the  date  the  Executive  begins  receiving
substantially  similar  health  insurance  from  a  subsequent  employer.

     (4)     Provide  the  Executive  not  more  than  $20,000  of  outplacement
services  annually  from  an  outplacement company selected by the Company, with
such  services to extend until the two-year anniversary of the Termination Date.

     (5)     Provide  that  the Executive shall have three years to exercise any
then-exercisable,  unexpired  installments  of  any  stock  options  held by the
Executive on the Executive's last date of employment or, if later, the date when
the  Executive  ceases  to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Company.
     (b)     For  purposes  of  Sections  6  and 7, "Good Reason" shall mean the
occurrence of one or more of the following events following a Change of Control:
(i)  the  assignment  to  the  Executive  of  any  duties  inconsistent with his
position,  authority, duties or responsibilities immediately prior to the Change
of  Control  or any other action by the Company which results in a diminution in
such  position,  authority,  duties or responsibilities; (ii) a reduction in the
aggregate  of  the Executive's base or incentive compensation or the termination
of  the  Executive's  rights  to  any employee benefits immediately prior to the
Change  of  Control,  except  to  the extent any such benefit is replaced with a
substantially  similar  benefit,  or  a  reduction in scope or value thereof; or
(iii)  a  relocation  of  the Executive's place of business which results in the
one-way  commuting  distance  for the Executive increasing by more than 40 miles
from  the location thereof immediately prior to the Change of Control (provided,
                                                                       --------
however,  that travel consistent with past practices for business purposes shall
- - -------
not  be  considered  "commuting"  for  purposes of this clause (iii)); or (iv) a
failure  by  the  Company  to  obtain  the agreement referenced in Section 8(f).
     (c)     If  the  Executive  finds  employment with a subsequent employer or
becomes  self-employed after the Termination Date (a "Reemployment Event"), then
the  Severance  Payments  shall  be  paid  in  full for the first six (6) months
following  the Termination Date and then shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%)
for  the remaining twelve (12) months or for that shorter portion of such twelve
(12) month period following the date of the Reemployment Event.  For purposes of
this  Section  7(c), when determining whether a Reemployment Event has occurred,
employment  or  self-employment  (including ad hoc or temporary assignments) for
which  the  Executive  receives  remuneration in any year in an aggregate amount
(including  remuneration  received  from  all such employment or self-employment
during  such year) which does not exceed 50% of the Executive's base salary rate
with  the  Company  at  the  time  of  his  termination,  shall  be  excluded.

     8.     GENERAL.
            -------
     (a)     Notwithstanding  anything  else  to  the  contrary herein:  (i) the
Company's  obligation  to  provide  any of the amounts and benefits set forth in
this  Agreement  shall  be  subject  to,  and  conditioned upon, the Executive's
execution  of a full release of claims satisfactory to the Company releasing the
Company  and  its  affiliates, subsidiaries, divisions, directors, employees and
agents  from any claims arising from or related to the Executive's employment or
severance  from  employment  with the Company, including any claims arising from
this Agreement, such release to be substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto
                                                                ---------
(the  "Release");  (ii) the Company shall not be obligated to provide any of the
amounts  and  benefits  set  forth in this Agreement until any applicable period
within  which  the  Executive  may revoke the Release has expired; and (iii) any
amounts and benefits set forth in this Agreement shall be reduced by any and all
other severance or other amounts or benefits paid or payable to the Executive as
a  result  of  the  termination  of  his  employment.
     (b)     In  the  event  the  Executive's  employment  with  the  Company is
terminated  by  the  Company  for  any  reason  other than without Cause, or the
Executive  terminates  his employment with the Company for any reason other than
Good  Reason,  the  Executive shall not be entitled to any severance benefits or
other  considerations  described  herein.
     (c)     For  purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean the
closing  of:  (i)  a merger, consolidation, liquidation or reorganization of the
Company, with or without its wholly-owned subsidiary, Statistical Sciences, Inc.
("StatSci"),  into  or  with  another company or other legal person, after which
merger,  consolidation,  liquidation  or reorganization the capital stock of the
Company  outstanding  prior  to consummation of the transaction is not converted
into  or  exchanged  for  or  does  not represent more than 50% of the aggregate
voting  power  of the surviving or resulting entity; (ii) the direct or indirect
acquisition  by  any person (as the term "person" is used in Section 13(d)(3) or
14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) of more than 50% of
the voting capital stock of the Company, which may or may not include the voting
capital  stock  of  StatSci,  in  a single or series of related transactions; or
(iii)  the  sale,  exchange,  or  transfer  of  all  or substantially all of the
Company's  assets,  which may or may not include StatSci's assets, (other than a
sale, exchange or transfer to one or more entities where the stockholders of the
Company  immediately  before such sale, exchange or transfer retain, directly or
indirectly,  at  least a majority of the beneficial interest in the voting stock
of  the  entities  to  which  the  assets  were  transferred).
     (d)     For  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  "Cause"  shall  mean:  (i) the
commission  of  the  Executive  of  a  felony,  either  in  connection  with the
performance  of  his  obligations  to the Company or which adversely affects the
Executive's  ability  to  perform  such  obligations;  (ii)  gross  negligence,
dishonesty or breach of fiduciary duty; or (iii) the commission by the Executive
of  an  act  of fraud or embezzlement which results in loss, damage or injury to
the  Company,  whether  directly  or  indirectly.
     (e)     Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if the
Company  determines  in  its sole discretion after consultation with its tax and
accounting  advisors that the Executive is a Disqualified Individual (as defined
in  Section  280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"))
and that any portion of any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the
benefit  of  the  Executive,  whether  paid  or  payable  or  distributed  or
distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise (a "Payment")
would  be  an  Excess Parachute Payment (as defined in Section 280G of the Code)
but  for  the application of this sentence, then the amount of all such Payments
otherwise  payable  to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement shall be reduced
to  the  minimum extent necessary (but in no event to less than zero) so that no
portion  of any Payment, as so reduced, constitutes an Excess Parachute Payment.
For  purposes  of  this reduction, no portion of any Payment shall be taken into
account  to  the  extent that such Payment, in the opinion of the Company, after
consultation  with  its  tax  and  accounting  advisors,  does  not constitute a
"parachute  payment"  within  the  meaning  of  Section  280G(b)(2) of the Code.
     (f)     Except  as  otherwise  provided  herein,  this  Agreement  shall be
binding  upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and any successor (whether
direct  or  indirect,  by  purchase,  merger,  consolidation,  reorganization or
otherwise)  of the Company; provided, however, that the Company shall obtain the
                            --------  -------
written  agreement  of  any  successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase,
merger,  consolidation,  reorganization or otherwise) of the Company to be bound
by  the  provisions  of this Agreement as if such successor were the Company and
for  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  any  such successor of the Company shall be
deemed  to  be  the  "Company"  for  all  purposes.
     (g)     Nothing  in  this Agreement shall create any obligation on the part
of  the Company or any other person to continue the employment of the Executive.
If  the Executive elects to receive the severance and benefits set forth in this
Agreement  by  executing the Release, the Executive shall not be entitled to any
other  salary continuation, severance or other termination benefits in the event
of  his  cessation  of  employment  with  the  Company.
     (h)     Nothing  herein  shall affect the Executive's obligations under any
key  employee,  non-competition,  confidentiality,  option  or similar agreement
between  the  Company  and  the  Executive  currently  in effect or which may be
entered  into  in  the  future.
     (i)     This  Agreement  shall  be  governed by and construed in accordance
with  the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  This Agreement constitutes
the  entire  Agreement  between  the  Executive  and  the Company concerning the
subject  matter  hereof and supersedes any prior negotiations, understandings or
agreements  concerning  the  subject matter hereof, whether oral or written, and
may be amended or rescinded only upon the written consent of the Company and the
Executive.  The  invalidity  or  unenforceability  of  any  provision  of  this
Agreement  shall  not  affect  the  other  provisions of this Agreement and this
Agreement  shall  be construed and reformed to the fullest extent possible.  The
Executive  may not assign any of his rights or obligations under this Agreement;
the  rights  and  obligations of the Company under this Agreement shall inure to
the  benefit  of,  and  shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the
Company.  This  Agreement  may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of
which  taken  together  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.

                  [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]

<PAGE>













     IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
executed  as  of  the  date  first  written  above.

The  Company:
- - ------------

MATHSOFT,  INC.

By:     /s Robert  P.  Orlando
        ----------------------

Name:     Robert  P.  Orlando
          -------------------

Title:     VP  Finance  and  Administration,  CFO
           --------------------------------------


The  Executive:
- - --------------

/s/ Charles  J.  Digate
- - ----------------------
Charles  J.  Digate


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.24
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDEDMENTS TO AGREEMENT OF LEASE
<TEXT>

          Exhibit  10.24

                      AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO AGREEMENT OF LEASE
                      -------------------------------------


     THIS  AMENDMENT  TO AGREEMENT OF LEASE, made as of the 23rd day of October,
1998,  between  RIVERFRONT  OFFICE  PARK  JOINT  VENTURE,  a Massachusetts joint
venture  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  "Landlord")  and  MATHSOFT,  INC.,  a
Massachusetts  corporation  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  "Tenant").

                                WITNESSETH THAT:
                                ----------------

     WHEREAS,  Landlord and Tenant are parties to an Agreement of Lease dated as
of  August 17, 1993 for 11,212 rentable square feet on the 15th floor and 23,350
rentable  square  feet  on  the 16th floor of the building commonly known as and
numbered  101  Main Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts (hereinafter referred to as
the  "Lease");  and

     WHEREAS,  the  par-ties hereto wish to amend the Lease as set forth herein.

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  for  good  and  valuable  consideration  the  receipt and
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by each of the parties hereto, it is
agreed  as  follows:

     1.     Unless  the  context  otherwise requires, all capitalized terms used
herein  shall  have
     the  same  meaning  as  set  forth  in  the  Lease.

2.     Effective  as  of the last day of the initial Tern of this Lease (October
14,  1999)  the
fifteenth  (15th)  floor  of  the  Building shown on the plan attached hereto as
Exhibit  A-1
 and  made  a  part  hereof  consisting  of 11,212 square feet of rentable space
(hereinafter referred to as the "Eliminated I-Cube Fifteenth Floor Space") shall
cease  to  constitute  a  part  of  the  Demised  Premises.

3.     Effective  upon  execution  of  this  Amendment, reference to the Demised
Premises  in Section 3.3 of the Lease shall mean the Demised Premises, exclusive
of  the  Eliminated  I-Cube  Fifteenth  Floor  Space.

4.     From  and  after  October 14, 1999, solely with respect to the Eliminated
I-Cube
Fifteenth Floor Space, Landlord and Tenant do hereby mutually release each other
(and  their  respective employees, officers, directors, owners, subsidiaries and
affiliates,  collectively,  the  "Related  Parties")  from all claims, costs and
demands
and  causes  of  actions  arising  out  of and in connection with the Lease with
respect
to  the  Eliminated  I-Cube  Fifteenth  Floor  Space, except that nothing herein
contained  shall  be  deemed to constitute a release or discharge of Landlord or
Tenant,  as  the  case  may  be,  or  the  Related  Parties, with respect to any
obligation
or  liability incurred by Landlord or Tenant under the Lease with respect to the
Eliminated  I-Cube Fifteenth Floor Space which is outstanding and unsatisfied on
October  14,  1999.

<PAGE>
     5.     From  and  after  October 14, 1999 (except as set forth in paragraph
numbered  3
     above),  the  Demised  Premises  under  the lease shall be deemed to be the
Demised
Premises,  exclusive  of  the  Eliminated  I-Cube  Fifteenth  Floor  Space,  and
accordingly,  the  Lease is hereby deemed amended as follows: (i) on October 14,
1999, Tenant's annual base rent shall be adjusted as set forth in Section 3.3 of
the
Lease; and (ii) from and after October 14, 1999, Tenant's proportionate share of
operating  expenses and taxes as set forth in Section 6.4 of the Lease, shall be
reduced  to  6.86%  (23,350/340,240  square  feet)  and  7.14%  (23,350/326,900
square  feet),  respectively.  Further, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained  herein,  Landlord shall properly apportion any charges or credits due
to
or  from  Tenant  under  Section 6.2, 6.3 and 6.4 of the Lease based on Tenant's
proportionate  share  applicable  to  such  period.

     IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  Landlord  and  Tenant  have  caused  this instrument
executed  under  seal,  all  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above  written.

                                            RIVERFRONT OFFICE PARK JOINT VENTURE

                                       By:     RIVERFRONT OFFICE PARK ASSOCIATES

                                                     By:     DARVEL REALTY TRUST
                                                        Managing General Partner

                                                By:      /s/ Michael P. Sullivan
                                                        ------------------------
                                             Michael P. Sullivan, Vice President


                                                                  MATHSOFT, INC.

                                                      By:  /s/ Robert P. Orlando
                                                           ---------------------

                      AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO AGREEMENT OF LEASE
                      -------------------------------------


     THIS  AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT OF LEASE, made as of the 30th day of November,
1998,  between  RIVERFRONT  OFFICE  PARK  JOINT  VENTURE,  a Massachusetts joint
venture  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  "Landlord")  and  MATHSOFT,  INC.,  a
Massachusetts  corporation  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  "Tenant").

                                WITNESSETH THAT:
                                ----------------

     WHEREAS,  Landlord and Tenant are parties to an Agreement of Lease dated as
of
August  17,  1993  for  11,212 rentable square feet on the 15th floor and 23,350
rentable  square  feet
on  the  16th  floor  of  the  building  commonly known as and numbered 101 Main
Street,  Cambridge, Massachusetts, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Agreement of
Lease  dated  as of October 23, 1998 (said Agreement of Lease as amended by said
Amendment  No. 1 to Agreement of Lease, hereinafter referred to as the "Lease");
and

     WHEREAS,  the  parties  hereto wish to further amend the Lease as set forth
herein.

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  for  good  and  valuable  consideration  the  receipt and
sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by each of the parties hereto, it is
agreed  as  follows:

1.     Unless  the context otherwise requires, all capitalized terms used herein
shall  have  the  same  meaning  as  set  forth  in  the  Lease.

2.     Pursuant  to  Section 3.3 of the Lease, Tenant has exercised the first of
its  two  (2)
options  to  extend the Term of the Lease by an additional five (5) year period.
As
a  consequence  of  the  foregoing,  the  Term of this Lease, which is presently
scheduled to terminate on October 14, 1999, is hereby extended for an additional
five  (5)  year  period  ending  on  October  14,  2004.

     3.     Effective  as  of October 15, 1999, Article 1(19) of the Lease shall
be  amended  to
     modify  the  Yearly  Fixed  Rent  to  equal  the  product  of  (a) $350,250
(calculated  on
the  basis of $15.00 per square for the 23,350 rentable square feet constituting
the
Demised Premises, multiplied by (b) a fraction the denominator of which shall be
151.0  (the  consumer  price  index  for urban wage earners and clerical workers
(CPI-W),  Boston-Brockton-Nashua,  MA-NH-ME-CT,  all  items  for  the  month  of
September,  1993)  and  the numerator of which shall be the consumer price index
for  urban  wage  earners  and clerical workers (CPI-W), Boston-Brockton-Nashua,
MA-NH-ME-CT,  all  items  for  the  month  of  September,  1999).  Promptly,
following  publication  of  the  consumer price index for urban wage earners and
clerical  workers  (CPI-W),  Boston-Brockton-Nashua,  MA-NH-ME-CT  of  all items
for  the  month  of September, 1999, Landlord and Tenant shall execute a written
amendment to the Lease setting forth the Yearly Fixed Rent for the five (5) year
extension  period  as  determined  as  aforesaid.


<PAGE>

     4.     Effective  as  of  October  15,  1999,  Article 1(9) of the Lease is
amended  to  read  in
     its  entirety  as  follows:

"(9)  Parking  Spaces:          Seventy  (70)."

     5.     Pursuant  to  Section  27.6  of  the  Lease, the Additional Rent for
Parking  Spaces
during  the  renewal  Period shall be equal to seventy-five percent (75%) of the
then
prevailing monthly charge for enclosed parking spaces for tenants of other first
class  office  buildings  in  the Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts area.

6.     Except  as  herein  expressly  modified,  the provisions of the Lease are
hereby
confirmed  and  ratified  and  shall  continue  in  full  force  and  effect.

     IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have caused this instrument to be
executed  under  seal,  all  as  of  the  day  and  year  first  above  written.

                                            RIVERFRONT OFFICE PARK JOINT VENTURE

                                       By:     RIVERFRONT OFFICE PARK ASSOCIATES

                                                         By: DARVEL REALTY TRUST
                                                        Managing General Partner

                                                    By:  /s/ Michael P. Sullivan
                                                        ------------------------
                                             Michael P. Sullivan, Vice President


                                                                  MATHSOFT, INC.

                                                      By:  /s/ Robert P. Orlando
                                                          ----------------------

<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.25
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>THIRD LOAN MODIFICATION AGREEMENT AND PROMISSORY NOTE
<TEXT>

          Exhibit  10.25

                        THIRD LOAN MODIFICATION AGREEMENT


     This  Third  Loan  Modification  Agreement ("this Agreement") is made as of
February  24,  1999  among  MathSoft,  Inc.,  a  Massachusetts  corporation
("MathSoft"),  Statistical  Sciences,  Inc.,  a  Massachusetts  corporation
("StatSci")  (MathSoft and StatSci being hereinafter referred to collectively as
the  "Borrowers"  and individually as a "Borrower") and Fleet National Bank (the
"Bank")  (the  Bank  being  successor  by merger to Fleet Bank of Massachusetts,
N.A.).  For  good  and  valuable consideration, receipt and sufficiency of which
are  hereby  acknowledged,  the Borrowers and the Bank act and agree as follows:

     1.     Reference  is  made  to:  (i)  that  certain  letter agreement dated
January  11, 1996 among the Borrowers and Fleet Bank of Massachusetts, N.A., the
Bank  having  succeeded  to  the  rights  of  Fleet  Bank of Massachusetts, N.A.
thereunder,  as  modified  and amended, among other things, by that certain Loan
Modification  Agreement dated as of February 14, 1997 and by that certain Second
Loan  Modification  Agreement dated as of September 25, 1997 (as so modified and
amended,  the  "Letter  Agreement"); (ii) that certain $1,000,000 face principal
amount promissory note dated September 25, 1997 (the "1997 Revolving Note") made
jointly  and  severally  by  the Borrowers and payable to the order of the Bank;
(iii)  that  certain  Inventory,  Accounts  Receivable  and Intangibles Security
Agreement  dated  January 11, 1996, as amended (as so amended, the "MathSoft IAR
Security Agreement") given by MathSoft to Fleet Bank of Massachusetts, N.A., the
Bank  having  succeeded  to  the  rights  of  Fleet  Bank of Massachusetts, N.A.
thereunder;  (iv)  that  certain  Supplementary  Security  Agreement  - Security
Interest  in  Goods  and  Chattels  dated  January  11,  1996, as amended (as so
amended,  the  "MathSoft Supplementary Security Agreement") given by MathSoft to
Fleet  Bank  of  Massachusetts, N.A., the Bank having succeeded to the rights of
Fleet  Bank  of  Massachusetts,  N.A.  thereunder;  (v)  that certain Inventory,
Accounts  Receivable  and Intangibles Security Agreement dated January 11, 1996,
as amended (as so amended, the "StatSci Security Agreement") given by StatSci to
Fleet  Bank  of  Massachusetts, N.A., the Bank having succeeded to the rights of
Fleet  Bank  of  Massachusetts, N.A. thereunder; (vi) that certain Supplementary
Security  Agreement  - Security Interest in Goods and Chattels dated January 11,
1996, as amended (as so amended, the "StatSci Supplementary Security Agreement")
given by StatSci to Fleet Bank of Massachusetts, N.A., the Bank having succeeded
to  the  rights  of  Fleet  Bank  of  Massachusetts, N.A. thereunder; (vii) that
certain  Assignment of Trademarks as Security dated January 19, 1996, as amended
(as  so  amended, the "Trademark Assignment") given by MathSoft to Fleet Bank of
Massachusetts,  N.A.,  the  Bank having succeeded to the rights of Fleet Bank of
Massachusetts,  N.A.  thereunder;  (viii)  that certain Assignment of Patents as
Security  dated  January  19,  1996,  as  amended  (as  so  amended, the "Patent
Assignment")  given  by  MathSoft to Fleet Bank of Massachusetts, N.A., the Bank
having  succeeded to the rights of Fleet Bank of Massachusetts, N.A. thereunder;
and  (ix)  that certain $2,000,000 face principal amount promissory note of even
date  herewith  (the  "1999  Revolving  Note") made jointly and severally by the
Borrowers  and  payable  to  the  order  of the Bank.  The Letter Agreement, the
MathSoft  IAR Security Agreement, the MathSoft Supplementary Security Agreement,
the  StatSci  IAR  Security  Agreement,  the  StatSci  Supplementary  Security
Agreement,  the  Trademark  Assignment,  the  Patent  Assignment  and  the  1999
Revolving  Note  are  hereinafter  collectively  referred  to  as the "Financing
Documents".  The  aforesaid Loan Modification Agreement dated as of February 14,
1997  is  hereinafter  referred to as the "First Modification" and the aforesaid
Second Loan Modification Agreement dated as of September 25, 1997 is hereinafter
referred  to  as  the  "Second  Modification".

     2.     The  Letter  Agreement  is  hereby amended, effective as of the date
hereof:

     a.     By  deleting in its entirety clause (i) of Section 1.1 of the Letter
Agreement  and  by  substituting  in  its  stead  the  following:

"(i)  that  certain  $2,000,000  face  principal  amount  promissory  note  (the
'Revolving  Note')  dated  February  24,  1999 made jointly and severally by the
Borrowers  and  payable  to  the  order  of  the  Bank,"

As  a  result, all references in the Letter Agreement to a "Revolving Note" will
be  deemed  to  refer  to  the  1999  Revolving  Note.

     b.     By  deleting  from  the fourth sentence of Section 1.2 of the Letter
Agreement  the  words  "two (2%) percent" and by substituting in their stead the
following:

          "four  (4%)  percent"

     c.     By  inserting  into the eighth sentence of Section 1.2 of the Letter
Agreement  (as  amended  by the First Modification), immediately after the words
"in  immediately  available  funds",  the  following:

          "in  lawful  currency  of  the  United  States"

     d.     By deleting in its entirety the tenth sentence of Section 1.2 of the
Letter  Agreement  and  by  substituting  in  its  stead  the  following:

"All  monies  received  by  the Bank shall be applied first to fees, charges and
expenses  payable  to  the  Bank under this letter agreement, the Revolving Note
and/or  any  of  the  other  Loan Documents and/or with respect to any letter of
credit  and/or  with  respect  to  any  other  Obligation, next to interest then
accrued  on  account  of  any  Revolving Loans or letter of credit reimbursement
obligations  or any of the other Obligations and only thereafter to principal of
the  Revolving  Loans  and  letter of credit reimbursement obligations and other
Obligations,  being  applied  against  the  Revolving  Loans, such reimbursement
obligations  and/or  such  other  Obligations in such order as the Borrowers may
designate (and, failing such designation, being applied first against the letter
of  credit  reimbursement  obligations and such other Obligations and thereafter
against  the  Revolving  Loans)."

     e.     By  inserting  into  the  last sentence of Section 1.2 of the Letter
Agreement,  immediately  after  the  words  "Revolving  Note",  the  following:

          "and/or  with  respect  to  any  of  the  other  Obligations"

     f.     By  inserting  into  the  first  sentence of the second paragraph of
Section  1.4 of the Letter Agreement, immediately after the words "any letter of
credit",  the  following:

          "and/or  with  respect  to  any  of  the  other  Obligations"

     g.     By  deleting  the  period  at  the end of the second sentence of the
second  paragraph  of Section 1.4 of the Letter Agreement and by substituting in
its  stead  the  following:

          "or  with  respect  to  any  of  the  other  Obligations"

     h.     By  inserting  into  each  of  the first and second sentences of the
third  paragraph  of  Section 1.4 of the Letter Agreement, immediately after the
words  "any  letter  of credit", in each place where same appear, the following:

          "and/or  with  respect  to  any  of  the  other  Obligations"

     i.     By  inserting  into  the Letter Agreement, immediately after Section
1.5  thereof,  the  following:

"1.5A.  ACH  Exposure.  The  Bank  may from time to time prior to the Expiration
        -------------
Date,  at  the  request  of  MathSoft,  initiate automated clearinghouse ('ACH')
transactions for MathSoft; provided that the Bank's total ACH Exposure shall not
(unless  otherwise  agreed by the Bank in its sole discretion) exceed $1,800,000
at  any  one  time.  ACH  transactions will bear such fees and charges as may be
agreed  upon  by  the  Bank and MathSoft and will be governed by the Bank's then
current  documentation and practices with respect to such transactions.  As used
herein,  'ACH  Exposure'  as  determined  at  any  date means the sum of (i) all
amounts then owed by MathSoft to the Bank in connection with any ACH transaction
pursuant  to  which  the Bank has advanced funds on behalf of MathSoft plus (ii)
                                                                       ----
the  maximum  amount which could be owed by MathSoft (assuming settlement within
two  (2)  Business  Days  of  each  date when funds are advanced) to the Bank in
connection with all ACH transactions then authorized by MathSoft but as to which
the  Bank  has  not  yet  advanced  funds.

1.5B.     Foreign  Exchange Contracts.  During the term of this letter agreement
          ---------------------------
and  subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Bank may from time to time,
at  MathSoft's  request,  provide  to  MathSoft  one  or  more forward contracts
('Foreign  Exchange Contracts') for the purchase by MathSoft of foreign currency
from  the Bank; provided that (i) each such Foreign Exchange Contract will be at
such pricing as the Bank and MathSoft may agree at the time of execution of such
Foreign Exchange Contract, (ii) the documentation for each such Foreign Exchange
Contract  will  be  in  such  form  as  is then customarily used by the Bank for
transactions  of this type, (iii) the Foreign Exchange Contracts will be used by
MathSoft  to  minimize  its  exposure  to  the fluctuation of the value of those
foreign  currencies  in  which  payments  are expected to be made to MathSoft by
customers  or  in  which MathSoft is required to make payments to suppliers, and
(iv)  the  United States Dollar equivalent of all amounts subject to the Foreign
Exchange Contracts will not exceed $1,333,000 in the aggregate.  As used herein,
the  'F/X  Exposure'  as determined at any date means the sum of (i) all amounts
then  owed  by MathSoft to the Bank in connection with settlement of any Foreign
Exchange  Contract,  plus  (ii)  15%  of  the  aggregate notional amounts of all
                     ----
outstanding  Foreign  Exchange  Contracts."

     j.     By  inserting into the introductory clause of the second grammatical
paragraph  of  Section  1.6 of the Letter Agreement, immediately after the words
"Revolving  Loan  is  made",  the  following:

          "(or  when  any  ACH  transaction  is initiated or any F/X Contract is
issued)"

     k.     By  inserting  into  each  of  the  clause (a) and clause (b) of the
second grammatical paragraph of Section 1.6 of the Letter Agreement, immediately
after  the  word  "Loan",  in  each  place  where  same  appears, the following:

"(or  the  initiation  of  any  ACH  transaction  or the issuance of any Foreign
Exchange  Contract)"

     l.     By  inserting  into  the  first  sentence  of  the last paragraph of
Section  1.6 of the Letter Agreement, immediately after the word "Loan", in each
place  where  same  appears,  the  following:

"(or  the  initiation  of  any  ACH  transaction  or the issuance of any Foreign
Exchange  Contract)"

     m.     By  inserting  into  the  introductory  clause of Section 2.1 of the
Letter Agreement, immediately after the words "letters of credit hereunder", the
following:

"and/or  engage  in  ACH transactions for MathSoft and/or issue Foreign Exchange
Contracts"

     n.     By adding to Section 2.1 of the Letter Agreement, at the end of such
Section,  the  following:

     "The  Borrower  has reviewed the software which it uses in its business for
'Year  2000'  compliance  and has determined that such software will continue to
function  in  the  manner  intended  without  interruption  of  service or other
difficulty  resulting  from  the 'Year 2000 problem'.  The Borrower will, at the
request of the Bank, provide such reports and such other information as the Bank
may  reasonably  request  in  order  to  evidence  such  Year  2000 compliance."

     o.     By  inserting  into  the  introductory  clause of Article III of the
Letter Agreement, immediately after the words "letter of credit issued hereunder
shall  be  outstanding",  the  following:

"or  any  Foreign  Exchange Contract shall be outstanding or any amount shall be
owed  by  MathSoft  in  respect  of  any ACH transaction or any Foreign Exchange
Contract"

     p.     By  adding  to clause (i) of Section 3.6 of the Letter Agreement, at
the  end  of  such  clause,  the  following:

"Without  limitation  of the foregoing, MathSoft represents, warrants and agrees
that  the  audited  annual  consolidated  financial  statements for MathSoft and
Subsidiaries  for its fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 will not be materially
different  from  the  management-prepared financial statements of MathSoft as at
December  31,  1998  previously  furnished  to  the  Bank."

     q.     By  deleting their entireties Sections 3.7, 3.8, 3.9 and 3.10 of the
Letter  Agreement  and  by  substituting  in  their  stead  the  following:

     "3.7.     Debt  to  Worth.  MathSoft  will  maintain  as at the end of each
               ---------------
fiscal  quarter  (commencing  with  its  results  as  at December 31, 1998) on a
consolidated basis a Leverage Ratio of not more than 1.25 to 1.  As used herein,
'Leverage  Ratio' means, as at any date when same is to be determined, the ratio
of  (x)  the  outstanding  consolidated  Adjusted  Debt  of  MathSoft  and  its
Subsidiaries  to  (y)  the  consolidated  Tangible  Net  Worth  of  MathSoft.

     3.8.     Net  Worth.  MathSoft  will  maintain as at the end of each fiscal
              ----------
quarter  (commencing  with  its  results as at December 31, 1998) a consolidated
Tangible  Net  Worth  which  shall  be  not  less  than  the  then-effective TNW
Requirement.  As used in this  3.8, the 'TNW Requirement' will be deemed to have
been  $4,800,000  as at December 31, 1998; and as at the last day of each fiscal
quarter  thereafter  (each,  a  'Determination  Date') (beginning with March 31,
1999)  the  TNW  Requirement will be deemed to become an amount equal to the sum
of:  (i)  that  TNW  Requirement which had been in effect on the last day of the
immediately  preceding  fiscal quarter, plus (ii) 80% of the net proceeds of any
                                        ----
equity  securities  sold  by  MathSoft  during the fiscal quarter ended with the
Determination Date in question, plus (iii) 80% of the consolidated Net Income of
                                ----
MathSoft and Subsidiaries during the fiscal quarter ended with the Determination
Date in question (but without giving effect to any Net Income which is less than
zero  for  any  fiscal  quarter).

     3.9.     Quick  Ratio.  MathSoft will maintain as at the end of each fiscal
              ------------
quarter  (commencing with its results as of December 31, 1998) on a consolidated
basis  a  ratio of Net Quick Assets to Current Liabilities, which ratio shall be
not  less  than  1.5  to  1.

     3.10.     Profitability.  MathSoft  will achieve consolidated Net Income of
               -------------
not  less  than  $300,000  for  each period of two fiscal quarters ending at any
Determination  Date  (beginning  with  its  results for the period of two fiscal
quarters  ended  December  31,  1998).  Without  limitation  of  the  foregoing,
MathSoft  will achieve consolidated annual Net Income of at least $1,000,000 for
each fiscal year, commencing with its results for its fiscal year ended December
31,  1998."

     r.     By  inserting  into  the  introductory  clause  of Article IV of the
Letter Agreement, immediately after the words "letter of credit issued hereunder
shall  be  outstanding",  the  following:

"or  any  Foreign  Exchange Contract shall be outstanding or any amount shall be
owed  by  the Borrower in respect of any ACH transaction or any Foreign Exchange
Contract"

     s.     By deleting the semicolon at the end of clause (i) of Section 4.1 of
the  Letter  Agreement  and  by  substituting  in  its  stead  the  following:

"or  in  respect  of  any ACH transactions or in respect of any Foreign Exchange
Contracts;"

     t.     By  deleting from clause (iv) of Section 4.1 of the Letter Agreement
the  amount  "$750,000"  and  by  substituting  in  its  stead  the  following:

          "$1,400,000"

     u.     By inserting into clause (a) of Section 5.1 of the Letter Agreement,
immediately  after  the  words  "issued  by  the  Bank",  the  following:

"or  with  respect  to  any Foreign Exchange Contract or with respect to any ACH
transaction"

     v.     By inserting into clause (b) of Section 5.1 of the Letter Agreement,
immediately  after  the  words  "letter  of  credit",  the  following:

"or  any  ACH  transaction  or  any  Foreign  Exchange  Contract"

     w.     By  deleting  the  period at the end of clause (b) of Section 5.2 of
the  Letter  Agreement  and  by  substituting  in  its  stead  the  following:

",  as  well  as  terminating  all facilities provided for herein for letters of
credit,  ACH  transactions  and/or  Foreign  Exchange  Contracts."

     x.     By deleting the last sentence of Section 5.3 of the Letter Agreement
and  by  substituting  in  its  stead  the  following:

"The  Borrower  hereby grants to the Bank a lien, security interest and right of
setoff  as security for all liabilities and obligations to the Bank, whether now
existing  or  hereafter  arising,  upon  and  against  all  deposits,  credits,
collateral  and  property,  now  or  hereafter  in  the  possession,  custody,
safekeeping  or  control  of  the  Bank or any entity under the control of Fleet
Financial  Group,  Inc.  or  in  transit  to any of them.  At any time after the
occurrence  and  during  the continuance of an Event of Default, without further
demand  or  notice,  the Bank may set off the same or any part thereof and apply
the  same  to any liability or obligation of the Borrower, even though unmatured
and  regardless  of  the  adequacy  of  any other collateral securing any of the
Revolving Loans or other Obligations.  ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO REQUIRE THE BANK TO
EXERCISE  ITS  RIGHTS  OR  REMEDIES  WITH  RESPECT TO ANY OTHER COLLATERAL WHICH
SECURES  ANY  LOAN  OR  OTHER OBLIGATION PRIOR TO EXERCISING ITS RIGHT OF SETOFF
WITH  RESPECT  TO  SUCH  DEPOSITS, CREDITS OR OTHER PROPERTY OF THE BORROWER ARE
HEREBY  KNOWINGLY,  VOLUNTARILY  AND  IRREVOCABLY  WAIVED."

     y.     By adding to Section 5.4 of the Letter Agreement, at the end of such
Section,  the  following:

"Upon  the occurrence of any event described in clause (i) or clause (ii) of the
immediately  preceding  sentence, the Bank may also require the Borrower to cash
collateralize  the  outstanding  F/X Exposure and the outstanding ACH Exposure."

     z.     By  inserting  into  the first sentence of Section 6.1 of the Letter
Agreement,  immediately after the words "letter of credit issued hereunder", the
following:

"and/or  any  of  the  other  Obligations"

     aa.     By  inserting  into the first sentence of Section 6.1 of the Letter
Agreement,  immediately after the words "in connection herewith", the following:

"or  in  connection  with  any  of  the  other  Obligations"

     bb.     By  inserting  into the first sentence of Section 6.2 of the Letter
Agreement,  immediately  after  the words "for the account of any Borrower", the
following:

"and/or  any  of  the  other  Obligations"

     cc.     By  deleting the period at the end of the first sentence of Section
6.2  of  the  Letter  Agreement  and by substituting in its stead the following:

"and/or  any  of  the  other  Obligations."

     dd.     By changing the notice address of the Bank, pursuant to Section 6.6
of  the  Letter  Agreement,  to  the  following:

          "Fleet  National  Bank
           High  Technology  Division
           Mail  Code:  MA  OF  D07A
           One  Federal  Street,  7th  Floor
           Boston,  MA  02110
           Attention:  Lucie  Burke,  Vice  President"

     ee.     By  inserting into Section 6.7 of the Letter Agreement, immediately
after  the  fourth  sentence  of  such  Section,  the  following:

"Without  limitation  of  the  foregoing  generality,

(i)     The  Bank  may at any time pledge all or any portion of its rights under
the  Loan  Documents (including any portion of the Revolving Note) to any of the
12  Federal  Reserve Banks organized under Section 4 of the Federal Reserve Act,
12  U.S.C. Section 341.  No such pledge or the enforcement thereof shall release
the  Bank  from  its  obligations  under  any  of  the  Loan  Documents.

ii)     The  Bank shall have the unrestricted right at any time and from time to
time,  and  without the consent of or notice to any Borrower, to grant to one or
more banks or other financial institutions (each, a 'Participant') participating
interests  in  the  Bank's obligation to lend hereunder and/or any or all of the
Revolving  Loans  held by the Bank hereunder.  In the event of any such grant by
the  Bank  of  a  participating  interest  to a Participant, whether or not upon
notice to any Borrower, the Bank shall remain responsible for the performance of
its  obligations  hereunder  and the Borrowers shall continue to deal solely and
directly  with  the  Bank  in  connection with the Bank's rights and obligations
hereunder.  The Bank may furnish any information concerning the Borrowers in its
possession from time to time to prospective assignees and Participants; provided
that  the  Bank  shall  require  any such prospective assignee or Participant to
agree in writing to maintain the confidentiality of such information to the same
extent  as  the  Bank  would  be  required  to  maintain  such confidentiality."

     ff.     By inserting into Article VI of the Letter Agreement, at the end of
such  Article,  the  following:

"6.10.  Replacement  Note.  Upon  receipt  of  an affidavit of an officer of the
        -----------------
Bank  as  to the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of the Revolving Note or
of any other Loan Document which is not of public record and, in the case of any
such  mutilation, upon surrender and cancellation of the Revolving Note or other
Loan  Document,  the  Borrowers  will  issue,  in  lieu  thereof,  a replacement
Revolving  Note  or  other Loan Document in the same principal amount (as to the
Revolving  Note)  and  in  any  event  of  like  tenor.

6.11.  Usury.  All  agreements  between any one or more of the Borrowers and the
       -----
Bank are hereby expressly limited so that in no contingency or event whatsoever,
whether  by  reason  of  acceleration  of  maturity  of  the  Revolving  Note or
otherwise, shall the amount paid or agreed to be paid to the Bank for the use or
the forbearance of the Indebtedness represented by the Revolving Note exceed the
maximum  permissible  under  applicable  law.  In  this  regard, it is expressly
agreed  that  it  is the intent of the Borrowers and the Bank, in the execution,
delivery  and acceptance of the Revolving Note, to contract in strict compliance
with the laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  If, under any circumstances
whatsoever, performance or fulfillment of any provision of the Revolving Note or
any of the other Loan Documents at the time such provision is to be performed or
fulfilled shall involve exceeding the limit of validity prescribed by applicable
law,  then  the  obligation  so  to  be  performed or fulfilled shall be reduced
automatically  to  the  limit  of  such validity, and if under any circumstances
whatsoever the Bank should ever receive as interest an amount which would exceed
the  highest lawful rate, such amount which would be excessive interest shall be
applied  to  the  reduction  of the principal balance evidenced by the Revolving
Note  and  not  to  the payment of interest.  The provisions of this  6.11 shall
control  every  other  provision  of  this  Agreement and of the Revolving Note.

6.12.  WAIVER  OF  JURY  TRIAL.  EACH  BORROWER  AND  THE BANK HEREBY KNOWINGLY,
       -----------------------
VOLUNTARILY  AND  INTENTIONALLY  MUTUALLY  WAIVE THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN
RESPECT  OF  ANY CLAIM BASED HEREON, ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH
THIS  LETTER AGREEMENT, THE REVOLVING NOTE OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS OR OUT OF
ANY  COURSE  OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER ORAL OR WRITTEN)
OR  ACTIONS OF ANY PARTY.  THIS WAIVER CONSTITUTES A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE
BANK  TO  ENTER  INTO  THIS  LETTER  AGREEMENT  AND  TO  MAKE REVOLVING LOANS AS
CONTEMPLATED  HEREIN."

     gg.     By  inserting into Section 7.1 of the Letter Agreement, immediately
before  the  definition  of  "Adjusted  Debt",  the  following:

"'ACH  Exposure'  -  As  defined  in  1.5A."

     hh.     By  deleting  from the definition of "Expiration Date" appearing in
Section  7.1  of  the  Letter  Agreement the date "December 31, 1998" (such date
having  been  inserted  by  the  Second Modification) and by substituting in its
stead  the  following:

     "April  30,  2000"

As  a  result,  from  and  after the date hereof, for the purposes of the Letter
Agreement  and  the  other  Financing  Documents,  the "Expiration Date" will be
deemed  to  be  April  30,  2000.

     ii.     By  inserting into Section 7.1 of the Letter Agreement, immediately
after  the  definition  of  "Expiration  Date",  the  following:

"'F/X  Exposure'  -  As  defined  in  1.5B."

     jj.     By  inserting  into the definition of "Loan Documents" appearing in
Section  7.1  of  the  Letter Agreement, immediately after the words "letters of
credit  issued  hereunder",  the  following:

"or  to  any  Foreign  Exchange  Contract  or  ACH  transaction"


     kk.     By  deleting  in  its  entirety  the  definition of "Maximum Credit
Amount"  appearing  in  Section 7.1 of the Letter Agreement (such definition has
been  inserted  by the Second Modification) and by substituting in its stead the
following:

     "'Maximum  Credit  Amount'  -  $2,000,000."

     ll.     By  adding  to the definition of "Obligations" appearing in Section
7.1  of  the  Letter  Agreement,  at  the end of such definition, the following:

"'Obligations' includes, without limitation, the Revolving Loans and obligations
with  respect  to  ACH  transactions,  letters  of  credit  and Foreign Exchange
Contracts  issued  hereunder."

     mm.     By  deleting from the definition of "Principal Office" appearing in
Section  7.1  of  the  Letter  Agreement  the words "75 State Street, Boston, MA
02109"  and  by  substituting  in  their  stead  the  following:

          "One  Federal  Street,  Boston,  MA  02110"

     nn.     By adding to the definition of "Qualified Receivables" appearing in
Section  7.1  of  the  Letter  Agreement,  at  the  end  of such definition, the
following:

"In  no  event will 'Qualified Receivables' be deemed to include any Receivables
of  the  type described as 'Other Receivables' on the consolidated balance sheet
of  MathSoft  as  at  September  30,  1998,  as  delivered  to  the  Bank."

     oo.     By  deleting  the  period  at  the  end of Subsection 7.2(a) of the
Letter  Agreement  and  by  substituting  in  its  stead  the  following:

",  as  well  as  all  obligations  in  respect  of ACH transactions and Foreign
Exchange  Contracts."

     3.     Wherever in any Financing Document, or in any certificate or opinion
to  be  delivered  in  connection  therewith,  reference  is  made  to a "letter
agreement"  or  to  the  "Letter Agreement", from and after the date hereof same
will  be  deemed  to  refer  to  the  Letter  Agreement,  as  hereby  amended.

     4.     Simultaneously  with  the  execution and delivery of this Agreement,
the  Borrowers are executing and delivering to the Bank the 1999 Revolving Note,
in  substitution  for  the  1997  Revolving  Note.  The 1999 Revolving Note is a
$2,000,000  joint and several promissory note of the Borrowers, substantially in
the  form  attached  hereto  as  Exhibit  1.  Wherever  in  any of the Financing
Documents  or  in  any  certificate  or  opinion  to  be delivered in connection
therewith,  reference  is  made  to  a "Revolving Note", from and after the date
hereof  same  will  be  deemed  to  refer  to  the  1999  Revolving  Note.

     5.     In  order  to  induce  the  Bank  to  enter into this Agreement, the
Borrowers  jointly and severally represent and warrant that each of the MathSoft
IAR  Security  Agreement,  the  MathSoft  Supplementary  Security Agreement, the
StatSci  IAR  Security  Agreement, the StatSci Supplementary Security Agreement,
the  Trademark  Assignment  and  the  Patent Assignment remain in full force and
effect and secure, inter alia, the 1999 Revolving Note and the Letter Agreement,
                   ----- ----
as  amended  by  this  Agreement.

     6.     In  order  to  induce  the  Bank  to  enter into this Agreement, the
Borrowers  jointly and severally agree to pay, on demand, all costs and expenses
(including,  without  limitation,  reasonable  fees  and  expenses of the Bank's
attorneys)  incurred  by  the  Bank  in  connection with the preparation of this
Agreement  and/or  the  transactions  contemplated  hereby.

     7.     In  order  to  induce  the  Bank  to  enter into this Agreement, the
Borrowers  further  jointly  and  severally  represent  and  warrant as follows:

     a.     The  execution,  delivery  and performance of this Agreement and the
1999  Revolving  Note  have been duly authorized by each of the Borrowers by all
necessary  corporate and other action, will not require the consent of any third
party  (except  any such consents which have already been received) and will not
conflict  with,  violate  the provisions of, or cause a default or constitute an
event  which,  with  the  passage of time or the giving of notice or both, could
cause  a  default  on  the  part  of any Borrower under its charter documents or
by-laws  or  under  any  contract,  agreement,  law,  rule,  order,  ordinance,
franchise, instrument or other document, or result in the imposition of any lien
or  encumbrance  (except  in favor of the Bank) on any property or assets of any
Borrower.

     b.     Each Borrower has duly executed and delivered each of this Agreement
and  the  1999  Revolving  Note.

     c.     Each  of  this  Agreement  and the 1999 Revolving Note is the legal,
valid  and  binding  joint  and several obligation of the Borrowers, enforceable
against  each  of  the  Borrowers  in  accordance  with  its  respective  terms.

     d.     The statements, representations made in the Letter Agreement, in the
MathSoft  IAR  Security  Agreement,  in  the  MathSoft  Supplementary  Security
Agreement,  in  the  StatSci  IAR  Security  Agreement  and/or  in  the  StatSci
Supplementary  Security  Agreement continue to be correct as of the date hereof;
except  as  amended,  updated  and/or  supplemented by the attached Supplemental
Disclosure  Schedule.

     e.     Giving  effect  to  the  amendments contained in this Agreement, the
covenants  and agreements of each Borrower contained in the Letter Agreement, in
the  MathSoft  IAR  Security  Agreement,  in the MathSoft Supplementary Security
Agreement,  in  the  StatSci  IAR  Security  Agreement  and/or  in  the  StatSci
Supplementary  Security  Agreement have been complied with on and as of the date
hereof.

     f.     Giving  effect  to  amendments contained in this Agreement, no event
which  constitutes,  or  which,  with  notice  or  lapse  of time or both, could
constitute,  an  Event  of  Default  (as  defined  in  the Letter Agreement) has
occurred  and  is  continuing.

     g.     Except  as  heretofore disclosed in writing to the Bank, no material
adverse change has occurred in the financial condition of any Borrower from that
disclosed in the unaudited consolidated financial statements of the Borrowers as
at  December  31,  1998,  heretofore  furnished  to  the  Bank.

     8.     Except  as  expressly affected hereby, the Letter Agreement and each
of the other Financing Documents remains in full force and effect as heretofore.

     9.     Nothing  contained herein will be deemed to constitute a waiver or a
release  of  any provision of any of the Financing Documents.  Nothing contained
herein  will  in any event be deemed to constitute an agreement to give a waiver
or  a  release  or to agree to any amendment or modification of any provision of
any  of  the  Financing  Documents  on  any  other  or  future  occasion.


<PAGE>
     Executed,  as  an instrument under seal, as of the day and year first above
written.

MATHSOFT,  INC.


By:     /s/  Robert  P.  Orlando
             -------------------
     Name:  Robert  P.  Orlando
     Title:  VP  Finance  &Administration,CFO

STATISTICAL  SCIENCES,  INC.


By:      /s/  Robert  P.  Orlando
              -------------------
     Name:  Robert  P.  Orlando
     Title:  VP  Finance  & Administration,CFO

Accepted  and  agreed:
FLEET  NATIONAL  BANK


By:     /s/  Lucie  Burke
     Name:  Lucie Burke
     Title:  Vice  President


                                 PROMISSORY NOTE


$2,000,000.00                                                   Boston,
Massachusetts
                                                               February 24, 1999


     FOR  VALUE  RECEIVED,  the  undersigned  MathSoft,  Inc.,  a  Massachusetts
corporation  ("MathSoft")  and  Statistical  Sciences,  Inc.,  a  Massachusetts
corporation  ("StatSci")  (MathSoft  and  StatSci  being hereinafter referred to
collectively as the "Borrowers" and individually as a "Borrower") hereby jointly
and  severally  promise  to pay to the order of FLEET NATIONAL BANK (the "Bank")
the  principal  amount of Two Million and 00/100 ($2,000,000.00) Dollars or such
portion  thereof  as  has  been  advanced  by  the  Bank  and/or  its  corporate
predecessor  or  may  hereafter be advanced by the Bank pursuant to  1.2 of that
certain  letter  agreement  among the Borrowers and Fleet Bank of Massachusetts,
N.A.  dated January 11, 1996, as amended (as so amended, the "Letter Agreement")
(the  Bank  having  succeeded to the rights of Fleet Bank of Massachusetts, N.A.
thereunder)  and  remains outstanding from time to time hereunder ("Principal"),
with  interest,  at  the rate hereinafter set forth, on the daily balance of all
unpaid  Principal,  from  the date hereof until payment in full of all Principal
and  interest  hereunder.

     Interest  on  all  unpaid  Principal  shall  be  due and payable monthly in
arrears, on the first day of each month, commencing on the first such date after
the  advance  of  any  Principal  and  continuing on the first day of each month
thereafter  and  on  the  date of payment of this note in full, at a fluctuating
rate  per  annum  (computed  on the basis of a year of three hundred sixty (360)
days  for the actual number of days elapsed) which shall at all times (except as
described  in  the  next  sentence)  be  equal to the sum of (i) one-half of one
(0.5%)  percent plus (ii) the Prime Rate, as in effect from time to time (but in
                ----
no event in excess of the maximum rate permitted by then applicable law), with a
change  in the aforesaid rate of interest shall become effective on the same day
on  which  any change in the Prime Rate is effective.  Overdue Principal and, to
the  extent  permitted by law, overdue interest from and after the date on which
same  becomes past due shall bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum which
at  all  times shall be equal to the sum of (i) four (4%) percent per annum plus
                                                                            ----
(ii)  the  per  annum rate otherwise payable under this note (but in no event in
excess of the maximum rate permitted by then applicable law), compounded monthly
and payable on demand.  As used herein, "Prime Rate" means that variable rate of
interest  per  annum designated by the Bank from time to time as its prime rate,
it  being  understood  that  such  rate  is merely a reference rate and does not
necessarily represent the lowest or best rate being charged to any customer.  If
the  entire  amount of any required Principal and/or interest is not paid within
ten  (10)  days  after  the  same  is due, the Borrowers shall pay (and shall be
jointly  and  severally  obligated  to pay) to the Bank a late fee equal to five
percent  (5%)  of  the  required  payment,  provided that such late fee shall be
reduced to three percent (3%) of any required Principal and interest that is not
paid within fifteen (15) days of the date it is due if this note is secured by a
mortgage  on  an  owner-occupied  residence  of  1-4  units.

     All outstanding Principal and all interest accrued thereon shall be due and
payable in full on the first to occur of:  (i) an acceleration under  5.2 of the
Letter Agreement or (ii) April 30, 2000.  The Borrowers may at any time and from
time  to  time  prepay  all or any portion of said Principal, without premium or
penalty.  Under  certain  circumstances  set  forth  in  the  Letter  Agreement,
prepayments  of  Principal  may  be  required.

     Payments  of  both Principal and interest shall be made, in lawful money of
the  United  States  in  immediately  available funds, at the office of the Bank
located  at  One  Federal  Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02110, or at such other
address  as  the  Bank  may  from  time  to  time  designate.

     Each  of  the undersigned Borrowers irrevocably authorizes the Bank to make
or  cause to be made, on a schedule attached to this note or on the books of the
Bank,  at  or following the time of making any Revolving Loan (as defined in the
Letter  Agreement)  and  of  receiving  any payment of Principal, an appropriate
notation  reflecting  such  transaction and the then aggregate unpaid balance of
Principal.  Failure  of  the  Bank to make any such notation shall not, however,
affect  any  obligation of any Borrower hereunder or under the Letter Agreement.
The  unpaid Principal balance of this note, as recorded by the Bank from time to
time on such schedule or on such books, shall constitute presumptive evidence of
the  aggregate  unpaid  principal  amount  of  the  Revolving  Loans.

     Each  Borrower  hereby  (a)  waives  notice  of and consents to any and all
advances,  settlements,  compromises, favors and indulgences (including, without
limitation,  any extension or postponement of the time for payment), any and all
receipts,  substitutions,  additions,  exchanges and releases of collateral, and
any  and  all  additions,  substitutions and releases of any person primarily or
secondarily  liable,  (b)  waives  presentment,  demand, notice, protest and all
other demands and notices generally in connection with the delivery, acceptance,
performance,  default  or  enforcement  of or under this note, and (c) agrees to
pay,  to the extent permitted by law, all costs and expenses, including, without
limitation,  reasonable  attorneys'  fees,  incurred  or  paid  by  the  Bank in
enforcing  this note and any collateral or security therefor, all whether or not
litigation  is  commenced.

     This  note is the Revolving Note referred to in the Letter Agreement.  This
note  is secured by, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Security Agreements
(as defined in the Letter Agreement).  This note is subject to prepayment as set
forth in the Letter Agreement. The maturity of this note may be accelerated upon
the  occurrence  of  an  Event  of Default, as provided in the Letter Agreement.
This  note  is  the  joint  and  several  obligation of each of the undersigned.

     EACH  BORROWER  HEREBY  KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVES THE
RIGHT  TO  A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY CLAIM BASED ON THIS NOTE OR ARISING
OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS NOTE OR ANY RELATED DOCUMENTS OR OUT OF
ANY  COURSE  OF CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER ORAL OR WRITTEN)
OR ACTIONS OF ANY PERSON.  THIS WAIVER CONSTITUTES A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR THE
BANK  TO  ACCEPT  THIS  NOTE  AND TO MAKE REVOLVING LOANS AS CONTEMPLATED IN THE
LETTER  AGREEMENT.

<PAGE>

     Executed,  as  an instrument under seal, as of the day and year first above
written.

CORPORATE  SEAL                         MATHSOFT,  INC.

ATTEST:


/s/  Gordon Hayes                               By:  /s/  Robert  P.  Orlando
- - -----------------------                         -----------------------------
Assistant  Clerk                                   Name:  Robert  P.  Orlando
                                         Title:   VP  Finance  &  Admin,  CFO


CORPORATE  SEAL                         STATISTICAL  SCIENCES,  INC.

ATTEST:


/s/  Gordon Hayes                               By:  /s/  Robert  P.  Orlando
- - -----------------------                         -----------------------------
Assistant  Clerk                                     Name:Robert  P.  Orlando
                                          Title:  VP  Finance  &  Admin,  CFO


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

          Exhibit  21.1
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SUBSIDIARIES




STATISTICAL  SCIENCES.  INC.
(A  MASSACHUSETTS  CORPORATION)


TRIMETRIX,  INC.
(A  WASHINGTON  CORPORATION)


ACROSCIENCE  CORPORATION
(A  WASHINGTON  CORPORATION)
<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
<TEXT>


                                                                   Exhibit 23.1






                    Consent of Independent Public Accountants



As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation of our
reports  included  in  this  Form  10-K,  into  the  Company's  previously filed
Registration  Statement  File  Nos.  33-58560,  33-74848,  33-72162,  33-94466,
33-87542,  33-99618,  33-99620,  333-165005, 333-18245, 333-19513 and 333-43833.



   /s/ Arthur  Andersen  LLP



Boston,  Massachusetts
March  30,  1999
<PAGE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1
<CURRENCY> U.S. DOLLARS
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1998
<PERIOD-START>                             JAN-01-1998
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1998
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                       5,706,657
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                5,318,087
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                    374,320
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                            11,741,663
<PP&E>                                       7,344,361
<DEPRECIATION>                               6,082,535
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                              13,492,084
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                        7,302,163
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                        93,244
<OTHER-SE>                                   5,957,263
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                13,492,084
<SALES>                                     20,839,101
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                            24,446,771
<CGS>                                        2,963,682
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                4,245,767
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                            18,040,148
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              86,066
<INCOME-PRETAX>                              2,243,007
<INCOME-TAX>                                    22,879
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                          2,220,128
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                 2,220,128
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                      .24
<EPS-DILUTED>                                      .22
        

<PAGE>


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.2
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1
<CURRENCY> U.S. DOLLARS
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-30-1997
<PERIOD-START>                             JAN-01-1997
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1997
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                       4,133,541
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                3,472,334
<ALLOWANCES>                                         0
<INVENTORY>                                    255,205
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             8,094,794
<PP&E>                                       6,684,945
<DEPRECIATION>                               5,315,979
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               9,812,150
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                        6,243,076
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                        91,086
<OTHER-SE>                                   3,404,237
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 9,812,150
<SALES>                                     18,039,610
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                            21,223,511
<CGS>                                        3,397,952
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                4,481,839
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                            18,903,162
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              41,068
<INCOME-PRETAX>                            (2,082,159)
<INCOME-TAX>                                    46,655
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                        (2,128,814)
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                               (2,128,814)
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                    (.24)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                    (.24)
        

<PAGE>


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>SCHEDULE I REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>


S-1


                    Report of Independent Public Accountants



To  MathSoft,  Inc.:

We  have  audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, the
consolidated  financial  statements included in MathSoft, Inc. and subsidiaries'
annual  report  to shareholders incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and
have  issued our report thereon dated February 24, 1999.  Our audit was made for
the  purpose  of  forming  an opinion on those statements taken as a whole.  The
schedule  listed  in  Item  14(a)(2)  of  the index is the responsibility of the
Company's  management  and  is  presented  for  purposes  of  complying with the
Securities  and  Exchange  Commission's  rules  and  is  not  part  of the basic
consolidated  financial  statements.  This  schedule  has  been subjected to the
auditing  procedures  applied  in  the audit of the basic consolidated financial
statements  and,  in  our  opinion, fairly states, in all material respects, the
financial  data  required  to  be  set  forth  therein  in relation to the basic
financial  statements  taken  as  a  whole.



                                                        /s/arthur  andersen  llp



Boston,  Massachusetts
February  24,  1999


                                       S-1

<PAGE>



</TEXT>

</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.2
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>SCHEDULE II VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
<TEXT>







     Schedule  II
                                       S-2

                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      BALANCE,     CHARGED TO                  BALANCE,
                                     BEGINNING OF   COSTS AND                    END OF
                                        PERIOD      EXPENSES     DEDUCTIONS     PERIOD

<S>                                        <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>
Year Ended December 31, 1998:
Allowance for doubtful accounts . . . . .  $  459,820  $   97,708  $388,466  $  169,062
Allowance for sales returns . . . . . . .   1,138,513     122,487   560,453     700,547
                                           ----------  ----------  --------  ----------

Total reserve for accounts receivable . .  $1,598,333  $  220,195  $948,919  $  869,609
                                           ==========  ==========  ========  ==========

Six-Month Period Ended December 31, 1997:
Allowance for doubtful accounts . . . . .  $  410,825  $   56,660  $  7,665  $  459,820
Allowance for sales returns . . . . . . .   1,309,031     105,119   275,637   1,138,513
                                           ----------  ----------  --------  ----------

Total reserve for accounts receivable . .  $1,719,856  $  161,779  $283,302  $1,598,333
                                           ==========  ==========  ========  ==========

Year Ended June 30, 1997:
Allowance for doubtful accounts . . . . .  $  376,734  $   83,297  $ 49,206  $  410,825
Allowance for sales returns . . . . . . .     398,944   1,306,858   396,771   1,309,031
                                           ----------  ----------  --------  ----------

Total reserve for accounts receivable . .  $  775,678  $1,390,155  $445,977  $1,719,856
                                           ==========  ==========  ========  ==========

Year Ended June 30, 1996:
Allowance for doubtful accounts . . . . .  $  510,322  $   73,573  $207,161  $  376,734
Allowance for sales returns . . . . . . .     536,642     348,549   486,247     398,944
                                           ----------  ----------  --------  ----------

Total reserve for accounts receivable . .  $1,046,964  $  422,122  $693,408  $  775,678
                                           ==========  ==========  ========  ==========
</TABLE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
