-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BjnK47RSXQ+7zHp0nZARxWE7+lzS45dqPBP6X/vZzF/ILchaGtXZCbZKQGD3rJgg
 KWaJdSIRExbdrZfWpheB2Q==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001015402-00-000823.txt : 20000331
<SEC-HEADER>0001015402-00-000823.hdr.sgml : 20000331
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001015402-00-000823
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19991231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20000330

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MATHSOFT INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895095
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				042842217
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20992
		FILM NUMBER:		584927

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 MAIN ST
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142-1017
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6175771017

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 MAIN STREET
		CITY:			CAMBRIDGE
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02142-1521
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC  20549
                                  ____________

                                    FORM 10-K



X      ANNUAL  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
- --     ACT OF 1934

For  the  fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1999

                         Commission file number 0-020992

                                    MATHSOFT, INC.
                                    --------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


               MASSACHUSETTS                                      04-2842217
       -------------------------------                         -----------------
       (State  or  other  jurisdiction                         (I.R.S.  employer
     of  incorporation  or  organization)                       identification)

     101  MAIN  STREET,  CAMBRIDGE,  MASSACHUSETTS                   02142
     ---------------------------------------------                -----------
     (Address  of  principal  executive  offices)                 (Zip  code)


Registrant's  telephone  number,  including  area  code  (617)  577-1017

Securities  registered  pursuant  to  Section  12(g)  of  the  Act:


                          COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE
                          ----------------------------
                                (Title of class)

     Indicate  by  check mark whether the registrant:  (1) has filed all reports
required  to  be  filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or  for  such shorter period that the
registrant  was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing  requirements  for  the  past  90  days.  Yes  X   No
                                                     ---      ---

     Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  registrant's  knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form  10-K.

     The  aggregate  market  value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the  registrant  was approximately $52,059,025 as of March 23, 2000 (computed by
reference  to  the  closing  price of such stock on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market).
The  number  of  shares of common stock, $.01 par value, outstanding as of March
23,  2000  was  10,167,678.

     Documents  incorporated  by  reference  in  Part  III  of  this 10-K: Proxy
Statement  for  Registrant's  2000  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders.


<PAGE>
                                     PART I
ITEM  1.  BUSINESS.
                                     General

MathSoft,  Inc.  ("MathSoft"  or  the  "Company") develops, markets and supports
software  productivity tools and services for the technical calculation and data
analysis markets comprised of technical professionals, researchers, students and
educators.  In  addition,  the  Company  through  its  recently  incorporated
wholly-owned  subsidiary  FreeScholarships.com,  provides  information  and
assistance to a broad market of parents and students concerned about funding the
costs  of  education.

Mathcad  ,  the  Company's  principal  technical  calculation product, was first
released  in fiscal 1987 and can be used by desktop and laptop computer users to
perform  calculations  from  the  simple to the elaborate, and then document the
results.  Mathcad  offers  technical  professionals,  educators, and students an
interactive,  intuitive,  easy-to-modify  alternative  to  their  traditional
calculation  methods  such  as  pencil  and  paper, scratchpads and calculators.

The  market for technical calculation software includes technical professionals,
such  as electrical, mechanical and civil engineers, scientists, mathematicians,
researchers,  technicians  and  analysts,  as well as educators and students who
regularly  are  required  to  perform  technical calculations. These users often
refer  to a wide range of published materials containing formulas or data, which
can  be  used  in  solving  technical  problems.

In 1992, the Company expanded its technical calculation software product line by
introducing  Electronic Books as add-on products to Mathcad. These books deliver
extensive  off-the-shelf technical information, such as formulas and data, which
is  critical  to  technical  problem  solving.  Through  the  use  of MathSoft's
proprietary "live document interface (TM)," these books provide the Mathcad user
with  on-screen  access  to  interactive  technical  information. This enables a
Mathcad  user  to  either perform calculations in the book itself or to transfer
formulas,  data and results to Mathcad for instant calculation and analysis. The
Company  delivers  electronic  versions of industry leading reference works from
nationally  and internationally recognized publishers, in addition to internally
authored  works.  In  addition,  the Company licenses its Mathcad and Electronic
Book  authoring  technology  to  third  party  publishers  for  use  in creating
interactive  Electronic  Books  which are marketed and distributed by such third
party  publishers  as  stand-alone  products.

In  May  1993,  the Company opened an international office located in the United
Kingdom  to  broaden  distribution of its products.  For the twelve months ended
December  31,  1999,  international  sales of all technical calculation and data
analysis  software  products and services represented approximately 27% of total
revenues  (refer to footnotes 6 and 7 in the accompanying financial statements).

In June 1993, the Company introduced a new product line through its wholly owned
subsidiary,  Statistical  Sciences,  Inc.,  now  referred  to as MathSoft's Data
Analysis  Products  Division  ("DAPD").  DAPD develops and markets advanced data
analysis  software  products  and  services  based  on  "S," a computer language
designed  for  statistics  applications. DAPD's principal product is S-PLUS , an
interactive  computing  environment that provides both a full-featured graphical
data  analysis system and an object-oriented language. The Company acquired this
business  on  June  30, 1993 through the acquisition of substantially all of the
assets  and  business  of  Statistical Sciences, Inc., a Washington corporation.
For  the twelve-months ended December 31, 1999, worldwide sales of data analysis
products  and  services  represented  approximately  43%  of  total  revenues.

The  market  for  data  analysis  software  consists principally of professional
scientists,  engineers, statisticians and business analysts as well as educators
and  students.  Data  analysis  products  are  used in such fields as biomedical
technology,  quantitative  financial analysis and risk assessment, environmental
science  and  engineering,  industrial and market research, and process control.


                                        2
<PAGE>
In  November 1995, the Company acquired TriMetrix, Inc. ("TriMetrix").  MathSoft
complemented its technical calculation product line with the addition of Axum(R)
a  Windows-based  technical  charting  and  data  analysis product acquired with
TriMetrix,  which  transforms,  manipulates  and sorts data sets to perform both
simple  and  advanced analysis. Axum has been redesigned to link seamlessly with
Mathcad  and  the  Axum technology is now a key component of S-PLUS for Windows.

In June 1996, the  Company released StudyWorks!(TM) for Math and StudyWorks! for
Science  targeted  specifically  toward  high  school  and non-technical college
students  and  educators. Both StudyWorks products offer an interactive learning
environment  and assist students in both mastering math and science concepts and
creating  professional  looking homework and lab reports in addition to allowing
both  educators  and  students  the  ability  to  collaborate  on  projects.  In
September  1996,  the  Company announced the release of StudyWorks!  Schools, an
instructional  edition  of  the  StudyWorks  for Math and StudyWorks for Science
software, which offers teachers a tools-based, interactive teaching and learning
environment.

In  November 1996, the Company acquired acroScience Corporation ("acroScience").
MathSoft integrated the visual modeling and programming technology acquired from
acroScience  into  Mathcad.

In  April  1997,  the  Company  expanded  its  data  analysis  product  line  by
introducing  MathSoft  StatServer(TM),  a  warehouse-independent  platform  for
distributing  statistical  analysis  and  graphics to business professionals and
analysts  over  corporate  Intranets.  StatServer  uses the S-PLUS technology to
create  deployable intelligent analytics for an organization and integrates with
existing  data  storage  and  desktop  applications.

In  December  1997,  the  Company  changed  its  fiscal year end from June 30 to
December  31.  Accordingly,  the Company began a new twelve-month fiscal year on
January  1, 1998.  The six-month period resulting from this change, July 1, 1997
through  December  31,  1997,  is  referred  to  as  the  "Transition  Period."

In  June  1999,  the Company incorporated FreeScholarships.com as a wholly-owned
subsidiary. This internet company provides information and assistance to a broad
market  of  parents and students concerned about funding the costs of education.
Freescholarships.com  awards money to pay for tuition costs through online daily
sweepstakes  that  United  States  residents  aged  13  or  older  can  win.

The  Company's  goals are threefold: 1) to continue to broaden the appeal of its
software  products  through  technical  innovation and deep integration with the
world  wide  web;  2) to aggressively build a services business both on-line and
off-line,  that  leverages  the  Companys'  software  product  franchises; 3) to
reinvent  the  company  through  aggressive  investment in its new educationally
focused internet venture, FreeScholarships.com. The Company  was incorporated in
Massachusetts in October 1984 under the name Engineering Specific Products Corp.
and  changed its name to MathSoft, Inc. in January 1986. The Company's principal
executive  offices  are  located  at  101  Main Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142,  and  its  telephone  number  is  (617)  577-1017.


                                        3
<PAGE>
                                    Products

ENGINEERING  AND  EDUCATION  SOFTWARE  PRODUCTS

MathSoft  publishes a range of  engineering and education software products that
allow  users to perform calculations and create publication-quality documents on
personal  computers.  Its  principal  product  in  this category, Mathcad, is to
technical  professionals  what  spreadsheets  have  proven  to  be  for business
professionals.  Mathcad  can  be  used  by  desktop and laptop computer users to
perform  technical calculations, from the simple to the elaborate. An innovative
feature of Mathcad is its ability to allow the user to electronically access and
manipulate  formulas  and  data  available in the Company's Electronic Books and
Extension  Packs.  Electronic  Books  provide  on-screen  libraries  of
industry-leading  reference  works,  user  guides,  solution  templates,  and
educational materials while Extension Packs provide additional functionality for
advanced  users.  StudyWorks,  the  most  recent addition to the Mathcad product
line,  was  designed as an integrated learning tool combining math, text, graphs
and  graphics for the high school and college market.  StudyWorks helps students
master  math  and  science  concepts,  get  better  grades  and  create
professional-looking  homework  and  lab  reports.

Mathcad

Mathcad's  broad appeal lies in its use of MathSoft's proprietary "live document
interface" technology. This permits users to calculate on a computer in much the
same  way  that  they  would  on  a  scratchpad  where  equations can be written
anywhere,  using real math notation, and erased, changed and moved. A scratchpad
can  show  a  variety  of  expressions  such  as  formulas, words, graphs, data,
equations  and  pictures.  Mathcad  works  in  a  similar  free-form  manner  by
literally  turning  a  computer  screen  into  a  live  worksheet,  providing an
intuitive interface to perform a wide range of numeric or symbolic calculations,
with  a  distinct  advantage  over  a  real  scratchpad  -  Mathcad  calculates.

When  using  Mathcad,  the  computer  screen  initially  appears  blank,  like a
scratchpad.  Using  the  keyboard  and the mouse, the user begins by placing the
cursor  anywhere  on the screen and then starts typing. To create a formula, the
user  types  keystrokes  such as +, /, or * or uses a mouse to click on a symbol
palette.  As  the  user  types,  Mathcad  automatically  formats the formulas in
standard mathematical notation and instantly calculates the results. To create a
graph,  the  user  selects  the  graph  symbol  from the palette and defines the
parameters  of  the  graph. As with an electronic spreadsheet, Mathcad instantly
updates  results as changes to variables or formulas are made. Text may be added
anywhere.  Multi-page  presentation  quality  documents can be printed, complete
with  text,  graphics,  tables  and  equations.  Mathcad's free-form interactive
environment  makes  it  ideal  for  formulating  ideas,  setting up problems and
evolving  solutions and sharing both the process and the results through printed
documents,  e-mail  and  the  World  Wide  Web.

Mathcad  is used as a calculator for simple formulas, as a more elaborate solver
for  equations  formally  linked within a "live document," as a technical report
generator,  as  a  live  charting  facility,  and  as  a  mathematical  teaching
environment.  Mathcad  also  provides an interface to online technical reference
works.  Mathcad  performs  numeric  and  symbolic  calculations  in the real and
complex  domain, solves systems of linear and non-linear equations, and performs
iterative  calculations.

Add-on  Products

An  extension  of the Mathcad product line, Electronic Books and Extension Packs
deliver information and solutions in an interactive form to Mathcad users.  They
provide  the  user  with  on-screen  libraries  of  technical data combined with
Mathcad's  capacity  to  utilize  and  manipulate the raw data through its "live
document interface."  This enables the user to search the book for material, use
hyperlinks  to  jump to related sections within the work, and calculate problems
and manipulate data using formulas and data contained in the work. A key feature
of  MathSoft's  Electronic  Books  is that the material is live and interactive,
enabling  a  Mathcad  user to apply the formulas or data from the book either by
performing  calculations  in  the book itself or by transferring the formulas or
data,  or  results,  to  Mathcad  for  calculation  and  analysis.  Without  the
Electronic  Book,  the  user must manually key in entire formulas from published
sources  before  using  the  software  to  solve equations. The book may contain
reference  information  (e.g.,  the properties of various materials and standard
formulas),  solutions  for  standard engineering problems, tutorials on selected
topics,  or  educational  courseware.  Additionally,  Mathcad's  "live  document
interface"  supports  the  inclusion  of  sound  and  video  components.


                                        4
<PAGE>
In  addition  to  internally  authored  works,  the  Company delivers electronic
versions of industry-leading reference works from nationally and internationally
recognized  publishers. The agreements by which the Company licenses content for
Electronic  Books  from publishers typically provide for a non-exclusive license
at  an  agreed-upon royalty rate, and continue for a term of five to seven years
unless  extended  by  mutual  agreement.

The  Company  also licenses its Mathcad and Electronic Book authoring technology
to third party publishers for use in creating interactive Electronic Books which
are  marketed  and  distributed  by  such  third party publishers as stand-alone
products.  Users  are  not  required  to use Mathcad to access these interactive
Electronic  Books.

Extension  Packs  provide  additional  functionality  to Mathcad in the areas of
signal  processing, wavelets, image processing, and advanced optimization.  Once
installed, the functions are seamlessly integrated with the Mathcad function set
allowing the user to see results immediately and explore the effects of changing
parameters  in  mathematical  routines.

Axum

In  November  1995,  the  Company  acquired  TriMetrix, Inc., a software company
located  in  Seattle,  Washington and the developer of Axum software.  Axum is a
Windows-based advanced technical graphing and data analysis software that offers
scientists and engineers in the technical professional market, including Mathcad
users, the advanced charting tools needed for creating compelling, highly visual
presentations  and  publication-quality  documents.  Users  can  transform,
manipulate  and  sort  data  sets  to perform both simple and advanced analysis.
Axum  has  also  been  redesigned  to  link  seamlessly  with  Mathcad.

StudyWorks

StudyWorks!(TM) for Math and StudyWorks!(TM) for Science, productivity  software
for high school and college students and their  teachers, was designed as a rich
learning environment that helps students understand math  and  science problems,
complete and  check a  variety of solutions, and  print  out great looking  lab
reports and homework  papers.  Each product is a three-in-one combination of  an
application, rich interactive content and two-way internet  access.  StudyWorks
is based on a powerful  graphical  calculation and document preparation tool and
includes rich multimedia encyclopedias  of  math  and  science  formulas and key
concepts in algebra, geometry, earth science, chemistry,  pre-calculus, physics,
calculus and statistics.  Users  also receive built-in links  to  the  Company's
StudyWorks home  page,  which  allows  high  school  students, college  students
and teachers to  participate  in  virtual  study  groups  and discussion forums,
pick up Homework Hints  and  link  to  related  sites  on the  World  Wide  Web.


                                        5
<PAGE>
DATA  ANALYSIS  SOFTWARE  PRODUCTS

S-PLUS

On  June  30,  1993, the Company acquired Statistical Sciences, Inc., a software
company  located in Seattle, Washington. The Company's principal product in this
category, S-PLUS, is an advanced, exploratory data analysis and statistical data
mining  solution for technical and business professionals who need sophisticated
analysis  and  visualization  capabilities.  Based  on  the  object-oriented "S"
programming  language  licensed  from  Lucent  Technologies Inc., S-PLUS enables
users  to perform exploratory data analysis, graphics, statistics, visualization
and  mathematical  computing  in the Windows and UNIX environments.  The primary
advantage  of S-PLUS lies within the "S" Language.  The "S" language is the only
modern  object-oriented language created specifically for data visualization and
exploration,  statistical  modeling and programming with data.  This interactive
language  environment  gives  users  immediate  feedback at every stage of their
analysis.

Services

The  Company believes that providing a high level of support to its customers is
a  critical  requirement  for customer satisfaction and the long-term success of
the  Company.  The  Company  believes  it  has  established  a strong history of
responsiveness  to  customer requirements. The Company delivers this support for
its  data  analysis  products  through  its maintenance, consulting and training
services.

The  Company  provides  product  updates  and  enhancements and customer support
services  under  an  annual  maintenance  agreement  offered  to  its customers.
Maintenance  fees  are  based  on  a percentage of the current list price of the
licensed software products.  The data analysis products' consulting and training
organization  provides  fee-based services, including implementation assistance,
project  management,  application  extension  or customization, integration with
existing  customer applications and similar services to the Company's customers.
The  Company  offers a comprehensive series of fee-based training courses to its
customers.  Courses  can  be  taken  at  the  Company's Seattle location, at the
customer's  site,  at  other  prearranged  sites  for larger customer groups, or
online  via  the  internet.

Modules

To  complement  S-PLUS,  the Company offers add-on modules that work with S-PLUS
and  provide  additional  "S"  language  functions for specialized data analysis
purposes.

StatServer

In  April  1997,  the  Company  expanded  its  data  analysis  product  line  by
introducing  MathSoft  StatServer(TM).  StatServer  enables  corporations  to
leverage  existing  client/server and internet/intranet technologies and deploy
statistical expertise throughout an organization.  StatServer is data warehouse-
independent and integrates  seamlessly  with  all  standard  database  and  data
warehouse  formats.  The  robust  database  support  provides  the  tools  for
advanced  analysis  and  data  visualization  of  the  most  popular  relational
databases.  With StatServer, basic statistical models  and  data  visualization
capabilities  are  built  and stored  in  a  central  server  for access by non-
technical users, who can apply these  analytical techniques  from a  single  and
familiar  client  to  understand or interpret key data sets.  Using  StatServer,
professionals in diverse fields  such  as finance, biomedicine and manufacturing
can  use  familiar  tools  such  as  Excel(R), Netscape(R) or Powerbuilder(R) to
access corporate data  resources  and  perform data  analysis  without  becoming
experts  in  statistics  or  users  of  statistical  tools.  StatServer  moves
beyond the capabilities  of report writers, spreadsheet applications  and stand-
alone  data  analysis  software,  representing  a  significant  advancement  in
decision  support  and  data  mining  technology.


                                        6
<PAGE>
FREESCHOLARSHIPS.COM  PRODUCTS

FreeScholarships.com ("FSC") is an early stage internet company whose mission is
to  assist  families in meeting the rising costs of education. FSC achieves this
objective primarily by awarding scholarships to pay the costs of tuition through
online  drawings. It also provides relevant information to students and families
on  educational  financial  planning  and  school  selection.

Visitors  to  the  site  can  freely  access  the site's rich and varied content
without  registering.  Those  who register can participate in daily, monthly and
quarterly  drawings for scholarship awards. These awards are independent of need
or  merit  and  are selected via a computer-generated random drawing. Registered
members can increase their chances of winning these drawings by participating in
the  site's  various  activities  or  by  surfing  the  site's  content.

The  Company  anticipates  that  it  will  generate  revenue through the sale of
advertising  inventory,  site  sponsorships, email list rentals and a variety of
commerce-oriented  activities.

In  order to serve users more effectively and to extend the FreeScholarships.com
brand to new media properties, FSC has entered into strategic relationships with
business  partners who offer content, technology, and distribution capabilities.

MARKETING  AND  SALES

Engineering  and  Education  Software  Products

The Company's market for engineering and education software products consists of
two  significant  groups  of  end  users:  technical professionals and academia,
including  educators  and students. End users within the technical professionals
group  span  numerous  fields  and  include  electrical,  mechanical  and  civil
engineers,  scientists,  mathematicians,  researchers, technicians and analysts.
The education market consists of secondary, undergraduate and graduate educators
and students in many technical disciplines. The Company's products are currently
used  as  tools  for diverse purposes, from back-of-the-envelope calculations to
bridge  design  and  genetic  engineering.

MathSoft  reaches  domestic  customers of Mathcad primarily through a network of
educational  and  commercial  third  party  resellers  and  distributors.  To
complement  this  network,  the  Company  has  a domestic telesales organization
focused on sales to the registered installed base as well as on lead generation,
prospect  qualification  and  sales  of  site  license  agreements  and  network
licenses.  In addition, Mathcad upgrades are primarily marketed to the Company's
registered installed base via direct mail.  For the twelve months ended December
31, 1999, domestic sales through distributor and reseller channels accounted for
approximately  54%  of  total  domestic  sales  of the Company's engineering and
education  software products, with the balance of such sales made through either
installed base direct mail, the Company's telesales operations, electronic mail,
or  the Company's webstore.  One distributor, Ingram Micro, accounted for 13% of
net  revenues,  for  each of the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998.  Ingram
Micro  also  accounted  for  12% and 14% of net revenues in the six month period
ended  December 31, 1997 and the year ended June 30, 1997, respectively.  Ingram
Micro is a distributor of our products primarily to various resellers and retail
accounts,  none of which comprised more than 10% of the Company's total revenues
during  the  periods  mentioned.

Internationally,  all  engineering  and education software products are marketed
primarily through a network of resellers and distributors.  Mathcad upgrades are
marketed  through  distributors  as well as to the registered installed base via
direct mail.  For the twelve months ended December 31, 1999, international sales
through resellers and distributors accounted for substantially all international
sales  of  technical  calculation  software  products.

Data  Analysis  Software  Products

The  Company's  market  for  data  analysis  products  consists  principally  of
professional  and academic scientists, engineers and statisticians.  The product
is used in such fields as biomedical technology, quantitative financial analysis
and  risk  assessment,  environmental  science  and  engineering, industrial and
market  research,  and  process  control.


                                        7
<PAGE>
The  Company  reaches  domestic  customers  of  its  data analysis products both
through  its  domestic  telesales organization and an outside sales team.  Leads
are  generated  from  advertising, public relations, seminars and tradeshows and
then  pursued  by  the  telesales  organization.

Internationally,  the  Company  reaches  customers of its data analysis products
primarily  through  a  network  of  resellers  and  distributors.  In the United
Kingdom,  the  Company  sells  directly  to  end-users.

FreeScholarships.com

Freescholarships.com  marketing and sales activities will initially focus on the
launching and marketing of the FSC's website.  The marketing goals of FSC are to
attract  and retain users of its online services and properties. To support user
acquisition,  FSC  markets  its  products  and services through a broad array of
programs  and  strategies,  including  daily  sweepstakes, broadcast advertising
campaigns,  direct  response  e-mail,  co-marketing  agreements,  and  the  Web.

CUSTOMER  TECHNICAL  SUPPORT

Engineering  and  Education  Software  Products

MathSoft  provides  technical  support  to its domestic customers by phone, fax,
mail  and  automated  technical  support via a telephone response system and the
Company's  home  page  on  the  World  Wide  Web.  A  technical support staff of
engineers  located  in  Cambridge  provides  solutions to installation and basic
usage  problems  as  well  as  assistance on advanced technical and mathematical
issues.  The  Company  provides  this  support  free  of  charge  to  individual
end-users  and  offers  a  Premium Support Plan to its corporate customers.  The
Company  currently  provides  technical  support for its Mathcad, StudyWorks and
Axum  product  lines  and  offers  a  variety  of  product  add-ons.

International  customers  who  purchase  product from distributors receive first
line  technical  support  from  their respective local distributor.  A technical
support  staff  of  engineers, located in the Company's United Kingdom sales and
marketing  office,  is  available  to  support  the  distributors.

Data  Analysis  Software  Products

Technical  support for the S-PLUS product line is provided to domestic customers
by  a  staff  of  engineers  located  in  Seattle.  Support is only available to
customers  who  purchase  an  annual  maintenance  and  technical  support plan.

International  customers  who  purchase products from distributors receive first
line  technical  support  from  their respective local distributor.  A technical
support  staff  of  engineers, located in the Company's United Kingdom sales and
marketing  office,  is  available  to  support  the  distributors as well as the
Company's  direct  customers  in  the  United  Kingdom.

FreeScholarships.com

FSC  provides  email and phone support to its registered and prospective members
through  its  own  customer  service  organization.

MANUFACTURING  AND  DISTRIBUTION

The  Company  utilizes several third party vendors to manufacture and distribute
its  products.  This permits the Company to manage peak volumes customary in the
software  industry  and  to  avoid  having  to  maintain  high fixed costs while
experiencing  daily  fluctuations  in  order  and  customer  contacts.

The  Company's  practice is to ship its products promptly upon receipt of orders
from  its  customers  and,  as  a  result,  product  backlog is not significant.


                                        8
<PAGE>
Engineering  and  Education  Software  Products

The  Company  subcontracts with a single independent third party vendor, located
in  Wilmington,  Massachusetts,  to  manufacture  all  of  its  engineering  and
education  software  products  and  fulfill  all  of  its  domestic  orders.

With  the  exception  of  Mathcad  upgrade  orders generated by direct mail, the
Company  processes  all  domestic  orders  from its leased facilities located in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts.  MathSoft  subcontracts the processing of all Mathcad
upgrade  direct  mail  orders  with  an  independent  service company located in
Framingham,  Massachusetts.

All  international  orders  are processed by a third party vendor located in the
United  Kingdom  that  also  provides  warehousing  and  fulfillment  services.

Data  Analysis  Software  Products

The  Company  subcontracts  with  a  third  party  vendor,  located  in  Monroe,
Washington,  to manufacture all of its S-PLUS product line updates.  The Company
warehouses  inventory  and processes and fulfills domestic orders internally out
of  its Seattle office.  All international orders are processed and fulfilled by
third  party vendors located in the United Kingdom that also provide warehousing
and  fulfillment  services.

FreeScholarships.com

When  FSC  launches  its online store, FSC anticipates it will outsource product
fulfillment  to  an outside vendor. FSC does not currently intend to manufacture
products  directly.  The  Company  also  does not currently intend to handle the
distribution  of  the  products  it  will  sell  in  its  store.

PRODUCT  DEVELOPMENT

Engineering  and Education Software Products and Data Analysis Software Products

MathSoft's  software  products  research  and  development organization, divided
between  the  Company's  Cambridge,  Massachusetts  and  Seattle,  Washington
locations,  is  responsible for software development, product documentation, and
quality  assurance.  Their  priorities  are to continue technical innovation for
power  and performance and to respond to market feedback by continuing to design
products  for  ease-of-use.

MathSoft's development team consists of experts in software engineering, quality
assurance,  mathematics, statistics, engineering and documentation.  In software
engineering,  MathSoft's  professional staff has expertise in computer graphics,
compiler  design,  user  interface  design  and  advanced  Windows  and Internet
technologies.

FreeScholarships.com

FreeScholarships.com  has  used  a  combination of its own personnel and outside
contractors  and  consultants  for  site  design,  graphics  design,  content
development  and  editing,  software  development,  quality  assurance, database
administration  and  network  management.  As  FreeScolarships.com  develops, it
intends  to  hire additional employees to handle some or all of these functions.

FSC  out-sources  its  network  operations  to  a hosting service provider, Data
Return Inc. based in Dallas, Texas. This hosting service owns and configures the
hardware,  installs and configures the software, provides Internet bandwidth and
monitors  the  site  and  its  numerous components around the clock on behalf of
FSC.

During the fiscal years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Transition Period,
and  the  fiscal  year  ended  June 30, 1997, net research and development costs
charged  to  operations were $5,360,000, $4,964,000, $2,816,000, and $5,143,000,
respectively.  The  Company  did  not  capitalize  any  software  research  and
development  costs  during the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 as software
research  and  development  costs incurred between technological feasibility and
general  release  were  not  material.


                                        9
<PAGE>
COMPETITION

Engineering  and Education Software Products and Data Analysis Software Products

The  markets  for  engineering and education and data analysis software products
are  highly  competitive.  In  the  engineering  and  education software market,
MathSoft  considers  its  principal  competition  to  include  engineering  and
education  software  from  companies  providing  specialized  tools, such as The
MathWorks,  Waterloo  Maple Software and Wolfram Research.  In the data analysis
market,  the  Company considers its principal competition to include statistical
software  products  from  such  companies as SAS and SPSS.  In both markets, the
Company faces competition from companies providing competing software solutions,
such  as spreadsheets.  The Company may also face new competition from potential
entrants  into the engineering and education and data analysis software markets,
as  well  as  more  focused  competition from companies in related markets.  For
example, providers of spreadsheet programs could add to or improve the technical
calculation and data analysis functionality of their existing products.  Some of
these  companies may have significant name recognition, as well as substantially
greater  capital  resources,  marketing  experience,  research  and  development
staffs,  and  production  facilities  than  the  Company.  Although  the Company
believes  it  has  certain technological advantages over existing competitors in
the  technical  calculation  and the data analysis software markets, maintaining
these  advantages  will  require continued investment by the Company in research
and  development.  There  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  Company  will  have
sufficient resources to make such investment or that the Company will be able to
make  the technological advances necessary to maintain its competitive position.

FreeScholarships.com

The  market  for internet products and services is highly competitive. There are
no  substantial barriers to entry in these markets, and the Company expects that
competition  will  continue  to  intensify.  FreeScholarships.com  competes with
online  services and other Web site operators, some of whom may have significant
name  recognition  as well as substantially greater capital resources, marketing
experience  and  brand  recognition  than  FSC.

INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY  RIGHTS  AND  LICENSES

MathSoft's  software  is proprietary and the Company attempts to protect it with
copyrights,  trade secret laws and internal nondisclosure safeguards, as well as
restrictions  on  copying,  disclosure and transferability that are incorporated
into  its software license agreements. Generally, the Company's products are not
physically  copy-protected. In order to retain exclusive ownership rights to all
software  developed  by MathSoft, the Company licenses all software and provides
it in executable code only, with contractual restrictions on copying, disclosure
and  transferability.  As  is  customary  in the industry, MathSoft licenses its
products to end-users by use of a 'shrink-wrap' license. The source code for all
of  the  Company's  products  is  protected as a trade secret and as unpublished
copyrighted  work.  In  addition, the Company has entered into nondisclosure and
inventions  agreements  with  key  employees. The Company has been granted three
patents and is aggressively pursuing patent protection.  However, in those areas
where  the  Company  has no patent protection, judicial enforcement of copyright
laws  may  be  uncertain.

In  fiscal  1994,  the  Company  was granted a non-exclusive worldwide perpetual
license  to Maple V Symbolic Algebra Software for inclusion in Mathcad and other
products  in  exchange  for  a  fixed  royalty  payment.

The  Company  is  a  worldwide  licensee  until  February  18,  2002  of  Lucent
Technologies  Inc.  for  the  "S"  programming  language. Under the license, the
Company  has  the  right  to  use,  sublicense  and  support the "S" programming
language from Lucent Technologies in exchange for royalties.  Any modifications,
enhancements, adaptations or derivations of the "S" programming language are the
property  of the Company. After February 18, 2002, the Company, at its election,
may  extend  this  license  for five-year terms in perpetuity, provided that the
Company  continues  to  comply  with its obligations under the license. Although
termination  of  this  license  could  have  a  material  adverse  effect on the
Company's operations because Lucent Technologies is the sole licensor of the "S"
programming  language,  the  Company is not presently aware of any circumstances
which  would  prevent  it  from  fulfilling  its  obligations under the license.

Due  to  the  rapid  pace  of technological change in the software industry, the
Company  believes  that  patent,  trade secret and copyright protection are less
significant  to  its  competitive  position  than factors such as the knowledge,
ability  and  experience  of  the  Company's personnel, new product development,
frequent  product  enhancements,  name recognition, and ongoing reliable product
maintenance  and  support.

The  Company  believes  that  its  products  and other proprietary rights do not
infringe  the  proprietary  rights  of third parties. There can be no assurance,
however,  that  third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future.


                                       10
<PAGE>
EMPLOYEES

As  of  December  31,  1999,  the  Company  employed  approximately  197 regular
full-time  and  part-time employees, of which 19 were outside the United States.
As  necessary,  the Company supplements its regular employees with temporary and
contract  personnel.  As  of December 31, 1999, the Company employed 8 temporary
and contract personnel, of which one was outside the United States.  None of the
Company's regular employees are represented by a labor union or are subject to a
collective  bargaining  agreement.  The  Company  has  never  experienced a work
stoppage  and  believes  that  its  employee  relations  are  good.

CAUTIONARY  STATEMENTS

In  addition  to  the other information in this report, the following cautionary
statements  should  be  considered  carefully  in evaluating the Company and its
business.  Information  provided  by  the  Company from time to time may contain
certain  "forward-looking"  information,  as  that  term  is  defined by (i) the
Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform  Act  of  1995  (the  "Act") and (ii) in
releases  made  by  the  Securities  and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").  These
cautionary  statements  are being made pursuant to the provisions of the Act and
with  the intention of obtaining the benefits of the "safe harbor" provisions of
the  Act.

Variability  of  Quarterly Operating Results.  The Company's quarterly operating
results  may  vary significantly from quarter to quarter, depending upon factors
such  as the introduction and market acceptance of new products and new versions
of  existing  products,  the  ability  to  reduce  expenses,  the  activities of
competitors,  and  the  anticipated  losses  incurred  by  FreeScholarships.com.
Because  a high percentage of the Company's expenses are relatively fixed in the
near  term,  minor  variations  in  the timing of orders and shipments can cause
significant  variations  in  quarterly  operating results.  The Company operates
with  little or no backlog and has no long-term contracts.  Substantially all of
its  product  revenues  in  each quarter result from software licenses issued in
that quarter making the Company's ability to accurately forecast future revenues
and  income for any period necessarily limited.  Any forward-looking information
provided from time to time by the Company represents only management's then-best
current  estimate  of  future  results  or trends, and actual results may differ
materially  from  those  contained  in  the  Company's  estimates.

Potential  Volatility  of Stock Price.  There has been significant volatility in
the  market  price  of securities of technology companies.  The Company believes
factors such as announcements of new products by the Company or its competitors,
quarterly  fluctuations  in  the  Company's  financial results or other software
companies'  financial  results,  shortfalls  in  the  Company's actual financial
results  compared to results previously forecasted by stock market analysts, and
general conditions in the software and internet industries and conditions in the
financial  markets could cause the market price of the Common Stock to fluctuate
substantially.  These  market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of the
Company's  Common  Stock.

Risks  Associated  with  Acquisitions.  The  Company  has  made  a  number  of
acquisitions  and  will continue to review future acquisition opportunities.  No
assurances  can  be  given  that  acquisition  candidates  will  continue  to be
available  on  terms  and  conditions  acceptable  to the Company.  Acquisitions
involve  numerous  risks,  including,  among  other things, possible dilution to
existing shareholders, difficulties and expenses incurred in connection with the
acquisitions  and  the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or
products  of  the  acquired  companies,  the difficulty of operating new (albeit
related) businesses, the diversion of management's attention from other business
concerns  and  the  potential loss of key employees of the acquired company.  In
the  event  that  the  operations  of  an  acquired  business  do not live up to
expectations,  the  Company may be required to restructure the acquired business
or  write-off  the  value of some or all of the assets of the acquired business.
There  can  be no assurance that any acquisition will be successfully integrated
into  the  Company's  operations.


                                       11
<PAGE>
Limited  Operating  History  in the Internet Market. Since 1984, the Company has
focused  on  development  of  its core software products, the Mathcad and S-PLUS
product  families.  In  1999,  the  Company  broadened  its  focus  to  include
FreeScholarships.com, an internet venture, and courses related to the use of its
core software product families that are offered through the World Wide Web, such
as  the S-PLUS Knowledge Discovery Series.  Historically, the Company's revenues
have  come  from  licenses  related  to  the  Company's  core  product families.
Although  the Company anticipates that the majority of its revenue will continue
to  come  from licenses related to its core product families, these moves toward
increased  focus  on  the  Internet have required, and will continue to require,
changes  in  personnel  and  business  processes.

The  Company  May  Have  To  Find  Outside  Partners  Or  Sources Of Funding For
Freescholarships.com.  The  Company  may  require  partners  or other sources of
outside  funding  to continue the funding of FreeScholarships.com.  Although the
Company  is  currently  reviewing various funding strategies, the Company has no
agreements in place to assist the Company in funding FreeScholarships.com beyond
September  30,  2000.  There  can be no assurance that any partnering or funding
opportunities  will  be  available  on  terms  and  conditions acceptable to the
Company.

Internet-Related Risks. The Company's online store, its online courses available
through  the  World Wide Web, such as its S-PLUS Knowledge Discovery Series, and
its  wholly-owned subsidiary, FreeScholarships.com, rely on the continued growth
of the Internet.  The Company expects that continued consumer concerns regarding
security,  reliability,  privacy,  ease  of  use,  and  the  changing regulatory
environment  will  affect the development of the Company's products and services
connected  with  the  Internet.

Security.  If  the  Company's  web  site  security  fails,  it  may  damage  the
Company's  ability  to  sell  products  through  its online store or attract and
retain users to FreeScholarships.com.  In addition, the Company may be liable if
security  on  its  web sites is breached and the Company is the victim of credit
card  fraud.

Reliability.  The  Company  uses  an  outside  service  to  maintain  the
FreeScholarships.com  web servers.  If these servers fail for an extended period
of  time,  registered  users of and visitors to FreeScholarships.com may turn to
other  web  sites  and  the  FreeScholarships  brand  may  be  damaged.

Privacy.   Visitors to the Company's online store  and  the FreeScholarships.com
web site are asked for certain personally identifying information, which is then
used to ship products, award scholarships and for marketing and data collection.
No personally identifiable information is sold or conveyed to third parties.  As
attitudes regarding online privacy continue to evolve, there can be no assurance
that the Company's needs for personally identifiable information will be in line
with  public  attitudes  or  government  regulations  regarding  privacy.

Ease  of  Use.  If,  for reasons such as  failure  of the Company's web servers,
slow  modem connections or poor web site design, users of the Company's products
and  services  including  the  online  store,  the  online  courses  or
FreeScholarships.com,  find  it  difficult  to  use  the  Company's products and
services, the Company's revenues could decrease and its brands could be damaged.

Changing  Regulatory  Environment.  Laws  and  regulation regarding the Internet
are  becoming  more  common.  Changes in laws regarding privacy, internet access
taxes  or other areas may require the Company to change the way it does business
over  the  Internet.  For  example,  FreeScholarships.com  aims its services and
products  at  persons  between  the  ages  of  13  and  above.  Currently,  the
Children's  Online  Privacy  Protection  Act,  also  known  as  COPPA,  and  the
regulations  enacted  by the Federal Trade Commission, also known as the FTC, to
enforce  the COPPA, require that the Company not collect personally identifiable
data from children 12 years or younger.  If this law was changed and the minimum
age  level  increased,  it could damage the Company's ability to attract teenage
users  to  the FreeScholarships.com  web site. The laws governing the use of the
Internet  are generally unsettled.  There is no way to predict the ways in which
existing  and  new  laws  will apply to Internet commerce, services or products.


                                       12
<PAGE>
Changes in Local, State or Federal Law Related to the Operation of a Sweepstakes
Could  Adversely  Affect  the  Company's  Ability  to  Continue  the  Current
FreeScholarships.com  Business  Model. FreeScholarships.com currently awards its
scholarships  based  on  a  widely-accepted  sweepstakes  model.  If one or more
localities  or states decide to change its laws related to sweepstakes or online
sweepstakes,  or  if federal laws, including tax laws, are enacted that regulate
sweepstakes or that change the tax laws under which FreeScholarships.com is able
to  award  scholarships,  FreeScholarships.com  may  have to change its business
model.  There  can  be no assurance that any such change in the FreeScholarships
business  model  required  by  changes in local, state or federal laws would not
damage  FreeScholarships.com

Risks  Associated  with Divestitures.  The Company's product offerings presently
may  be  divided between two principal software product families - those related
to  its  Mathcad  line  addressing  the  calculation  needs  of  the  technical,
professional  and  education markets, and those related to its S-PLUS offerings,
marketed  primarily  to  professionals  needing  statistical  analysis tools. In
addition,  the  Company has a new investment in FreeScholarships.com. In setting
strategic  goals  to  maximize  shareholder value, the Company from time to time
considers  the options of divesting itself of one software product family or the
other,  or  product  lines within a given family, to concentrate its focus other
business  opportunities.  If  the  Company were to consummate such a sale, there
can  be no assurance that it would receive returns from such sale that investors
in  the  Company  would  consider  attractive.

Risks  Associated  with  Distribution  Channels.  The  Company  markets  and
distributes  its S-PLUS products in the U.S. through the Company's telesales and
outside  sales  force  and  internationally  through  third  party resellers and
distributors  and  its  own salesforce.  Mathcad products are currently marketed
and  distributed  in  the  U.S.  through third party resellers and distributors,
telesales  and  direct  mail  and  electronic  methods.  Internationally,  the
Company's  Mathcad  products  are  marketed  and distributed through third party
resellers  and distributors.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be
able  to  retain  its  current  resellers  and  distributors,  or  expand  its
distribution  channels  by  entering  into  arrangements  with new resellers and
distributors  in  the  Company's  current  markets  or  in  new  markets.

Risks  Associated  with  International  Operations.  Sales outside North America
accounted  for  approximately  34% of the Company's total revenues in the fiscal
year  ended  June  30,  1997,  approximately 30% of the Company's total revenues
during  the  Transition  Period,  and approximately 28% and 27% of the Company's
total  revenues  in  the  fiscal years ended December 31, 1998 and 1999, and may
continue  to  represent a significant portion of the Company's product revenues.
Any decrease in sales outside North America may have a materially adverse effect
on  the  Company's  operating results.  The Company's international business and
financial  performance  may be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates and by
trade  regulations.

Reliance on Third Party Licensors.  Maple V, a software product licensed with or
as  part  of  Mathcad,  and  certain copyrighted texts licensed from third party
publishers incorporated in the Company's Electronic Books, and the S programming
language,  the  language  on  which all of the StatSci's products are based, are
currently  licensed  from  a single source or limited source suppliers.  If such
licenses  are  discontinued,  there can be no assurance that the Company will be
able  to  independently develop substitutes or to obtain alternative sources or,
if  able  to be developed or obtained as needed in the future, that such efforts
would  not result in delays or reductions in product shipments or cost increases
that could have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated business
operations.


                                       13
<PAGE>
Rapid  Technological  Change;  Competition.  The  technical calculation software
market is subject to rapid and substantial technological change, similar to that
affecting  the  software industry generally.  The Company, to remain successful,
must  be  responsive  to  new  developments  in  hardware  and  chip technology,
operating  systems,  programming  technology, Internet technology and multimedia
capabilities.  In  addition,  the  Company  competes  against  numerous  other
companies,  some  of  which  have  significant  name  recognition,  as  well  as
substantially  greater  capital  resources,  marketing  experience, research and
development  staffs  and  production facilities than the Company.  The Company's
financial  results  may be negatively impacted by the failure of new or existing
products  to  be  favorably  received  by  retailers and consumers due to price,
availability,  features, other product choices or the necessity of promotions to
increase  sales  of  the  Company's  products.

Year  2000 Issues.  The Year 2000 issue exists because many computer systems and
applications  currently  use  two-digit date fields to designate a year.  As the
century date change occurred, date-sensitive systems  may  have  recognized  the
year 2000 as 1900, or not at all.  This inability to recognize or properly treat
the  year  2000  may  have  caused  systems  to  process  critical financial and
operational information incorrectly.  The Company utilizes software  from  third
parties  and  related  technologies throughout its business  that  may have been
affected by the date change in the year 2000.  The Company has  not  experienced
any problems with its  computer  systems  related  to  the year 2000  issue  and
is not aware of any material  year  2000  problems  with its clients or vendors.

Uncertainties  Regarding  Protection  of  Proprietary  Technology; Uncertainties
Regarding  Patents.  The  Company  believes  that  while  the  mathematical
calculations  performed by the Company's software are not proprietary, the speed
and  quality  of  displaying  the  computation and the ease of use are unique to
MathSoft's products.  The Company's success will depend, in part, on its ability
to  protect  the  proprietary  aspects  of  its  products.  The Company seeks to
protect  these  proprietary  aspects  of  its  products  principally  through  a
combination  of  contract  provisions and copyright, patent, trademark and trade
secret  laws.  There  can be no assurance that the steps taken by the Company to
protect  its  proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of
its  technology.  Although the Company believes that its products and technology
do not infringe any existing proprietary rights of others, the use of patents to
protect  software  has  increased  and there may be pending or issued patents of
which the Company is not aware that the Company may need to license or challenge
at  significant  expense.  There can be no assurance that any such license would
be  available  on acceptable terms, if at all, or that the Company would prevail
in  any  such  challenge.

Reliance  on  Attracting  and  Retaining Key Employees.  The Company's continued
success  will  depend  in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly
qualified  technical,  managerial,  sales  and  marketing  and  other personnel.
Competition  for such personnel in the New England and Northwestern areas of the
United  States  is intense.  The Company has non-competition agreements with its
key  management  and  technical  personnel.  There  can be no assurance that the
Company  will  be  able  to  continue  to  attract  or  retain  such  personnel.

Risks  Associated  with  New Products or Services.  The Company's future revenue
growth  rate  and  earnings performance depend on a number of factors, including
the  continued  success  of  its existing products and service offerings and the
development  of one or more new products or services including the Company's new
internet  venture, FreeScholarships.com.  These investments may adversely affect
the  Company's  quarterly and annual financial results until such time that they
begin  to  return  a  profit.  Furthermore, there can be no assurance that these
investments  will  ever  achieve  the  desired  financial  results.


ITEM  2.  PROPERTIES.

The  Company  leases  23,350  square  feet  of  office space at 101 Main Street,
Cambridge,  Massachusetts.  The  Company renewed its lease for the 23,350 square
feet  it  currently occupies on November 30, 1998 and this lease is scheduled to
terminate  in  October 2004.  A third party vendor provides warehousing services
to  meet  the  Company's  needs.  The  Company also leases 26,804 square feet of
office  space  at  1700  Westlake Avenue North, Seattle, Washington.  This lease
expires  in  September 2004. The Company also leases 2,931 square feet of office
space  in  the  United Kingdom.  The term of the lease for this office space was
renewed  in  March  2000  and  is scheduled to expire in March 2005. The Company
entered  into a lease in March 2000 for 8,259 square feet of office space at 275
Wyman  Street, Waltham, Massachusetts in connection with its internet subsidiary
FreeScholarships.com.  The  term of the lease for this office space is scheduled
to  expire  in  February  2004.


                                       14
<PAGE>
The Company believes that its facilities are adequate for its needs. The Company
does  not  consider  the  specific location of its offices to be material to its
business.

ITEM  3.  LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS.

The Company is not involved in any legal proceedings which could have a material
adverse  effect  on  the  Company.

ITEM  4.  SUBMISSION  OF  MATTERS  TO  A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY-HOLDERS.

Not  applicable.


                                       15
<PAGE>
                                     PART II


ITEM  5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.


The  Company's  Common  Stock  (Nasdaq:  MATH) was quoted on the Nasdaq National
Market  beginning  on February 3, 1993.  Prior to that date, there was no public
market  for  the  Common  Stock.  On  July 15, 1997, the Company transferred the
quotations  of  its  Common  Stock to the Nasdaq SmallCap Market.  The following
table  presents  quarterly  information  on the price range of the Common Stock.
This  information  indicates the high and low bid prices for the Common Stock as
reported  by  the  Nasdaq National Market and the Nasdaq SmallCap Market for the
periods  indicated.  These  prices  do  not include retail markups, markdowns or
commissions.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1997:        HIGH      LOW
                                      --------  -------
<S>                                   <C>       <C>
First Quarter                            7 5/8   4  7/8
Second Quarter                           5 3/8   3  1/4
Third Quarter                            5 1/8   2  3/4
Fourth Quarter                           3 5/8   2 3/16

TRANSITION PERIOD:
July 1 to September 30, 1997                 4   2 7/16
October 1 to December 31, 1997           4 5/8    2 3/8

FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998:
First Quarter                                3  2 11/16
Second Quarter                         4 11/32  3 13/32
Third Quarter                            3 7/8  1 27/32
Fourth Quarter                               3  2  1/32

FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999:
First Quarter                          6 31/32   3  1/8
Second Quarter                         4  7/16   2 7/16
Third Quarter                          3 11/32   2  1/4
Fourth Quarter                         6 27/32  1 31/32
</TABLE>

As  of March 23,  2000, the number of stockholders of record of Common Stock was
approximately  210.

The  Company  has never paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock and does not
anticipate  paying  any  cash  dividends in the foreseeable future.  The Company
currently  intends  to retain future earnings to fund the development and growth
of  its  business.


                                       16
<PAGE>
ITEM  6.  SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA.


The  selected  consolidated financial data set forth below has been derived from
the  audited  financial  statements of the Company, except for the twelve months
ended  December  31, 1997 which has been presented for comparison purposes only.
The  information should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and
notes  thereto  set  forth  elsewhere  herein.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      FISCAL     FISCAL   YEAR ENDED
                                  YEAR ENDED  YEAR ENDED    DEC. 31,
                                     DEC. 31,   DEC. 31,    1997       TRANSITION   FISCAL YEARS ENDED JUNE 30,
(in thousands, except per share data)   1999     1998    (UNAUDITED)   PERIOD (1)     1997     1996      1995
- -------------------------------------  -------  -------  ------------  -----------  --------  -------  --------
<S>                                    <C>      <C>      <C>           <C>          <C>       <C>      <C>
Total revenues                         $28,603  $24,447  $    21,224   $    13,024  $17,678   $20,767  $15,883

Gross profit                            23,253   20,201       16,742        10,505   13,732    16,766   11,819

Income (loss)  from operations           1,569    2,161       (2,160)        1,102   (4,394)      933   (3,635)

Net income (loss)                        1,453    2,220       (2,129)        1,105   (4,300)    1,076   (3,553)

Basic net income (loss) per share         0.15     0.24        (0.24)         0.12    (0.49)     0.13    (0.50)

Diluted net income (loss) per share       0.14     0.22        (0.24)         0.11    (0.49)     0.11    (0.50)

Working capital                          7,043    4,439        1,852         1,852      457     4,688      617

Total assets                            16,993   13,492        9,812         9,812    8,786    11,899    8,103

Long-term obligations,                     148      139           74            74      183         3       13
     less current portion

Stockholders equity                      8,634    6,051        3,495         3,495    2,168     6,759    2,624
<FN>
(1)  The Company changed its fiscal year end from June 30 to December 31.  The Transition Period represents the
six  month period  from  July  1,  1997  through  December  31,  1997.
</TABLE>


                                       17
<PAGE>
ITEM  7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF  OPERATIONS.

The  following  discussion  and  analysis should be  read  in  conjunction  with
The  " Selected  Consolidated  Financial  Data ",  the  Consolidated   Financial
Statements  and  the  information   described  in  the  Risk  Factors   included
elsewhere  in  this  report.

RESULTS  OF  OPERATIONS

In  December  1997,  the  Company  changed  its  fiscal year end from June 30 to
December 31.  Accordingly, a six-month transition period ended December 31, 1997
is  included  below.

As  an  aid  to  understanding  the Company's operating results, the table below
indicates  the  percentage relationships of income and expense items included in
the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal year ended December 31,
1999  and  1998  and  the twelve months ended December 31, 1997 (unaudited), the
fiscal  year  ended December 31, 1999 compared to the fiscal year ended June 30,
1997,  the  six months ended December 31, 1997 (the "Transition Period") and the
six  months  ended  December  31,  1996,  the  year  ended June 30, 1997 and the
percentage  changes in those items for the fiscal years ended December 31, 1999,
1998, the twelve months ended December 31, 1997 (unaudited) and  the fiscal year
ended  June  30,  1997.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                     -------------------------Percentage of Total Revenues-----------------------
                                                                                          Six Months
                                       Fiscal       Fiscal     Year Ended                   Ended       Fiscal
                                     Year Ended   Year Ended     Dec 31,                   Dec 31,    Year Ended
                                       Dec 31,      Dec 31,       1997      Transition      1996       June 30,
                                        1999         1998      (unaudited)  Period (1)   (unaudited)     1997
                                     -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
<S>                                  <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Revenues:
  Software licenses                        79.4%        85.2%        85.0%        85.4%        87.2%        85.9%
  Services and other                       20.6%        14.8%        15.0%        14.6%        12.8%        14.1%
                                     -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
      Total revenues                      100.0%       100.0%       100.0%       100.0%       100.0%       100.0%

Cost of Revenues:
  Software licenses                        12.5%        12.1%        16.0%        14.0%        16.7%        17.7%
  Services and other                        6.2%         5.3%         5.1%         5.4%         4.3%         4.6%
                                     -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
     Total cost of revenues                18.7%        17.4%        21.1%        19.3%        20.9%        22.3%

     Gross profit                          81.3%        82.6%        78.9%        80.7%        79.1%        77.7%

Operating Expenses:
  Sales and marketing                      44.8%        42.4%        49.1%        39.7%        52.8%        58.0%

  Research and development, gross          34.7%        31.9%        35.4%        30.0%        36.4%        39.9%
  Less Funded Research                    -16.0%       -11.6%        -9.1%        -8.4%       -11.3%       -10.8%
                                     -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
  Research and development, net            18.7%        20.3%        26.3%        21.6%        25.1%        29.1%

  General and administrative               12.3%        11.1%        13.7%        10.9%        13.1%        15.5%
                                     -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------

     Total operating expenses              75.8%        73.8%        89.1%        72.2%        91.0%       102.5%

     Income (loss) from operations          5.5%         8.8%       -10.2%         8.5%       -11.9%       -24.9%

Interest income (expense), net              0.6%         0.4%         0.4%         0.2%         0.8%         0.8%
                                     -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------

Income (loss) before provision
  for income taxes                          6.1%         9.3%        -9.8%         8.6%       -11.1%       -24.1%

Provision for income taxes                  1.0%         0.1%         0.2%         0.1%         0.2%         0.3%
                                     -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------

Net Income (loss)                           5.1%         9.2%       -10.0%         8.5%       -11.3%       -24.4%
                                     ===========  ===========  ===========  ===========  ===========  ===========

                                   ----------------------Percentage Change--------------------
                                                                        Fiscal      Transition
                                      Fiscal             Fiscal       Year Ended    Period (1)
                                      Year Ended       Year Ended    Dec 31, 1998   compared to
                                      Dec 31, 1999    Dec 31, 1998   compared to    Six Months
                                     compared to      compared to       Fiscal        Ended
                                      Year Ended      Year Ended      Year Ended      Dec 31,
                                      Dec 31, 1998   Dec 31, 1997   June 30, 1997      1996
                                     -------------  -------------  --------------  -----------
<S>                                   <C>           <C>            <C>             <C>
Revenues:
  Software licenses                           8.9%          15.5%           37.3%        34.6%
  Services and other                         63.5%          13.3%           44.4%        56.5%
                                     -------------  -------------  --------------  -----------
      Total revenues                         17.0%          15.2%           38.3%        37.4%

Cost of Revenues:
  Software licenses                          20.3%         -12.8%           -5.1%        15.1%
  Services and other                         39.2%          18.3%           56.0%        73.8%
                                     -------------  -------------  --------------  -----------
     Total cost of revenues                  26.0%          -5.3%            7.6%        27.0%

     Gross profit                            15.1%          20.7%           47.1%        40.2%

Operating Expenses:
  Sales and marketing                        23.5%          -0.5%            1.1%         3.2%

  Research and development, gross            27.4%           3.7%           10.4%        13.3%
  Less Funded Research                       61.3%          46.3%           47.8%         1.9%
                                     -------------  -------------  --------------  -----------
  Research and development, net               8.0%         -11.1%           -3.5%        18.4%

  General and administrative                 30.0%          -6.7%           -0.7%        14.3%
                                     -------------  -------------  --------------  -----------

     Total operating expenses                20.2%          -4.6%           -0.5%         9.0%

     Income (loss) from operations          -27.4%         200.0%         -149.2%       197.4%

Interest income (expense), net               96.3%           3.8%          -40.9%       -73.8%
                                     -------------  -------------  --------------  -----------

Income (loss) before provision
  for income taxes                          -22.8%         207.7%         -152.7%       206.9%

Provision for income taxes                 1104.3%         -51.1%          -48.5%        20.0%
                                     -------------  -------------  --------------  -----------

Net Income (loss)                           -34.5%         204.2%          151.6%       203.7%
                                     =============  ==============  =============  ==============
<FN>
(1)  The  Company  changed  its  fiscal  year  from  June  30  to  December  31.
     The Transition Period represents the six month period from  July  1, 1997 -
     December  31,  1997.
</TABLE>


                                       18
<PAGE>
Twelve  Months  Ended  December  31,  1999  Compared  to the Twelve Months Ended
December  31,  1998

Total  revenues  increased  17.0% , from $24,447,000 for the twelve months ended
December  31, 1998 to $28,603,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999.
The  increase  in  total  revenues  was  primarily attributable to worldwide new
license  and  service revenue generated by the Company's S-PLUS product line, as
well as new license and upgrade revenue generated from the Mathcad product line.

Worldwide  S-PLUS  license  and service revenue increased 38.1%, from $8,841,000
for  the  twelve  months  ended  December 31, 1998 to $12,212,000 for the twelve
months  ended December 31, 1999, and increased as a percentage of total revenues
from  36.2% to 42.7%, respectively.  The increase in S-PLUS product line revenue
was  primarily  attributable  to an increase in service revenues, which includes
maintenance, training, and consulting. S-PLUS license revenue was $5,165,000 and
$6,505,000  for  the  twelve  months  ended  1998 and 1999, respectively. S-PLUS
service  revenue  was $3,676,000 and $5,707,000 for the twelve months ended 1998
and  1999,  respectively.  The increase in both service and license revenues was
directly  attributable to the June 1999 release of S-PLUS 2000 as well as to the
product  line's  stability,  quality,  maturing  sales  and  marketing  model.

Worldwide Mathcad product line revenues increased 5.0%, from $15,606,000 for the
twelve months ended December 31, 1998 to $16,391,000 for the twelve months ended
December 31, 1999, but decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 63.8% to
57.3% for the twelve months ended December 31, 1998 and 1999, respectively.  The
increase  in  Mathcad  product  line revenue was due primarily to the release of
StudyWorks  3  (released  in  April  1999)  and  Mathcad  Add-ons such as Axum 6
(released  in  March  1999).  These  increases  were  offset  significantly by a
decrease  in  upgrades as the company changed its method of distribution from an
indirect  model  to  a  direct  model.

Total  international  revenues,  attributable  to  all  product lines, increased
11.9%,  from  $6,897,000  in  1998  to  $7,716,000  in  1999, and decreased as a
percentage  of  total  revenues  from  28.2%  to  26.7%,  respectively.

Total  cost  of  revenues increased 26.0%, from $4,246,000 for the twelve months
ended  December  31, 1998 to $5,351,000 for the twelve months ended December 31,
1999,  and  increased  as  a  percentage  of total revenues from 17.4% to 18.7%,
respectively.  The  increase  in total cost of revenues as a percentage of total
revenues  was  primarily attributable to a product mix shift toward lower margin
products,  namely  the  SPLUS  product  line  due  to  its service component and
StudyWorks.

Sales  and  marketing  expenses  increased  23.5%,  from  $10,364,000  for  the
twelve-months ended December 31, 1998 to $12,797,000 for the twelve months ended
December 31, 1999, and increased as a percentage of total revenues from 42.4% to
44.8%,  respectively.  The  increase  in  sales  and  marketing  expenses  was
attributable  to  an  increase  in variable marketing expenditures and headcount
additions to the marketing department and sales force. Recruiting and consulting
fees  associated  with FreeScholarships.com also contributed to higher expenses.
FreeScholarships.com  sales  and  marketing expenses totaled $1,095,000 in 1999.

Net  research  and  development expenses increased 8.0%, from $4,964,000 for the
twelve  months ended December 31, 1998 to $5,360,000 for the twelve months ended
December 31, 1999, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 20.3% to
18.7%,  respectively.  The  overall  increase  in  net  research and development
expenses  was  primarily  attributable  to  FreeScholarships.com  and  increased
investments in the Mathcad and S-Plus product lines, and offset partially by the
increase  in research funding. Funded research increased 61.3%,  from $2,831,000
for  the  twelve  months  ended  December  31, 1998 to $4,567,000 for the twelve
months  ended December 31, 1999. The increase in funded research is attributable
to  an  increase  in  awarded contracts and the related increase in personnel to
fulfill  those contracts. The Company's Data Analysis Products Division research
department's headcount increased from 32 to 46 as of December 31, 1998 and 1999,
respectively.  FreeScholarships.com  research  and  development expenses totaled
$521,000  in  1999.


                                       19
<PAGE>
General  and  administrative  expenses  increased 30.0%, from $2,713,000 for the
twelve  months ended December 31, 1998 to $3,526,000 for the twelve months ended
December 31, 1999, and increased as a percentage of total revenues from 11.1% to
12.3%, respectively. The increase in overall general and administrative expenses
was primarily attributable to increased compensation costs, legal and consulting
fees  associated  with  Freescholarships.com,  higher  facilities  costs,  and
increases  in  other  miscellaneous  expenses.  FreeScholarships.com general and
administrative  expenses  totaled  $280,000  in  1999.

Net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 was $1,453,000 compared
to  $2,220,000  for the twelve months ended December 31, 1998.  Fiscal Year 1999
reflected solid profit growth in the Company's core products partially offset by
the  significant  investment  in  the  Company's  new  internet  venture,
FreeScholarships.com's  net  loss  totaled  $1,842,000  in  1999.

Twelve  Months  Ended  December  31,  1998  Compared  to the Twelve Months Ended
December  31,  1997  (unaudited)

Total  revenues  increased  15.2% , from $21,224,000 for the twelve months ended
December  31, 1997 to $24,447,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 1998.
The  increase  in  total  revenues  was  primarily attributable to worldwide new
license  and upgrade revenue generated by the Company's Mathcad product line, as
well  as new license and service revenue generated from the S-PLUS product line.

Worldwide Mathcad product line revenues increased 11.9%, from $13,947,000 in the
twelve months ended December 31, 1997 to $15,606,000 for the twelve months ended
December 31, 1998, but decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 65.7% to
63.8% for the twelve months ended December 31, 1997 and 1998, respectively.  The
increase  in  Mathcad  product  line revenue was due primarily to the release of
Mathcad  8  (released  in September 1998) and Mathcad 7 (released in June 1997).
To  a  lesser extent, this increase was also due to the release of StudyWorks II
in  March  1998.  Worldwide  S-PLUS license and service revenue increased 21.5%,
from  $7,277,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 1997 to $8,841,000 for
the  twelve  months  ended  December  31, 1998, and increased as a percentage of
total  revenues  from  34.3%  to  36.2%,  respectively.  The  increase in S-PLUS
product  line  revenue  was  primarily attributable to the release of S-PLUS 4.5
(released  in  May  1998)  and  S-PLUS  4.0  (released  in  September  1997).

Total  international revenues, attributable to all product lines, increased 3.2%
from  $6,682,000 in 1997 to $6,897,000 in 1998, and decreased as a percentage of
total  revenues  from  31.5%  to  28.2%,  respectively.

Total  cost  of  revenues  decreased 5.3%, from $4,482,000 for the twelve months
ended  December  31, 1997 to $4,246,000 for the twelve months ended December 31,
1998,  and  decreased  as  a  percentage  of total revenues from 21.1% to 17.4%,
respectively.  The  decrease  in total cost of revenues as a percentage of total
revenues  was primarily attributable to switching from disk to CD media with the
release  of Mathcad 7 for Windows, thereby decreasing direct material costs on a
per  unit  basis.

Sales  and marketing expenses for the twelve months ended December 31, 1997 were
$10,413,000  and  remained  relatively consistent as compared to $10,364,000 for
the  fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, and decreased as a percentage of total
revenues  from  49.1%  to  42.4%,  respectively.

Net  research  and development expenses decreased 11.1%, from $5,581,000 for the
twelve  months  ended  December  31, 1997 to $4,964,000 during the twelve months
ended  December  31,  1998, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from
26.3%  to  20.3%,  respectively.  The  decrease  in net research and development
expenses was primarily attributable to a decrease in consulting costs associated
with  development  initiatives  in the Company's Data Analysis Products Division
and  offset  partially  by  an  increase  in  research  funding. Funded research
increased  46.3%,  from $1,935,000 for the twelve months ended December 31, 1997
to  $2,831,000  for  the  twelve months ended December 31, 1998. The increase in
funded  research  is  attributable  to  an increase in awarded contracts and the
related  increase  in  personnel  to fulfill those contracts. The Company's Data
Analysis  Products Division research department's headcount increased from 24 to
32  as  of  December  31,  1997  and  1998,  respectively.


                                       20
<PAGE>
General  and  administrative  expenses  decreased  6.7%, from $2,909,000 for the
twelve  months  ended  December  31, 1997 to $2,713,000 during the twelve months
ended  December  31,  1998, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from
13.7%  to  11.1%,  respectively.  The  decrease  in  overall  general  and
administrative  expenses  was  primarily  attributable  to  decreases in foreign
currency  transaction  losses.

Net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 1998 was $2,220,000 compared
to  a  net  loss  of  $2,129,000  for the twelve months ended December 31, 1997.
Improved  performance  from  the  recently  refreshed Mathcad and S-PLUS product
lines,  coupled  with  margin  improvements  and management control of operating
expenses  contributed  to  this  improvement  in  profit.

Twelve  Months  Ended December 31, 1998 Compared to Twelve Months Ended June 30,
1997

Total  revenues  increased  38.3%,  from $17,678,000 for the twelve months ended
June  30,  1997  to  $24,447,000  for the twelve months ended December 31, 1998.
This  increase  in  total  revenues  was primarily attributable to worldwide new
license and upgrade revenue generated by the Mathcad product line as well as new
license  and  service  revenue  generated  from  the  S-PLUS  product  line.

Worldwide  Mathcad  product  line sales increased 31.7%, from $11,850,000 in the
twelve  months ended June 30, 1997 to $15,606,000 during the twelve months ended
December 31, 1998, but decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 67.0% to
63.8%,  respectively.  The  twelve  months ended December 31, 1998 had increased
revenue  associated  with  Mathcad  8 (released in September 1998) and Mathcad 7
(released in June 1997).  Worldwide S-PLUS product line revenue increased 51.7%,
from  $5,828,000  in  the twelve months ended June 30, 1997 to $8,841,000 during
the  twelve  months  ended  December  31, 1998, and increased as a percentage of
total  revenues  from  33.0%  to  36.2%,  respectively.  S-PLUS product line had
increased  license  and  services  revenue in the fiscal year ended December 31,
1998  due  to  the  release  of S-PLUS 4.5 (released in May 1998) and S-PLUS 4.0
(released  in  September  1997).

Total international revenues, attributable to all product lines, increased 14.6%
,  from  $6,017,000 in 1997 to $6,897,000 in 1998, and decreased as a percentage
of  total  revenues  from  34.0%  to  28.2%,  respectively.

Total  cost  of  revenues  increased 7.6%, from $3,946,000 for the twelve months
ended  June  30,  1997  to  $4,246,000 during the fiscal year ended December 31,
1998,  and  decreased  as  a  percentage  of total revenues from 22.3% to 17.4%,
respectively.  The  decrease  in total cost of revenues as a percentage of total
revenues  was primarily attributable to switching from disk to CD media with the
release  of Mathcad 7 for Windows, thereby decreasing direct material costs on a
per  unit  basis.

Sales  and  marketing  expenses  for  the twelve-months ended June 30, 1997 were
$10,251,000  and  remained relatively consistent compared to $10,364,000 for the
fiscal  year  ended  December  31,  1998, but decreased as a percentage of total
revenues  from  58.0%  to  42.4%,  respectively.

Net  research  and  development expenses decreased 3.5%, from $5,143,000 for the
twelve  months  ended  June  30, 1997 to $4,964,000 during the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1998, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 29.1% to
20.3%.  The  decrease  in  net  research  and development expenses was primarily
attributable  to  a  decrease  in  consulting  costs associated with development
initiatives  in the Company's Data Analysis Products Division and an increase in
funded research. Funded research increased 47.8%, from $1,915,000 for the twelve
months  ended  June  30, 1997 to $2,831,000 for the twelve months ended December
31,  1998.  The  increase  in  funded research is attributable to an increase in
awarded  contracts  and  the  related  increase  in  personnel  to fulfill those
contracts.  The  Company's Data Analysis Products Division research department's
headcount  increased  from  23  to 32 as of June 30, 1997 and December 31, 1998,
respectively.


                                       21
<PAGE>
General and administrative expenses for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1997 were
$2,732,000  and remained consistent at $2,713,000 during the twelve months ended
December 31, 1998, and decreased as a percentage of total revenues from 15.5% to
11.1%,  respectively.  The  consistency  in  expenditures  and  reduction  as  a
percentage  of  total  revenues  was due to management efforts to control costs.

Net  income  for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 was $2,220,000 compared
to  net  loss of $4,300,000 for the twelve months ended June 30, 1997.  Improved
performance from the recently refreshed Mathcad and S-PLUS product lines coupled
with  margin  improvements  contributed  to  this  increase  in  profit.

Transition Period Ended December 31, 1997 Compared to the Six-Month Period Ended
December  31,  1996  (unaudited)

Total  revenues  increased  37.4%,  from  $9,478,000  for  the  six months ended
December 31, 1996 to $13,024,000 during the Transition Period.  This increase in
total  revenues  was  primarily attributable to upgrade revenue generated by the
release  of  Mathcad  7  for Windows in June 1997, new license revenue generated
from  S-PLUS  4.0  released  in  September  1997, and to a lesser extent, S-PLUS
service  revenue.

Mathcad  for Windows generated upgrade revenue of $680,000 during the six months
ended  December  31,  1996  compared to upgrade revenue of $2,677,000 during the
Transition  Period,  an  increase as a percentage of total revenues from 7.2% to
20.6%,  respectively.  Prior  to  the  release  of Mathcad 7 for Windows in June
1997,  the  Company's  last  significant  upgrade,  Mathcad 6.0 for Windows, was
released  approximately  twenty-three  months earlier in July 1995 and therefore
upgrade  revenue  was  much  lower  in  the  six months ended December 31, 1996.
Worldwide  S-PLUS  product  line revenue increased 39.4% from $2,531,000 for the
six  months  ended December 31, 1996 to $3,529,000 during the Transition Period,
and  increased  as  a  percentage  of  total  revenues  from  26.7%  to  27.1%,
respectively.   Worldwide  S-PLUS service revenue increased 167.7% from $269,000
in  the  six  months  ended  December 31, 1996 to $720,000 during the Transition
Period,  and  increased  as  a  percentage  of total revenues from 2.8% to 5.5%,
respectively.  Total  international revenues, attributable to all product lines,
increased  20.9%  from  $3,182,000  in  1996 to $3,846,000 during the Transition
Period,  and  decreased  as  a percentage of total revenues from 33.6% to 29.5%,
respectively.

Total cost of revenues for the six-month period increased 27.0%, from $1,983,000
for  the  six months ended December 31, 1996 to $2,519,000 during the Transition
Period,  and  decreased  as  a percentage of total revenues from 20.9% to 19.3%,
respectively.  The  decrease  in total cost of revenues as a percentage of total
revenues  was primarily attributable to switching from disk to CD media with the
release  of Mathcad 7 for Windows, thereby decreasing direct material costs on a
per  unit  basis.  To  a lesser degree, fixed costs, such as licensing costs for
the  "S"  language  used  in  the  S-PLUS  product  line and the amortization of
purchased  technology,  decreased  as  a  percentage of total revenues due to an
overall  higher  revenue base during the Transition Period.  Such decreases were
partially  offset  by an increase in the inventory provision to adequately cover
excess  inventory exposure and an increase in cost of services from $404,000 for
the  six months ended December 31, 1996 to $702,000 during the Transition Period
consistent  with  the  increase  in  service  revenue.

Sales  and marketing expenses increased 3.2%, from $5,007,000 for the six months
ended  December  31,  1996  to  $5,169,000  during  the  Transition  Period, and
decreased  as  a percentage of total revenues from 52.8% to 39.7%, respectively.
The  increase  in  sales  and  marketing  expenses was primarily attributable to
expenses incurred related to the launch of Mathcad 7 for Windows and S-PLUS 4.0,
as  well  as  an  increase in S-PLUS domestic sales expenses incurred to support
direct  sales  of  this  expanding  product  line.


                                       22
<PAGE>
Net  research and development expenses increased 18.4%,  from $2,378,000 for the
six  months  ended December 31, 1996 to $2,816,000 during the Transition Period,
and  decreased  as  a  percentage  of  total  revenues from 25.1% to 21.6%.  The
increase  in  overall  net  research  and  development  expenses  was  primarily
attributable  to  expenses  related  to development initiatives in the Company's
Data  Analysis  Products  Division  and  additional  personnel  to  support such
initiatives,  as  well as an increase in international product translation costs
for Mathcad 7 French, German and Japanese. Funded research in the Company's Data
Analysis  Products  Division  increased 1.9%, from $1,070,000 for the six months
ended  December  31,  1996  to $1,090,000  for the six months ended December 31,
1997.  The increase in funded research is attributable to an increase in awarded
contracts  and the related increase in personnel to fulfill those contracts. The
Company's  Data  Analysis  Products  Division  research  department's  headcount
increased  from  20  to  24  as  of  December  31,  1996  and December 31, 1997,
respectively.

General  and  administrative  expenses increased 14.3% , from $1,241,000 for the
six  months  ended  December 31, 1996 to $1,418,000 during the Transition Period
and  decreased  as  a  percentage  of  total  revenues  from  13.1%  to  10.9%,
respectively.  The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily
attributable  to costs incurred for management incentive compensation provisions
based  primarily  on  the  achievement of profitability targets, and to a lesser
extent,  to  fluctuations  in  international  exchange  rate  transactions.

Net  income  for  the  Transition  Period was $1,105,000 compared to net loss of
$1,066,000  for  the  six  months ended December 31, 1996.  Improved performance
from  the  refreshed  Mathcad  and  S-PLUS  product  lines  coupled  with margin
improvements  all  contributed  to  this  improvement  in  profit.

Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources

Cash  and  cash equivalents, totaling $8,444,000 at December 31, 1999, increased
$2,737,000  during  the  fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, from $5,707,000 at
December 31, 1998.  The positive cash flow resulted primarily from cash provided
by  operating  activities  of $2,808,000 and proceeds from the exercise of stock
options  of $1,134,000 which were offset by purchases of property, equipment and
other  assets  of  $968,000.

The  Company  generated  $2,808,000 in cash from operating activities during the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1999.  The cash generated by operating activities
was  primarily  attributable to net income of approximately $1,453,000, non-cash
depreciation  and  amortization  charges,  and  an increase in deferred revenue,
offset  by an increase in accounts receivable.  Accounts receivable and deferred
revenue  increased  primarily  due to the growth in the Company's business.  The
Company  used  $968,000 in investing activities primarily due to the purchase of
$835,000  of  property  and  equipment.  Proceeds  generated  from capital lease
obligations  and  equipment  financing  and  the  exercise  of  stock options of
$467,000  and $1,134,000, respectively, were offset by payments on capital lease
obligations  and  equipment  financing  of  $699,000.

The Company's financial reserves are represented by cash and cash equivalents as
of  December  31,  1999.  The  Company  has  a  line  of credit agreement with a
commercial  bank.  Borrowings under the line are limited to the lesser of 80% of
eligible  domestic  accounts  or  $2,000,000  based  on  certain  profitability
covenants.  Borrowings  are secured by substantially all of the Company's assets
and  bear  interest  at  the  bank's  prime  rate plus 0.5%.  The line of credit
contains  certain  restrictive  covenants,  including  minimum  amounts  of
profitability,  equity, leverage and liquidity, all as defined in the agreement.
There  were  no amounts outstanding under this line at December 31, 1999.   This
line  expires  on  April  30,  2000.

As  of  December  31,  1999  the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of
$15.0 million and research and development credit carryforwards of $1.3 million.
The  net  operating  loss  and credit carryforwards will expire at various dates
through  2013,  if  not used. Under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code,
substantial  changes  in  the  Company's  ownership  may limit the amount of net
operating  loss  carryforwards  that could be utilized annually in the future to
offset  taxable  income.  A full valuation allowance has been established in our
financial  statements to reflect the uncertainty of the Company's ability to use
available  tax  loss  carryforwards  and  other  deferred  tax  assets.


                                       23
<PAGE>
Based  on  its planned investments in FreeScholarships.com, the Company believes
its  financial  reserves  and  cash  flows  from  future  operations  may not be
sufficient  to  meet  its  liquidity  requirements  for at least the next twelve
months.  Therefore,  the Company anticipates one or more financing transactions,
including  asset sales, bank borrowings, and sale of stock in either or both  of
the  Company  and  its subsidiaries. However, if such financing is not available
the Company has the ability to reduce its planned investment in FSC to ensure it
meets  its  liquidity  requirements  for  the  next twelve months. The foregoing
statement is forward-looking and involves risks and uncertainties, many of which
are  outside  the  Company's control. The Company's actual experience may differ
materially from that discussed above. Factors that might cause such a difference
include,  but  are not limited to, those discussed in "Cautionary Statements" in
this  Form  10-K  for  the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999 as well as future
events  that  have the effect of reducing the Company's available cash balances,
such  as  unanticipated  operating  losses  or  capital  expenditures,  cash
expenditures  related  to  possible  future  acquisitions,  or investment in new
products  or  services.  The  Company  may  be  presented from time to time with
acquisition  opportunities  that  require additional external financing, and the
Company  may  from  time  to time seek to obtain additional funds from public or
private  issuance of equity  or debt securities.  There can be no assurance that
any  such  financing  will  be  available  at  all  or on terms favorable to the
Company.

Recent  Accounting  Pronouncements

In  June  1999,  Financial  Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No.
137, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging  Activities-Deferral  of
the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 133, which defers the effective date of
SFAS No. 133 to all fiscal quarters of all fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2000. SFAS No. 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,
issued  in  June  1998,  establishes  accounting  and  reporting  standards  for
derivative  instruments,  including  certain  derivative instruments embedded in
other  contracts, and hedging activities. It requires an entity to recognize all
derivatives  as  either  assets  or  liabilities  in  the statement of financial
position  and  measure  those  instruments  at  fair value. The Company does not
expect  adoption  of  this  statement  to  have  a  significant  impact  on  its
consolidated  position  or  operating  results.

In  December  1998, the AICPA issued Statement of Position 98-9, Modification of
SOP  97-2 Software Revenue Recognition With Respect to Certain Transactions. SOP
98-9  requires  use  of  the  residual  method  of  recognition of revenues when
vendor-specific  objective evidence exists for undelivered elements but does not
exist  for  delivered  elements  of  a software arrangement. The Company will be
required to comply with the provisions of SOP 98-9 for transactions entered into
beginning  January  1,  2000.  The  Company does not expect adoption of SOP 98-9
will  have  a  material  impact  on its financial position or operating results.

In  December  1999,  the  Securities  and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, as amended by SAB 101(a), Revenue Recognition
in Financial Statements.  SAB  No.  101  is  effective  for the  second  quarter
of all fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 1999.  Adoption  of  SAB  No.
101  is  not  expected  to have a material impact on the Company's  consolidated
financial  position  or  results  of  operations.

                                       24
<PAGE>
ITEM  7A.  QUANTITATIVE  AND  QUALITATIVE  DISCLOSURES  ABOUT  MARKET  RISK

     The  Company  develops  products  in  the  United  States  and  sells  them
worldwide.  As  a  result,  the Company's financial results could be affected by
factors  such  as  changes  in  foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic
conditions in foreign markets. Since the Company's sales are currently priced in
U.S.  dollars and translated into local currency amounts, a strengthening of the
dollar could make the Company's products less competitive in foreign markets.The
Company  operates  a  subsidiary  in  the  United  Kingdom which incurs expenses
denominated  in  its  local  currency.  However, the Company believes that these
operating  expenses  will  not  have a material adverse effect on its results of
operations.  Interest income and expense are sensitive to changes in the general
level  of  U.S. interest rates, particularly since the company's investments are
in  short-term  instruments  and the Company's available line of credit requires
interest  payments calculated at variable rates. Based on the nature and current
levels  of  the  Company's  investments  and debt, however, the Company believes
that  there  is  no  material  market  risk  or  exposure.

              The  Company's  general  investing  policy is to limit the risk of
principal  loss  and  ensure the safety of invested funds by limiting credit and
market risk. The Company currently places its investments in highly liquid money
market  accounts  and short-term investments. All highly liquid investments with
original  maturities  of  three  months  or  less  are  considered  to  be  cash
equivalents.

ITEM  8.     FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA.

See  Item 14 and the Index therein for a listing of the financial statements and
supplementary  data  as  part  of  this  Report.

ITEM  9.     CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
             FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE.

Not  applicable.


                                       25
<PAGE>
                                    PART III

ITEM  10.  DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS

Information  with  respect  to  this  item  may  be  found  under  the  caption
"Occupations  of  Directors  and  Executive Officers" appearing in the Company's
definitive  proxy  statement  to  be  filed  with  the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission  not  later  than  120  days after the close of the fiscal year ended
December  31,  1999.  Such  information  is  incorporated  here  by  reference.

ITEM  11.  EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION

Information  with  respect  to  this  item  may  be  found  under  the  caption
"Compensation and Other Information Concerning Directors and Officers" appearing
in  the Company's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year
ended  December  31,  1999.  Such information is incorporated here by reference.

ITEM  12.  SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF  CERTAIN  BENEFICIAL  OWNERS  AND  MANAGEMENT

Information with respect to this item may be found under the caption "Management
and  Principal  Holders  of  Voting  Securities"  appearing  in  the  Company's
definitive  proxy  statement  to  be  filed  with  the  Securities  and Exchange
Commission  not  later  than  120  days after the close of the fiscal year ended
December  31,  1999.  Such  information  is  incorporated  here  by  reference.

ITEM  13.  CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS

Information  with  respect  to this item may be found under the caption "Certain
Relationships  and  Related  Transactions" appearing in the Company's definitive
proxy  statement  to  be  filed  with the Securities and Exchange Commission not
later  than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999.
Such  information  is  incorporated  here  by  reference.


                                       26
<PAGE>
                                     PART IV


ITEM  14.  EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL  STATEMENT  SCHEDULES,  AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a)     The  following  documents  are  filed  as  a  part  of this report:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
   1.  Financial Statements.  The following consolidated financial statements of the Company and Independent
       --------------------
       Auditors Report are filed as part of this report.

<C>    <S>
       Report of Independent Public Accountants

       Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998

       Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, the year
       ended December 31, 1997 (unaudited), the six-month period ended December 31, 1997 and
       for the year ended June 30, 1997

       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the year ended June 30, 1997, the
        six-month period ended December 31, 1997 and for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1999

       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998,
       the year ended December 31, 1997 (unaudited), the six-month period ended December 31, 1997 and for the year
       ended June 30, 1997

       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


   2.  Exhibits.
       ---------

  2.1  Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1993 among the Registrant, Statistical Sciences, Inc., a
       Washington corporation, and the Stockholders listed on Schedule I thereto (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the
       Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 30, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference).

  3.1  Third Restated Articles of Organization of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Registration Statement
       number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

  3.2  Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Annual Report on Form 10-K
       for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).

  4.1  Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registration Statement
       number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

  4.2  Please refer to Article VI of Exhibit 3.1.

 10.1  Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registration Statement number 33-
       55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.2  Form of Key Officer Stock Option Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Registration Statement number
       33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.3  1992 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Registration Statement number 33-55658
       on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.4  1992 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Registration Statement
       number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).


                                       27
<PAGE>
 10.5  Third Party Software Distribution Agreement, dated January 30, 1989, as amended, between the
       Company, University of Waterloo, Waterloo Maple Software, Inc. et al. (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to
       Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.6  Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 18, 1987, between the Company and Micro D, Inc., a
       predecessor to Ingram Micro, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.10 to Registration Statement number 33-55658
       on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.7  Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint Venture and MathSoft, Inc., dated as of August 17, 1993
       (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993, file
       number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.8  Lease Agreement with the Bartell Drug Co. (Landlord), dated as of June 22, 1990, together with
       Addendum Nos. A, B, C & D of even date and as amended by Addendum No. E dated December 9,
       1992 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993,
       file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.9  Software License Agreement with American Telephone & Telegraph Company, effective as of April 1,
       1991, as amended February 18, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
       fiscal year ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10.10  Distributor Agreement with Mathematical Systems Institute, Inc., dated August 24, 1990 (filed as
       Exhibit 10.14 to Annual Report of Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-
       020992, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.11  Distributorship Agreement dated as of March 1, 1994 between the Company and 766884 Ontario Inc.,
       carrying on business as Waterloo Maple Software (filed as Exhibit 10.15 to Quarterly Report on Form
       10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1994, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by
       reference).*

10.12  Perpetual Technology License dated as of March 1, 1994, as amended by Addendum No. 1 thereto dated
       as of March 25, 1994, between the Company and 766884 Ontario Inc., carrying on business as Waterloo
       Maple Software (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
       March 31, 1994, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10.13  Line of Credit Agreement, dated January 11, 1996, between the Company and Fleet Bank of
       Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
       March 31, 1996, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.14  Software License Agreement, dated February 18, 1996, between the Company and Lucent Technologies
       Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31,
       1996, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10.15  Amendment to Software License Agreement, dated September 25, 1997, between the Company and
       Lucent Technologies Inc.*

10.16  Executive Agreement, dated as of July 28, 1997, between the Company and Charles J. Digate (filed as
       Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 1997, file
       number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).#

10.17  Option Acceleration Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1997, between the Company and Robert P.
       Orlando (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
       September 30, 1997, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).#

10.18  Amended and Restated Executive Agreement dated as of November 23, 1998, between the Company and
       Charles J. Digate.  (Filed as Exhibit 10.23 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
       ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.19  Amendments to Agreement of Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint Venture and MathSoft, Inc.,
       dated as of October 23, 1998 and November 30, 1998, respectively.

10.20  Amended Line of Credit Agreement dated February 24, 1999, between the Company and Fleet Bank of
       Massachusetts.

10.21  Option Acceleration Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1997, between the Company and James C. Randles.

10.22  Option Acceleration Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1997, between the Company and Shawn David.


                                       28
<PAGE>
 21.1  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

 23.1  Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP

 27.1  Financial Data Schedule
<FN>
    *  Confidential treatment as to portions of the filed exhibit was previously granted.
    #  Management contract or compensatory arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K
</TABLE>

(b)     Reports  on  Form  8-K

        The  Company  filed  a  Current  Report  on Form 8-K dated October
        21, 1999 reporting  fiscal  third  quarter  results.

        The  Company  filed  a  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated November
        29, 1999 reporting  information  regarding FreeScholarships.com.


                                       29
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its  behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.

                               MATHSOFT,  INC.


March 30, 2000                 By: /s/ Charles J. Digate
                               --------------------------
                               Charles J. Digate
                               Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant  to  the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by  the  following  persons  on  behalf of the
registrant  and  in  the  capacities  and  on  the  dates  indicated.


March 30, 2000                 /s/ David D. Martin
                               --------------------
                               David D. Martin


March 30, 2000                 /s/ Robert P. Orlando
                               ---------------------
                               Robert P. Orlando
                               Senior Vice President Finance and Administration,
                               Chief Financial Officer,
                               Treasurer and Clerk
                               (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
                               Director

March 30, 2000                 /s/ Walter M. Pile, Jr.
                               -----------------------
                               Walter M. Pile, Jr.
                               Director


March 30, 2000                 /s/ June L. Rokoff
                               -----------------------
                               June L. Rokoff
                               Director


                                       30
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT NO.  DESCRIPTION

<S>          <C>
2.1          Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 30, 1993 among the Registrant, Statistical
             Sciences, Inc., a Washington corporation, and the Stockholders listed on Schedule I thereto
             (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 30, 1993 and
             incorporated herein by reference).

3.1          Third Restated Articles of Organization of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Registration
             Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

3.2          Amended and Restated By-laws of the Company (filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Annual Report on
             Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1994, file number 0-020992, and incorporated
             herein by reference).

4.1          Specimen certificate representing the Common Stock (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Registration
             Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

4.2          Please refer to Article VI of Exhibit 3.1.

10.1         Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registration Statement
             number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.2         Form of Key Officer Stock Option Agreement (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Registration Statement
             number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.3         1992 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Registration Statement number
             33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.4         1992 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Registration
             Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.5         Third Party Software Distribution Agreement, dated January 30, 1989, as amended, between
             the Company, University of Waterloo, Waterloo Maple Software, Inc. et al. (filed as Exhibit
             10.7 to Registration Statement number 33-55658 on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by
             reference).

10.6         Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 18, 1987, between the Company and Micro D, Inc., a
             predecessor to Ingram Micro, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.10 to Registration Statement number 33-55658
             on Form S-1 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.7         Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint Venture and MathSoft, Inc., dated as of August 17,
             1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30,
             1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.8         Lease Agreement with the Bartell Drug Co. (Landlord), dated as of June 22, 1990, together
             with Addendum Nos. A, B, C & D of even date and as amended by Addendum No. E dated
             December 9, 1992 (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
             ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.9         Software License Agreement with American Telephone & Telegraph Company, effective as of
             April 1, 1991, as amended February 18, 1993 (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to Annual Report on
             Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993, file number 0-020992, and incorporated
             herein by reference).*

10.10        Distributor Agreement with Mathematical Systems Institute, Inc., dated August 24, 1990 (filed
             as Exhibit 10.14 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1993, file
             number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).


                                       31
<PAGE>
EXHIBIT NO.  DESCRIPTION

10.11        Distributorship Agreement dated as of March 1, 1994 between the Company and 766884
             Ontario Inc., carrying on business as Waterloo Maple Software (filed as Exhibit 10.15 to
             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1994, file number 0-
             020992, and incorporated herein by reference).*

10.12        Perpetual Technology License dated as of March 1, 1994, as amended by Addendum No. 1
             there to dated as of March 25, 1994, between the Company and 766884 Ontario Inc., carrying
             on business as Waterloo Maple Software (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to Quarterly Report on Form
             10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1994, file number 0-020992, and incorporated
             herein by reference).*

10.13        Line of Credit Agreement, dated January 11, 1996, between the Company and Fleet Bank of
             Massachusetts (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
             ended March 31, 1996, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.14        Software License Agreement, dated February 18, 1996, between the Company and Lucent
             Technologies Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
             quarter ended December 31, 1996, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by
             reference).*

10.15        Amendment to Software License Agreement, dated September 25, 1997, between the Company
             and Lucent Technologies Inc.*

10.16        Executive Agreement, dated as of July 28, 1997, between the Company and Charles J. Digate
             (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
             September 30, 1997, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by reference).

10.17        Option Acceleration Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1997, between the Company and
             Robert P. Orlando (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
             quarter ended September 30, 1997, file number 0-020992, and incorporated herein by
             reference).

10.18        Amended and Restated Executive Agreement dated as of November 23, 1998, between the
             Company and Charles J. Digate.  (Filed as Exhibit 10.23 to Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
             fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.)

10.19        Amendments to Agreement of Lease Between Riverfront Office Park Joint Venture and
             MathSoft, Inc., dated as of October 23, 1998 and November 30, 1998, respectively.
10.20        Amended Line of Credit Agreement dated February 24, 1999, between the Company and Fleet
             Bank of Massachusetts.

10.21        Option Acceleration Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1997, between the Company and James C. Randles.

10.22        Option Acceleration Agreement, dated as of September 15, 1997, between the Company and Shawn David.

21.1         Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1         Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP

27.1         Financial Data Schedule
<FN>
*  Confidential  treatment  as  to  portions of the filed exhibit was previously
   granted.
</TABLE>


                                       32
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                      Index



                                                                           PAGE
<S>                                                                        <C>
Report of Independent Public Accountants                                   F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1999 and 1998               F-3

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Year Ended December 31, 1997 (unaudited),
the Six-Month Period Ended December 31, 1997 and for the Year Ended
June 30, 1997                                                              F-5

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998, for the Six-Month Period Ended December 31,
1997 and for the Year Ended June 30, 1997                                  F-6

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Year Ended December 31, 1997 (unaudited),
the Six-Month Period Ended December 31, 1997 and for the Year Ended
June 30, 1997                                                              F-7

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                                 F-8
</TABLE>


                                      F-1
<PAGE>
REPORT  OF  INDEPENDENT  PUBLIC  ACCOUNTANTS


To  MathSoft,  Inc.:

We  have  audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of MathSoft, Inc.
(a  Massachusetts corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998
and  the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and
cash  flows for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, the six-month period
ended  December  31,  1997 and the year ended June 30, 1997.  These consolidated
financial  statements  are  the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements  based  on  our  audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in  the  United  States.  Those  standards  require that we plan and perform the
audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free  of  material  misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit  also  includes  assessing  the accounting principles used and significant
estimates  made  by  management,  as  well  as  evaluating the overall financial
statement  presentation.  We  believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for  our  opinion.

In  our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in  all material respects, the financial position of MathSoft, Inc. and
subsidiaries  as  of  December  31,  1999  and  1998  and  the  results of their
operations  and their cash flows for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998,
the  six-month  period  ended  December 31, 1997 and for the year ended June 30,
1997  in  conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.
                                               /s/ Arthur Anderson, L.L.P.

Boston,  Massachusetts
February  16,  2000


                                      F-2
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  Consolidated Balance Sheets

                                             ASSETS
                                                                               DECEMBER 31,
                                                                            1999          1998
<S>                                                                     <C>           <C>
Current Assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents                                             $  8,444,259  $ 5,706,657
  Accounts and other receivables, less reserves of approximately
    1,134,000 and $870,000 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively     6,163,284    5,318,087
  Inventories                                                                262,760      374,320
  Prepaid expenses                                                           382,291      342,599
                                                                        ------------  -----------

      Total current assets                                                15,252,594   11,741,663
                                                                        ------------  -----------

Property and Equipment, at cost:
  Computer equipment and software                                          5,529,795    4,786,904
  Furniture and fixtures                                                   1,105,128    1,036,313
  Property and equipment under capital lease                                 918,042      896,486
  Leasehold improvements                                                     626,534      624,658
                                                                        ------------  -----------

                                                                           8,179,499    7,344,361

  Less-Accumulated depreciation and amortization                           6,865,495    6,082,535
                                                                        ------------  -----------

                                                                           1,314,004    1,261,826
                                                                        ------------  -----------

Other Assets                                                                 425,922      488,595
                                                                        ------------  -----------

                                                                        $ 16,992,520  $13,492,084
                                                                        ============  ===========
</TABLE>

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


                                      F-3
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                     Consolidated Balance Sheets

                                             (Continued)

                                 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

                                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                                             1999           1998
<S>                                                                       <C>             <C>
Current Liabilities:
  Current portion of capital lease obligations and equipment financings   $   383,537   $    482,004
  Accounts payable                                                          2,362,150      2,481,154
  Accrued expenses and other current liabilities                            2,742,141      2,452,472
  Deferred revenue                                                          2,722,052      1,886,533
                                                                        --------------  -------------

    Total current liabilities                                               8,209,880      7,302,163
                                                                        --------------  -------------

Capital Lease Obligations and Equipment Financings,
  less current portion                                                        148,442        139,414
                                                                        --------------  -------------

Commitments (Note 4)

Stockholders' Equity:
  Preferred stock, $0.01 par value-
    Authorized-1,000,000 shares
    Issued and outstanding-none                                                     -              -
  Common stock, $0.01 par value-
    Authorized-20,000,000 shares
    Issued and outstanding-9,931,990 and 9,324,407, shares                     99,320         93,244
      at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively
  Additional paid-in capital                                               30,834,687     29,706,364
  Accumulated deficit                                                     (22,213,919)   (23,667,397)
  Cumulative translation adjustment                                           (85,890)       (81,704)
                                                                        --------------  -------------

      Total stockholders' equity                                            8,634,198      6,050,507
                                                                        --------------  -------------

                                                                        $  16,992,520   $ 13,492,084
                                                                        ==============  =============
</TABLE>

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


                                      F-4
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                        Consolidated Statements of Operations


                                                                                  SIX-MONTH
                                 ---------YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,---------      PERIOD ENDED   YEAR ENDED
                                                                                 DECEMBER 31,    JUNE 30,
                                       1999              1998          1997          1997         1997
                                                                   (Unaudited)
<S>                              <C>               <C>             <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenues:
  Software licenses              $    22,703,549   $  20,839,101   $18,039,610   $11,145,569   $15,179,191
  Services and other                   5,899,836       3,607,670     3,183,901     1,878,408     2,498,536
                                 ----------------  --------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

      Total revenues                  28,603,385      24,446,771    21,223,511    13,023,977    17,677,727
                                 ----------------  --------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Cost of Revenues:
  Software licenses                    3,565,472       2,963,682     3,397,952     1,817,283     3,124,158
  Services and other                   1,785,103       1,282,085     1,083,887       701,433       821,781
                                 ----------------  --------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

      Total cost of revenues           5,350,575       4,245,767     4,481,839     2,518,716     3,945,939
                                 ----------------  --------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

      Gross profit                    23,252,810      20,201,004    16,741,672    10,505,261    13,731,788
                                 ----------------  --------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

Operating Expenses:
  Sales and marketing                 12,797,312      10,364,022    10,413,111     5,169,379    10,251,376

  Research and development-
    Gross                              9,927,493       7,794,957     7,515,738     3,905,697     7,057,810
  Less-Funded research                (4,567,094)     (2,831,339)   (1,935,154)   (1,090,096)   (1,915,059)
                                 ----------------  --------------  ------------  ------------  ------------
  Research and development, net        5,360,399       4,963,618     5,580,584     2,815,601     5,142,751

  General and administrative           3,526,055       2,712,508     2,909,467     1,418,295     2,731,858
                                 ----------------  --------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

      Total operating expenses        21,683,766      18,040,148    18,903,162     9,403,275    18,125,985
                                 ----------------  --------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

      Income (loss) from
      operations                       1,569,044       2,160,856    (2,161,490)    1,101,986    (4,394,197)

Interest Income                          231,401         168,217       120,399        49,653       153,111

Interest Expense                         (70,059)        (86,066)      (41,068)      (29,270)      (14,440)
                                 ----------------  --------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

      Income (loss) before
      provision for income
      taxes                            1,730,386       2,243,007    (2,082,159)    1,122,369    (4,255,526)

Provision for Income Taxes               276,908          22,879        46,655        17,785        44,452
                                 ----------------  --------------  ------------  ------------  ------------

      Net income (loss)          $     1,453,478   $   2,220,128   $(2,128,814)  $ 1,104,584   $(4,299,978)
                                 ================  ==============  ============  ============  ============

Basic Net Income (Loss)
per Share                        $          0.15   $        0.24   $     (0.24)  $      0.12   $     (0.49)
                                 ================  ==============  ============  ============  ============

Diluted Net Income (Loss)
per Share                        $          0.14   $         .22   $     (0.24)  $      0.11   $     (0.49)
                                 ================  ==============  ============  ============  ============

Weighted Average Number
of Common Shares
Outstanding                            9,769,772       9,244,307     9,026,376     9,068,714     8,841,170
                                 ================  ==============  ============  ============  ============

Weighted Average Common
Shares Outstanding
Assuming Dilution                     10,493,724      10,126,758     9,026,376     9,944,283     8,841,170
                                 ================  ==============  ============  ============  ============
</TABLE>

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


                                      F-5
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity


                                     COMMON STOCK         ADDITIONAL    ACCUMULATED    CUMULATIVE      TOTAL       COMPREHENSIVE
                               NUMBER OF     $0.01 PAR     PAID-IN        DEFICIT     TRANSLATION  STOCKHOLDERS'    NET INCOME
                                SHARES         VALUE       CAPITAL                     ADJUSTMENT     EQUITY          (LOSS)
<S>                            <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>             <C>          <C>             <C>
Balance, June 30, 1996          8,579,262   $   85,793  $ 28,158,558  $ (21,474,509)  $  (11,146)  $  6,758,696    $          -
  Acquisition of
  acroScience Corporation         250,000        2,500       618,500     (1,217,622)           -       (596,622)              -
  Exercise of stock
  options and Employee
  Stock Purchase Plan             177,114        1,771       374,777              -            -        376,548               -
  Compensation associated
  with issuance of stock
  options                               -            -        10,000              -            -         10,000               -
  Net loss                              -            -             -     (4,299,978)           -     (4,299,978)     (4,299,978)
  Translation adjustment                -            -             -              -      (80,518)       (80,518)        (80,518)
                                                                                                                   -------------
  Comprehensive net
  loss for the year
    ended June 30, 1997                                                                                            $ (4,380,496)
                               -----------  -----------  -----------  --------------  -----------  --------------  =============


Balance, June 30, 1997          9,006,376       90,064    29,161,835    (26,992,109)     (91,664)     2,168,126               -
  Exercise of stock
  options and Employee
  Stock Purchase Plan             102,240        1,022       177,917              -            -        178,939               -
  Net income                            -            -             -      1,104,584            -      1,104,584       1,104,584
  Translation adjustment                -            -             -              -       43,674         43,674          43,674
                                                                                                                   -------------
  Comprehensive net
  income for the six-month
  period ended
    December 31, 1997                                                                                              $  1,148,258
                               -----------  -----------  -----------  --------------  -----------  --------------  =============


Balance,                        9,108,616       91,086    29,339,752    (25,887,525)     (47,990)     3,495,323
  December 31, 1997
  Exercise of stock
  options and Employee
  Stock Purchase Plan             215,791        2,158       366,612              -            -        368,770               -
  Net income                            -            -             -      2,220,128            -      2,220,128       2,220,128
  Translation adjustment                -            -             -              -      (33,714)       (33,714)        (33,714)
                                                                                                                   -------------
  Comprehensive net
  income for the year
    ended December 31, 1998                                                                                        $  2,186,414
                               -----------  -----------  -----------  --------------  -----------  --------------  =============


Balance, December 31, 1998      9,324,407       93,244    29,706,364    (23,667,397)     (81,704)     6,050,507               -
  Exercise of stock options
  and Employee Stock
  Purchase Plan                   607,583        6,076     1,128,323              -            -      1,134,399               -
  Net income                            -            -             -      1,453,478            -      1,453,478       1,453,478
  Translation adjustment                -            -             -              -       (4,186)        (4,186)         (4,186)
                                                                                                                   -------------
  Comprehensive net
  income for the
  year ended
    December 31, 1999                                                                                              $  1,449,292
                               -----------  -----------  -----------  --------------  -----------  --------------  =============

Balance, December 31, 1999      9,931,990   $   99,320  $ 30,834,687  $ (22,213,919)  $  (85,890)  $  8,634,198
                             =============  ==========  ============  ==============  ===========  =============
</TABLE>

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


                                      F-6
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


                                                                                              SIX-MONTH
                                                                                             PERIOD ENDED   YEAR ENDED
                                                            YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,         DECEMBER 31,    JUNE 30,
                                                       1999         1998          1997          1997           1997
                                                                               (Unaudited)
<S>                                               <C>            <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Cash Flows from Operating Activities:
  Net income (loss)                               $  1,453,478   $ 2,220,128   $(2,128,814)  $1,104,584    $(4,299,978)
  Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to
  net cash provided by (used in) operating
  activities-
    Depreciation and amortization                      978,635     1,065,421     1,166,749      648,866      1,063,503
    Compensation associated with
      issuance of stock options                              -             -        10,000            -         10,000
    Changes in assets and liabilities,
      net of acquisitions-
      Accounts and other receivables                  (845,199)   (1,845,753)      157,618     (234,522)       643,756
      Inventories                                      111,560      (119,115)      282,054       88,580        210,946
      Prepaid expenses                                 103,023      (108,885)      212,048      241,811        (93,886)
      Accounts payable                                (119,006)      237,868      (158,596)     206,543        329,822
      Accrued expenses and other
        current liabilities                            289,671       215,813       367,039     (399,362)      (252,499)
      Deferred revenue                                 835,519       497,491       352,207      (54,202)       350,702
                                                ---------------  ------------  ------------  -----------   ------------

        Net cash provided by
        (used in) operating activities               2,807,681     2,162,968       260,305    1,602,298     (2,037,634)
                                                ---------------  ------------  ------------  -----------   ------------

Cash Flows from Investing Activities:
  Purchases of property and equipment                 (835,139)     (624,081)     (754,775)    (423,711)      (780,171)
  Increase in other assets                            (133,000)     (474,405)      (36,119)     (15,579)       (46,683)
                                                ---------------  ------------  ------------  -----------   ------------

        Net cash used in
        investing activities                          (968,139)   (1,098,486)     (790,894)    (439,290)      (826,854)
                                                ---------------  ------------  ------------  -----------   ------------

Cash Flows from Financing
Activities:
  Payments on long-term debt                                 -             -             -            -        (16,000)
  Payments on capital lease obligations
    and equipment financings                          (699,177)     (641,425)     (277,366)    (138,901)      (132,975)
  Borrowings on capital lease obligations
    and equipment financings                           467,024       815,003       649,838       84,432        565,406
  Proceeds from exercise of stock options,
    warrants and Employee Stock Purchase Plan        1,134,399       368,770       320,169      178,939        376,548
                                                ---------------  ------------  ------------  -----------   ------------


        Net cash provided by
        financing activities                           902,246       542,348       692,641      124,470        792,979
                                                ---------------  ------------  ------------  -----------   ------------


Effect of Exchange Rate Changes
on Cash and Cash Equivalents                            (4,186)      (33,714)       55,391       43,674        (80,518)
                                                ---------------  ------------  ------------  -----------   ------------


Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash
 and Cash Equivalents                                2,737,602     1,573,116       217,443    1,331,152     (2,152,027)

Cash and Cash Equivalents,
beginning of period                                  5,706,657     4,133,541     3,916,098    2,802,389      4,954,416
                                                ---------------  ------------  ------------  -----------   ------------


Cash and Cash Equivalents, end of period        $    8,444,259   $ 5,706,657   $ 4,133,541   $4,133,541    $ 2,802,389
                                                ===============  ============  ============  ===========   ============


Supplemental Disclosure of
Cash Flow Information:
  Cash paid during the period
  for-
    Interest                                    $       70,059   $    85,437   $    41,068   $   29,271    $    14,439
                                                ===============  ============  ============  ===========   ============
    Income taxes                                $      194,908   $    10,000   $    10,511   $    2,981    $     7,530
                                                ===============  ============  ============  ===========   ============
<FN>
Supplemental  Disclosure  of  Noncash  Investing  and  Financing  Activities:
The  Company financed $83,623 and $63,333 of equipment through capital leases in
the  six-month  period  ended  December  31, 1997 and in the year ended June 30,
1997,  respectively.
</TABLE>

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
statements.


                                      F-7
<PAGE>
                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)


(1)     Operations  and  Significant  Accounting  Policies

MathSoft,  Inc.  (MathSoft)  was  incorporated  on  October  12,  1984. MathSoft
develops,  markets  and  supports  software productivity tools for the technical
calculation  and  data analysis markets comprised of professionals, students and
educators.

On  June  1,  1999,  MathSoft incorporated FreeScholarships.com, Inc. (FSC) as a
wholly  owned  subsidiary  of  MathSoft.  On June 11, 1999, FSC issued 3,545,455
shares  of  Series  A  Preferred  Stock  to MathSoft. FSC is an Internet company
providing  information  and  assistance  to  a  broad consumer market focused on
funding  the costs of education. FSC launched its Web site during February 2000.
Accordingly,  its  activity  through  December  31,  1999 consisted primarily of
developing  its  business  plan,  developing  its Web site and hiring employees.

The  accompanying  consolidated  financial statements comprise those of MathSoft
and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries  (collectively, the Company). All material
intercompany  accounts  and  transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

The  Company  is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties similar to those
of  other  companies  of  the  same size within its industry, including, without
limitation,  rapid  technological  change,  competition  and need to attract and
retain  key  employees.

The  accompanying  consolidated  financial statements reflect the application of
certain  accounting  policies  as  described  in  this note and elsewhere in the
consolidated  financial  statements  and  notes.

(a)     Change  in  Fiscal  Year

On  December  16,  1997,  the  Company  changed  its fiscal year from June 30 to
December  31.  Accordingly,  the  Company's  transition period was the six-month
period  from  July  1,  1997  to  December 31, 1997.  The unaudited consolidated
statements of operations and cash flows for the year ended December 31, 1997 are
presented  for  comparative  purposes  only.  These unaudited statements, in the
opinion  of  management,  include all adjustments (consisting only of normal and
recurring  adjustments)  necessary  for  fair  presentation  of  results for the
period.


                                      F-8
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                  (Continued)

(b)     Revenue  Recognition

Revenue from the licensing of software products is recognized in accordance with
Statement  of Position (SOP) No. 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended.
Revenues  from software product license agreements are recognized upon execution
of  a  license  agreement and delivery of the software, provided that the fee is
fixed  or  determinable  and deemed collectible by management. If conditions for
acceptance  are  required  subsequent  to delivery, revenues are recognized upon
customer  acceptance  if  such  acceptance  is not deemed to be perfunctory. The
Company  provides  for estimated returns and warranty costs at the time of sale.
The  Company  offers  maintenance  contracts  and  training  on  certain  of its
products. Maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the related
contracts  generally  for  one  year  or less. Training revenue is recognized as
services  are  performed. Amounts received in advance for maintenance agreements
are  recorded  as  deferred  revenue  on  the  accompanying consolidated balance
sheets.  (See  Note  1(g)  for  Funded  Research)

(c)     Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents

Cash  and  cash  equivalents  are stated at cost, which approximates market, and
consist  of  short-term,  highly  liquid investments with original maturities of
less  than  three  months.  Cash  equivalents  were approximately $5,960,000 and
$4,000,000  as  of  December  31,  1999  and  1998,  respectively, and consisted
primarily  of  investments  in  commercial  paper.

(d)     Inventories

Inventories  are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market and
consist  of  the  following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                       DECEMBER 31,
                     1999       1998
<S>               <C>         <C>
  Raw materials   $   82,444  $ 98,200
  Finished goods     180,316   276,120
                  ----------  --------

                  $  262,760  $374,320
                  ==========  ========
</TABLE>


                                      F-9
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                  (Continued)

(e)     Depreciation  and  Amortization

The  Company provides for depreciation and amortization by charges to operations
on  a  straight-line  basis,  in  amounts  estimated to allocate the cost of the
assets  over  their  estimated  useful  lives,  as  follows:

                  ASSET CLASSIFICATION           USEFUL LIVES

             Computer equipment and software       3 years
             Furniture and fixtures               3 - 5 years
             Leasehold improvements              Life of lease

Property  and  equipment  under capital leases are amortized over the shorter of
the  estimated  useful  life  of  three  to five years or the term of the lease.

(f)     Research  and  Development

The  Company  accounts  for  its  software  research  and  development  costs in
accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards (SFAS) No. 86,
Accounting  for  the  Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased or Otherwise
Marketed.  During  the  years  ended  December  31, 1999 and 1998, the six-month
period  ended  December  31,  1997 and the year ended June 30, 1997, the Company
expensed  all  research  and  development  costs,  as  those costs incurred from
technological  feasibility  to  general  release  were  not  material.

(g)     Funded  Research

Funded  Research  amounts  represent  reimbursements  primarily  from government
agencies for work performed by the Company's research and development department
on a cost-plus basis.  These amounts are recognized as the work is performed and
are  recorded  as an offset against the Company's total research and development
expenditures.  During  the  fiscal  years  ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, the
twelve  months  ended  December 31, 1997, the six months ended December 31, 1997
and  the  fiscal year ended June 30, 1997, funded research totaled approximately
$4,567,000,  $2,831,000,  $1,935,000,  $1,090,000  and $1,915,000, respectively.


                                      F-10
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

(h)     Net  Income  (Loss)Per  Share

The Company reports earnings per share in accordance with SFAS No. 128, Earnings
per  Share.  Under  SFAS  No.  128,  basic net income (loss) per common share is
computed  based  on  net  income (loss) available to common stockholders and the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.  Diluted
net income (loss) per share is computed based on the number of additional common
shares  that would have been outstanding if the dilutive potential common shares
had  been  issued.

A  reconciliation  of  basic  and  diluted  shares  outstanding  is  as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   SIX-MONTH      YEAR
                                                                  PERIOD ENDED    ENDED
                                     YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,     DECEMBER 31,   JUNE 30,
                                1999        1998        1997          1997        1997
                                                     (Unaudited)
<S>                          <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>           <C>
Weighted average common
  shares outstanding          9,769,772   9,244,307    9,026,376     9,068,714  8,841,170
Effect of dilutive
  stock options                 723,952     882,451            -       875,569          -
                             ----------  ----------  -----------  ------------  ---------

Weighted average common
  shares outstanding
  assuming dilution          10,493,724  10,126,758    9,026,376     9,944,283  8,841,170
                             ==========  ==========  ===========  ============  =========
</TABLE>

The  above  schedule  does  not  include  shares  of  common stock or options to
purchase  shares  of common stock of FSC, the Company's wholly owned subsidiary.

The  following  securities  were  not included in computing diluted earnings per
share  because  their  effect  would  be  antidilutive:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            SIX-MONTH      YEAR
                                                           PERIOD ENDED    ENDED
                             YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,      DECEMBER 31,   JUNE 30,
                             1999     1998       1997          1997        1997
                                              (Unaudited)
<S>                         <C>      <C>      <C>          <C>           <C>
Antidilutive stock options  349,116  255,586    2,872,292     1,996,723  3,001,562
                            =======  =======  ===========  ============  =========
</TABLE>


                                      F-11
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

(i)     Foreign  Currency  Translation

Assets  and  liabilities  of the Company's foreign branch are translated to U.S.
dollars  using the exchange rate at each balance sheet date.  Income and expense
accounts  are  translated  using  an average rate of exchange during the period.
Foreign currency translation adjustments are accumulated as a separate component
of  stockholders'  equity.  The effect of aggregate transaction gains and losses
are recognized currently in the statements of operations. The Company recognized
transaction  losses  of approximately $14,000, $20,000 and $277,000 in the years
ended  December  31, 1999, 1998 and December 31, 1997 (unaudited), respectively,
$75,000  in  the  six-month  period  ended  December  31, 1997 and approximately
$257,000  in  the  year  ended  June  30,  1997.

(j)     Other  Assets

Other  assets,  consisting primarily of purchased technology, long-term deposits
and  capitalized  legal  patent  fees,  totaled  $425,922  and  $488,595, net of
accumulated  amortization  of  $194,446  and $98,415 as of December 31, 1999 and
1998,  respectively.  During  1998,  the  Company purchased a UK distributor for
approximately  $382,000  and this amount is included in other assets as goodwill
net  of  accumulated  amortization  of  $135,701  and  is  being  amortized over
thirty-six  months.

The  Company  assesses  the realizability of its long-lived assets in accordance
with  SFAS  No.  121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived  Assets  to  Be  Disposed  Of.  Under  SFAS  No.  121, the Company is
required  to assess the valuation of its long-lived assets, including intangible
assets, based on the estimated cash flows to be generated by such assets.  Based
on its most recent analysis, the Company believes that no material impairment of
intangible  assets  exists  as  of  December  31,  1999.

(k)     Concentration  of  Credit  Risk

SFAS  No.  105,  Disclosure  of  Information  about  Financial  Instruments with
Off-Balance-Sheet  Risk  and Financial Instruments with Concentrations of Credit
Risk,  requires  disclosure of any significant off-balance-sheet and credit risk
concentrations.  The Company's financial instruments that subject the Company to
credit  risk  consist  primarily  of  cash  and  cash  equivalents  and accounts
receivable.  The  Company  maintains  the majority of its cash balances with one
financial  institution.  The  Company  has  not  experienced  significant losses
related  to  accounts  receivable  from  any  individual  customers or groups of
customers  in  any  specific  industry  or  geographic  area.


                                      F-12
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

During the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 and the six-month period ended
December  31, 1997, one customer accounted for 13%, 13% and 12% of net revenues,
respectively.  One  customer accounted for 14% of net revenues in the year ended
June  30,  1997.  As  of  December  31,  1999, the Company had one customer that
accounted  for  15% of accounts receivable.  As of December 31, 1998 the Company
had  one  customer  that  accounted  for  12%  of  accounts  receivable.

(l)     Use  of  Estimates

The  preparation  of  these consolidated financial statements in conformity with
generally  accepted  accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and  assumptions  that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure  of  contingent  assets  and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported
period.  Actual  results  could  differ  from  those  estimates.

(m)     Financial  Instruments

SFAS  No.  107,  Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments, requires
disclosure  about  fair  value  of  financial  instruments  consisting  of cash,
accounts receivable, equipment financing and capital leases.  The estimated fair
value  of  these  financial instruments approximates their carrying value in the
accompanying  financial  statements.

(n)     New  Accounting  Standards

In  June  1999, Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 137,
Accounting  for  Derivative  Instruments  and Hedging Activities-Deferral of the
Effective  Date  of  FASB  Statement No. 133, which defers the effective date of
SFAS No. 133 to all fiscal quarters of all fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2000.  SFAS  No.  133,  Accounting  for  Derivative  Instruments  and  Hedging
Activities,  issued in June 1998, establishes accounting and reporting standards
for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other  contracts, and hedging activities. It requires an entity to recognize all
derivatives  as  either  assets  or  liabilities  in  the statement of financial
position  and  measure  those  instruments  at  fair value. The Company does not
expect  adoption  of  this  statement  to  have  a  significant  impact  on  its
consolidated  financial  position  on  results  of  operations.

In  December  1999,  the  Securities  and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, as amended by SAB 101(a), Revenue Recognition
in Financial Statements.  SAB  No.  101  is  effective  for the  second  quarter
of all fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 1999.  Adoption  of  SAB  No.
101  is  not  expected  to have a material impact on the Company's  consolidated
financial  position  or  results  of  operations.


                                      F-13
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

In  December  1998  the AICPA issued Statement of Position 98-9, Modification of
SOP  97-2 Software Revenue Recognition with respect to Certain Transactions. SOP
98-9  requires use of the residual method of recognition of revenues when vendor
specific  objective  evidence exists for undelivered elements but does not exist
for  delivered  elements of a software arrangement. The Company will be required
to  comply  with the provision of SOP 98-9 for transactions entered into January
1,  2000.  The Company does not expect adoption of SOP 98-9 will have a material
impact  on  its  financial  position  or  operating  results.

(2)     Income  Taxes

The  Company  accounts  for  income  taxes  in  accordance  with  SFAS  No. 109,
Accounting  for  Income  Taxes.  Under  this  method,  deferred  tax  assets and
liabilities  are  determined  based  on  the  difference  between  the financial
statement  and  tax  bases of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax
rates.

The  components  of  domestic and foreign income (loss) before the provision for
income  taxes  are  as  follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    SIX-MONTH
                                   PERIOD ENDED   YEAR ENDED
         YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,  DECEMBER 31,    JUNE 30,
             1999        1998          1997          1997
<S>       <C>         <C>          <C>           <C>
Domestic  $1,340,869  $1,706,031   $  633,233    $(4,011,290)
Foreign      389,517     536,976      489,136       (244,236)
          ----------  ----------   ------------  ------------

          $1,730,386  $2,243,007   $1,122,369    $(4,255,526)
          ==========  ==========   ============  ============
</TABLE>


                                      F-14
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

The  provisions  for  income  taxes  consist  of  the  following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           SIX-MONTH
                                                          PERIOD ENDED  YEAR  ENDED
                                YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,  DECEMBER 31,   JUNE 30,
                                   1999        1998          1997          1997
Current tax expense-
<S>                              <C>        <C>           <C>           <C>
Foreign                          $276,908   $  22,879     $  17,785     $    44,452

Deferred tax (expense) benefit-
Federal                            70,000    (387,000)      578,000               -
State                              12,000     (68,000)      102,000               -
                                 ---------  ----------    ----------    -----------
                                   82,000    (455,000)      680,000               -

Change in valuation reserve       (82,000)    455,000      (680,000)              -
                                 ---------  ----------    ----------    -----------

Total                            $276,908   $  22,879     $  17,785     $    44,452
                                 =========  ==========    ==========    ===========
</TABLE>


                                      F-15
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

A  reconciliation  of  the federal statutory rate to the Company's effective tax
rate  is  as  follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           SIX-MONTH
                                                          PERIOD ENDED  YEAR ENDED
                                YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,  DECEMBER 31,   JUNE 30,
                                1999              1998         1997       1997
<S>                             <C>            <C>        <C>           <C>
Income tax provision at
federal statutory rate             34.00%         34.00%       34.00%     (34.00%)

Increase (decrease) in
tax resulting from-
  State tax provision, net
  of Federal rate                   6.27           6.03         6.36        (6.18)
  Other Permanent Items             0.76           0.96         1.00         0.83
  Effect of Foreign Tax Rate        8.35          (7.12)      (13.23)        3.00
  Foreign Tax Deduction            (5.44)         (0.35)       (0.54)       (0.36)
  Utilization of  NOL             (27.93)        (32.50)      (26.00)       40.27
  Valuation Allowance              17.34          13.80        11.92            -
  Credits                         (17.34)        (13.80)      (11.92)       (2.52)
                                ---------  -------------  -----------   ----------

                                   16.01%          1.02%        1.59%        1.04%
                                =========  =============  ===========   ==========
</TABLE>

The  significant  components  of  the deferred tax assets and liabilities are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               DECEMBER 31,
                                           1999          1998
<S>                                    <C>           <C>
Net  operating  loss  carryforward     $ 5,113,000   $ 5,298,000
Research  and  development
  credit  carryforwards                  1,320,000     1,020,000
Depreciation                               454,000       362,000
Temporary  differences                     667,000       792,000
                                       ------------  ------------

                                         7,554,000     7,472,000

Valuation  allowance                    (7,554,000)   (7,472,000)
                                       ------------  ------------
  Net deferred tax asset               $         -   $         -
                                       ============  ============
</TABLE>


                                      F-16
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

Due  to  the uncertainty surrounding the realization of its deferred tax assets,
the  Company  has  recorded  a full valuation allowance against its deferred tax
assets.

During  1999,  the  Company has utilized approximately $545,000 of net operating
loss  carryforwards  and  has  available  net  operating  loss  carryforwards of
approximately  $15,039,000  and  tax  credit  carryforwards  of  approximately
$1,320,000.  The  net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be used to
offset  future  federal  taxable  income and federal income taxes, respectively,
through  the  year ending December 31, 2013.  The Internal Revenue Code contains
provisions  that limit the net operating loss and credit carryforwards available
to  be  used  in any given year upon the occurrence of certain events, including
significant  changes  in  ownership  interests.

(3)     Equipment  Financing

During  1999,  the  Company  entered into several financing arrangements for the
purchase  of  fixed  assets totaling $467,024, all of which were equipment lease
financing  arrangements.  All  of the financings are payable in 24 equal monthly
payments  of  principal  plus  interest  ranging  from  8.67%  to  9.66%.

The  Company  has  purchased  equipment  under financing agreements and has also
leased  certain  equipment  under  capital  leases expiring through fiscal 2002.
Future  minimum  payments  as  of  December  31,  1999  under  these  financing
arrangements  and  capital  leases  are  as  follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                                              <C>
Year ending December 31,
  2000                                                           $414,473
  2001                                                            156,006
  2002                                                              1,396
                                                                 --------

    Total minimum lease payments                                  571,875

Less-Amount representing interest                                  39,896
                                                                 --------

    Present value of minimum payments                             531,979

Less-Current portion of equipment financings and capital leases   383,537
                                                                 --------

                                                                 $148,442
                                                                 ========
</TABLE>


                                      F-17
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

(4)     Commitments

The  Company  has  operating  leases  for  its  Cambridge,  Waltham, Seattle and
international  office  spaces  and certain office equipment.  One lease provides
for  uneven  payments during the lease term; however, rent expense is charged to
operations  evenly  over  the  leased  period.

The  approximate  future  lease  payments  under  the  Company's operating lease
arrangements,  exclusive  of operating costs and net of sublease revenue through
October  2004  are  as  follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                               GROSS
                             OPERATING
                              LEASES
<S>                          <C>
Year ending December 31,
2000                         $ 1,273,000
2001                           1,220,000
2002                           1,194,000
2003                           1,194,000
2004                             752,000
                             -----------

Total future lease payments  $ 5,633,000
                             ===========
</TABLE>

Rental  expense under the Company's operating leases was approximately $913,000,
$793,000  and  $786,000  for  the  years  ended  December  31, 1999 and 1998 and
December  31,  1997 (unaudited), respectively, $430,000 for the six-month period
ended  December 31, 1997, and approximately $723,000 for the year ended June 30,
1997.

(5)     Stockholders'  Equity

(a)     Stock  Option  Plans

The  Company  has  a  stock option plan that was adopted in 1992 (the 1992 Plan)
whereby  the  Board  of  Directors  may  grant  incentive  stock options (ISOs),
nonqualified  stock  options,  awards of common stock and authorizations to make
direct  purchases  of common stock to eligible employees and others, as defined.
ISOs  are  granted  at  a  price  not less than fair market value at the date of
grant.  The  options  typically  vest  over a five-year period.  At December 31,
1999  the  Company had 538,499 options available for future grant under the 1992
Plan.


                                      F-18
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

The  Company  has  a Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan (the 1992 Director's
Plan)  pursuant  to  which  directors  who  are not officers or employees of the
Company  annually  receive  options  to  purchase shares of the Company's common
stock.  A  total  of 400,000 shares of common stock may be issued under the 1992
Director's Plan.  The exercise price of each option equals the fair market value
of the stock on the date of grant.  The options are exercisable upon the earlier
of  one year from the date of grant or the first annual meeting of stockholders,
following  the  date  of  grant  at  which members of the Board are elected.  At
December  31,  1999,  the Company had 295,416 options available for future grant
under  the  1992  Director's  Plan.

The  Board  of  Directors granted Key Officer Stock Options to members of senior
management  of  the  Company  in  1992.  The  Key  Officer  Stock  Options  are
nonqualified,  nonplan  stock  options  exercisable  for an aggregate of 907,556
shares  of common stock at an exercise price of $1.08 per share, the fair market
value  of  the  common  stock on the date of grant.  Each such option expires 11
years  from  the  date  of grant, subject to earlier termination if the optionee
ceases  to  serve the Company other than by reason of death or disability.  Each
Key  Officer  Stock  Option became exercisable upon the closing of the Company's
initial  public  offering.

The  Company  has  a  Non-Qualified,  Non-Officer  Stock  Option  Plan (the 1996
Non-Officer  Plan)  under  which  employees  and  consultants to the Company are
granted  nonqualified  options  to  purchase  stock  in the Company.  A total of
200,000  shares  of  common stock may be issued under the 1996 Non-Officer Plan.
The  vesting of options granted under the 1996 Non-Officer Plan is determined at
the date of grant.  Each option expires 10 years from the date of grant, subject
to earlier termination if the optionee ceases to serve the Company other than by
reason  of  death or disability, and is not transferable.  At December 31, 1999,
the  Company  had  46,642  options  available  for  future  grant under the 1996
Non-Officer  Plan.

As  of  December  31,  1999,  a  total  of 5,407,556 shares of common stock were
reserved  for  issuance  under  the 1992 Plan, the 1992 Director's Plan, the Key
Officer  Stock  Option  Plan,  and  the  1996  Non-Officer  Plan.

The  Company  accounts  for  its stock-based compensation plans under Accounting
Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and
has  adopted  the  disclosure-only alternative under SFAS No. 123 for employees,
which  requires disclosure of the pro forma effects on earnings and earnings per
share as if SFAS No. 123 had been adopted, as well as certain other information.
The  Company  has computed the pro forma disclosures required under SFAS No. 123
for  all  stock options granted during fiscal years 1997, 1998 and 1999, and the
six  months ended December 31, 1997, including the Employee Stock Purchase Plan,
using  the  Black-Scholes  option pricing model prescribed by SFAS No. 123.  For
nonemployees,  SFAS  No.  123  requires that the compensation expense calculated
using  the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model be charged to the statement of
operations.  The  value  of  options awarded to nonemployees as determined under
SFAS  No.  123  is not material to the results of operations for the fiscal year
ended June 30, 1997, or for the six-month period ended December 31, 1997.  There
were  no  grants to nonemployees for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1999.


                                      F-19
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

The  assumptions  used  and  the  weighted  average  information are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               SIX-MONTH
                                                              PERIOD ENDED    YEAR ENDED
                              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,        DECEMBER 31,     JUNE 30,
                                 1999              1998           1997           1997
<S>                          <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>
Risk-free interest rates     5.10% - 6.33%   4.53% - 5.67%   5.95% - 6.61%   6.00% - 6.74%
Expected dividend yield           None           None            None            None
Expected lives                  7 years         5 years         5 years         5 years
Expected volatility               119%            77%             70%             70%
Weighted average grant-
date fair value of options
granted during the period       $ 2.52          $ 1.67          $ 2.50          $ 1.62
Weighted average remaining
contractual life of options
outstanding                    7.06 years     7.16 years      7.76 years      5.10 years
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            SIX-MONTH
                                                           PERIOD ENDED  YEARS ENDED
                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,   JUNE 30,
                                   1999           1998          1997        1997
<S>                            <C>           <C>            <C>         <C>
Net income (loss)
 as reported                   $  1,453,478  $   2,220,128  $1,104,584  $(4,299,978)
                               ============  =============  ==========  ============

Pro forma net
income (loss)                  $    359,323  $   1,271,140  $  706,565  $(4,880,616)
                               ============  =============  ==========  ============

Basic income (loss)
per share as reported          $       0.15  $        0.24  $     0.12  $     (0.49)
                               ============  =============  ==========  ============

Diluted net income
(loss) per share as reported   $       0.14  $        0.22  $     0.11  $     (0.49)
                               ============  =============  ==========  ============

Pro forma basic net
 income (loss) per share       $       0.03  $        0.14  $     0.08  $     (0.55)
                               ============  =============  ==========  ============

Pro forma diluted net
 income (loss) per share       $       0.03  $        0.13  $     0.07  $     (0.55)
                               ============  =============  ==========  ============
</TABLE>


                                      F-20
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

Because  the  method  prescribed by SFAS No. 123 has not been applied to options
granted  prior  to  1995,  the  resulting pro forma compensation cost may not be
representative  of  that  to  be  expected  in  the  future  years.

The  Company's  stock  option  activity  for  all  plans  is  as  follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                  NUMBER OF     WEIGHTED AVERAGE
                                   SHARES       EXERCISE PRICE
<S>                               <C>           <C>
Outstanding at June 30, 1996        2,368,368   $           3.03
  Granted                           1,289,514               2.74
  Exercised                          (148,651)              1.64
  Canceled                           (507,669)              4.28
                                  ------------  ----------------

Outstanding at June 30, 1997        3,001,562               2.33
  Granted                             110,900               3.42
  Exercised                           (78,770)              1.60
  Canceled                           (161,400)              2.35
                                  ------------  ----------------

Outstanding at December 31, 1997    2,872,292               2.39
  Granted                             721,150               2.67
  Exercised                          (161,278)              1.56
  Canceled                           (183,658)              3.30
                                  ------------  ----------------

Outstanding at December 31,1998      3,248,506              2.43
  Granted                              729,950              2.78
  Exercised                           (541,248)             1.83
  Canceled                            (442,140)             2.82
                                  -------------  ---------------

Outstanding at December 31,1999      2,995,068   $          2.57
                                  =============  ===============

Exercisable at December 31, 1999     1,732,446   $          2.44
                                  =============  ===============

Exercisable at December 31, 1998      1,847,454   $         2.21
                                  ==============  ==============

Exercisable at June 30, 1997          1,378,182   $         2.04
                                  ==============  ==============
</TABLE>


                                      F-21
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

The  following  table  summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December  31,  1999:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                -----OPTIONS OUTSTANDING----------  --------OPTIONS EXERCISABLE--------
                               WEIGHTED                           WEIGHTED
                               AVERAGE    WEIGHTED                 AVERAGE    WEIGHTED
                 NUMBER OF    REMAINING   AVERAGE    NUMBER OF    REMAINING    AVERAGE
RANGE OF          OPTIONS    CONTRACTUAL   OPTION     OPTIONS    CONTRACTUAL   OPTION
OPTION PRICES   OUTSTANDING     LIFE        PRICE   EXERCISABLE     LIFE        PRICE
<S>             <C>          <C>          <C>       <C>          <C>          <C>
1.00 -  2.06        697,537   2.23 years  $   1.85      587,534   0.86 years  $    1.82
2.25 -  4.00      2,166,495   5.60 years      2.62    1,066,626   4.12 years       2.54
4.75 -  6.38        131,036   2.79 years      5.47       78,286   2.30 years       5.56
                -----------                         -----------

                  2,995,068   4.70 years      2.57    1,732,446   2.94 years       2.44
                ===========                         ===========
</TABLE>

(b)     FreeScholarships.com  Option  Activity

FreeScholarships.com  adopted  its  Stock  Option and Incentive Plan during 1999
(the 1999 Plan) whereby the Board of Directors may grant incentive stock options
(ISOs),  nonqualified  stock  options  and  awards  of  common stock to eligible
employees and others, as defined. ISOs are granted at a price not less than fair
market  value  at the date of grant. The options typically vest over a four-year
period,  beginning  on  the year anniversary of the date of grant. The number of
shares of Common Stock that may be issued pursuant to the 1999 Plan is 1,909,090
shares.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                  NUMBER OF  EXERCISE
                                   SHARES      PRICE
<S>                               <C>        <C>
Outstanding at December 31, 1998          -  $      -
Granted                           1,259,909      0.13
                                  ---------  --------

Outstanding at December 31, 1999  1,259,909  $   0.13
                                  =========  ========

Exercisable at December 31, 1999          -         -
                                  =========  ========
</TABLE>


                                      F-22
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)


There  were no grants to nonemployees for the year ended December 31, 1999.  The
SFAS  No.  123  assumptions  used  and weighted average information for the year
ended  December  31,  1999  are  as  follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                        <C>
Risk-free interest rates                   6.05%-6.33%
Expected dividend yield                       None
Expected lives                              7 years
Expected volatility                           70%
Weighted average grant-date fair value
  of options granted during the period       $0.09
Weighted average remaining
  contractual life of options outstanding  9.47 years
</TABLE>

Had  compensation  cost for FreeScholarships.com stock option plan been recorded
under SFAS No. 123 the effect on FreeScholarships.com's net loss would have been
immaterial.

(c)     Employee  Stock  Purchase  Plan

The  Company  has  an employee stock purchase plan pursuant to which the Company
has  reserved  and  may issue up to 450,000 shares of common stock in semiannual
offerings over a 10-year period.  Shares of common stock are sold at 85% of fair
market  value,  as  defined.  During the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998,
the  Company  issued  66,335  and  54,513  shares  under the Plan, respectively.
During  the  six-month period ended December 31, 1997, the Company issued 23,470
shares  under the Plan.  During the year ended June 30, 1997, the Company issued
28,463,  shares  under  the  Plan.


                                      F-23
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

(6)     Geographic  Data

Revenues  by  geographic  area  based  on  customer location were as follows (in
thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    SIX-MONTH
                                                   PERIOD ENDED  YEAR ENDED
                         YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,  DECEMBER 31,   JUNE 30,
GEOGRAPHIC AREA               1999        1998        1997         1997
<S>                         <C>         <C>        <C>           <C>
United States and Canada    $20,829     $17,549    $      9,177  $   11,661
United Kingdom                2,313       1,640             977       1,675
Germany                       1,217         813             625         648
Japan                           737         768             442         849
Other                         3,507       3,677           1,803       2,845
                            -------     -------    ------------  ----------

                            $28,603     $24,447    $     13,024  $   17,678
                            =======     =======    ============  ==========
</TABLE>

(7)     Segment  Reporting

The  Company  adopted  SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise
and  Related  Information,  during  the  fourth  quarter  of 1998.  SFAS No. 131
established  standards  for  reporting  information  about operating segments in
annual  financial  statements  and requires selected information about operating
segments  in  interim  financial  reports  issued  to  stockholders.  It  also
established  standards  for  related  disclosures  about  products, services and
geographic areas.  Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise
about  which  separate  financial  information  is  available  that is evaluated
regularly by the chief operating decision, or decision making group, in deciding
how  to  allocate  resources  and  in  assessing  performance.  MathSoft's chief
operating decision making group consists of the Chief Executive Officer, members
of  Senior  Management  and  the Board of Directors.  The operating segments are
managed  separately  because  each  represents  a  different  market  served  by
specialized  products,  services  and  distribution.

MathSoft's  reportable  operating segments include the Engineering and Education
Software  Products  Division,  the Data Analysis Software Products Division, and
FreeScholarships.com.  Revenues  for Engineering and Education Software Products
Division  are  derived  from sales of Mathcad, Electronic Books, Axum, Extension
Packs  and  Study  Works.  Revenues  from  the  Data  Analysis Software Products
Division  include  S-PLUS licenses, maintenance, training and consulting, add-on
modules  and  StatServer.  The  Company  did  not  generate  revenues related to
FreeScholarships.com  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  1999.


                                      F-24
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

The  accounting  policies of the segments are the same as those described in the
summary  of  significant  accounting  policies.  MathSoft  evaluates performance
based  on  stand-alone  operating  segment  net  income  (loss).  Revenues  are
attributed  to  geographic areas based on where the end customer is located (see
Note  6).

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 SIX-MONTH
                                                                PERIOD ENDING   YEAR ENDED
                                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,       DECEMBER 31,    JUNE 30,
                                     1999            1998           1997          1997
                                                      (In thousands)
<S>                             <C>             <C>             <C>            <C>
Segment Revenues-
  Engineering and Education
    Software Products Division  $      16,391   $      15,604   $   8,776      $   11,850
  Data Analysis Software
    Products Division                  12,212           8,843       4,248           5,828
  FreeScholarships.com                      -               -           -               -
                                --------------  --------------  ----------     -----------
      Total net revenues        $      28,603   $      24,447   $  13,024      $   17,678
                                ==============  ==============  ==========     ===========

Segment Income (Loss)-
  Engineering and Education
    Software Products Division  $       1,552   $       1,973   $   1,153      $   (2,153)
  Data Analysis Software
    Products Division                   1,743             247         (48)         (2,147)
  FreeScholarships.com                 (1,842)              -           -               -
                                --------------  --------------  ----------     -----------
      Total net income (loss)   $       1,453   $       2,220   $   1,105      $   (4,300)
                                ==============  ==============  ==========     ===========

Segment Assets-
  Engineering and Education
    Software Products Division  $      19,641   $      14,798   $  12,125      $   11,201
  Data Analysis Software
    Products Division                   4,227           4,074       3,067           2,965
  FreeScholarships.com                  1,506               -           -               -
  Eliminations                         (8,381)         (5,380)     (5,380)         (5,380)
                                --------------  --------------  ----------     -----------
      Total                     $      16,993   $      13,492   $   9,812      $    8,786
                                ==============  ==============  ==========     ===========

Segment Expenditures to
Acquire Long-Lived Assets-
  Engineering and Education
    Software Products Division  $         229   $         436   $     232      $      440
  Data Analysis Software
    Products Division                     450             662         207             397
  FreeScholarships.com                    289               -           -               -
                                --------------  --------------  ----------     -----------
      Total                     $         968   $       1,098   $     439      $      837
                                ==============  ==============  ==========     ===========

Segment Interest Income-
  Engineering and Education
   Software Products Division   $         169   $         168   $      50      $      147
  Data Analysis Software
    Products Division                       7               -           -               6
  FreeScholarships.com                     55               -           -               -
                                --------------  --------------  ----------     -----------
      Total                     $         231   $         168   $      50      $      153
                                ==============  ==============  ==========     ===========


                                      F-25
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

Segment Interest Expense-
  Engineering and Education
    Software Products Division  $          37   $          50   $      18      $       11
  Data Analysis Software
    Products Division                      33              36          11               3
  FreeScholarships.com                      -               -           -               -
                                --------------  --------------  ----------     -----------
      Total                     $          70   $          86   $      29      $       14
                                ==============  ==============  ==========     ===========

Segment Income Tax Provision-
  Engineering and Education
    Software Products Division  $         162   $          23   $      18      $       44
  Data Analysis Software
    Products Division                     115               -           -               -
  FreeScholarships.com                      -               -           -               -
                                --------------  --------------  ----------     -----------
      Total                     $         277   $          23   $      18      $       44
                                ==============  ==============  ==========     ===========

Segment Depreciation
and Amortization-
  Engineering and Education
    Software Products Division  $         465   $         584   $     396      $      667
  Data Analysis Software
    Products Division                     501             481         253             397
  FreeScholarships.com                     13               -           -               -
                                --------------  --------------  ----------     -----------
      Total                     $         979   $       1,065   $     649      $    1,064
                                ==============  ==============  ==========     ===========
</TABLE>


(8)     Accrued  Expenses

Accrued  expenses  and  other  current  liabilities  consist  of  the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                               1999          1998
<S>                                        <C>            <C>
Accrued payroll and payroll-related items  $   1,342,996  $1,196,616
Accrued vacation                                 419,243     440,676
Accrued royalties                                272,760     178,918
Other accrued expenses                           707,142     636,262
                                           -------------  ----------

                                           $   2,742,141  $2,452,472
                                           =============  ==========
</TABLE>


                                      F-26
<PAGE>
                          MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                                December 31, 1999

                 (Including Data Applicable to Unaudited Period)

                                    (Continued)

(9)     Line  of  Credit

The  Company  has  a line of credit with a bank, collateralized by substantially
all  of  the  Company's  assets.  Borrowings are limited to the lesser of 80% of
eligible  domestic  accounts receivable, as defined, or $2,000,000.  Interest on
outstanding  borrowings  under this line is based on the bank's prime rate (8.5%
at December 31, 1999) plus 0.5%. The Company had no outstanding borrowings under
this line as of December 31, 1999.  The agreement, which expires April 30, 2000,
contains covenants that, among other things, require the Company to meet certain
profitability  and  maximum  leverage  ratios and to maintain a minimum level of
tangible  net  worth.

(10)     Valuation  and  Qualifying  Accounts

A  rollforward  of  the  allowance for doubtful accounts and allowance for sales
returns  for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, the six-month period ended
June  30,  1997  and  the  year  ended  June  30,  1997  are  as  follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             BALANCE,
                                            BEGINNING  CHARGED TO               BALANCE,
                                               OF      COSTS AND                 END OF
                                             PERIOD     EXPENSES   DEDUCTIONS    PERIOD
<S>                                        <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>
Year Ended December 31, 1999:
Allowance for doubtful accounts            $  169,062  $   72,737  $    98,638  $  143,161
Allowance for sales returns                   700,547     290,238            -     990,785
                                           ----------  ----------  -----------  ----------

Total reserve for accounts receivable      $  869,609  $  362,975  $    98,638  $1,133,946
                                           ==========  ==========  ===========  ==========

Year Ended December 31, 1998:
Allowance for doubtful accounts            $  459,820  $   97,708  $   388,466  $  169,062
Allowance for sales returns                 1,138,513     122,487      560,453     700,547
                                           ----------  ----------  -----------  ----------

Total reserve for accounts receivable      $1,598,333  $  220,195  $   948,919  $  869,609
                                           ==========  ==========  ===========  ==========

Six-Month Period Ended December 31, 1997:
Allowance for doubtful accounts            $  410,825  $   56,660  $     7,665  $  459,820
Allowance for sales returns                 1,309,031     105,119      275,637   1,138,513
                                           ----------  ----------  -----------  ----------

Total reserve for accounts receivable      $1,719,856  $  161,779  $   283,302  $1,598,333
                                           ==========  ==========  ===========  ==========

Year Ended June 30, 1997:
Allowance for doubtful accounts            $  376,734  $   83,297  $    49,206  $  410,825
Allowance for sales returns                   398,944   1,306,858      396,771   1,309,031
                                           ----------  ----------  -----------  ----------

Total reserve for accounts receivable      $  775,678  $1,390,155  $   445,977  $1,719,856
                                           ==========  ==========  ===========  ==========
</TABLE>


                                      F-27
<PAGE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.21
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>

                          OPTION ACCELERATION AGREEMENT
                          -----------------------------

     OPTION  ACCELERATION  AGREEMENT,  dated  as  of  September 15, 1997, by and
between  MathSoft,  Inc.  (the  "Company") and James C. Randles (the "Officer").

     WHEREAS,  the  Officer  has  made and is expected to continue to make major
contributions  to  the  Company;

     WHEREAS,  the  Company  desires  continuity  of  management;  and

     WHEREAS,  the  Officer  is  willing  to  continue to render services to the
Company  subject  to  the  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement.

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  for  good  and  valuable  consideration,  the receipt and
sufficiency  of  which is hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Officer agree
as  follows:

     1.     CHANGE  OF  CONTROL.  Upon  a  Change in Control, the Company shall:
            -------------------

     (a)     Cause  50%  of  any unexercisable installments of any stock options
held  by  the  Officer  on the Change of Control that have not expired to become
exercisable  on the Change of Control; provided, however, that such acceleration
                                       --------  -------
of exercisability shall not occur to the extent that:  (i) the Change of Control
is  intended to be accounted for as a pooling of interests; and (ii) the Company
concludes,  after  consulting  with  its  independent  accountants,  that  such
acceleration  would  prevent  the  Change  of  Control  transaction  from  being
accounted  for  as a pooling of interests for financial accounting purposes; and

     (b)     Cause the period after a termination of employment within which any
option  may be exercised by the Officer in accordance with the provisions of the
relevant  option  agreement  and  option  plan  to be extended to twelve months;
provided,  however, that such extension of exercisability shall not occur to the
     ---   -------
extent  that:  (i)  the  Change  of Control is intended to be accounted for as a
pooling  of interests; and (ii) the Company concludes, after consulting with its
independent accountants, that such extension of exercisability would prevent the
Change of Control transaction from being accounted for as a pooling of interests
for  financial  accounting  purposes.

provided,  however,  that:  (i)  the  Company's obligation to provide any of the
- --------   -------
amounts  and  benefits  set  forth  in  this  Section 1 shall be subject to, and
conditioned  upon,  the Officer's execution, on or before the Change of Control,
of  a  full  release of claims satisfactory to the Company releasing the Company
and  its  affiliates,  subsidiaries,  divisions, directors, employees and agents
from any claims arising from or related to the Officer's employment or severance
from  employment  with  the  Company,  including  any  claims  arising from this
Agreement, such release to be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto (the
                                                           ---------
"Release");  and (ii) notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the
Company  shall  not  be obligated to provide any of the amounts and benefits set
forth in this Section 1 until any applicable period within which the Officer may
revoke  the  Release  has  expired.


<PAGE>
     2.     GENERAL.
            -------
     (a)     For  purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean the
closing  of:  (i)  a merger, consolidation, liquidation or reorganization of the
Company  into or with another Company or other legal person, after which merger,
consolidation,  liquidation  or  reorganization the capital stock of the Company
outstanding  prior  to  consummation of the transaction is not converted into or
exchanged  for or does not represent more than 50% of the aggregate voting power
of the surviving or resulting entity; (ii) the direct or indirect acquisition by
any  person (as the term "person" is used in Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the
Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as amended) of more than 50% of the voting
capital  stock  of  the  Company, in a single or series of related transactions;
(iii) the sale, exchange, or transfer of the business unit for which the Officer
principally  works;  or  (iv)  the  sale,  exchange,  or  transfer  of  all  or
substantially  all  of  the  Company's  assets  (other  than a sale, exchange or
transfer  to  one  or  more  entities  where  the  stockholders  of  the Company
immediately  before  such  sale,  exchange  or  transfer  retain,  directly  or
indirectly,  at  least a majority of the beneficial interest in the voting stock
of  the  entities  to  which  the  assets  were  transferred).

     (c)     Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if the
Company  determines  in  its sole discretion after consultation with its tax and
accounting advisors that the Officer is a Disqualified Individual (as defined in
Section  280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code")) and
that  any  portion  of  any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the
benefit  of the Officer, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable
pursuant  to  the terms of this Agreement or otherwise (a "Payment") would be an
Excess  Parachute  Payment  (as defined in Section 280G of the Code) but for the
application  of  this  sentence,  then the amount of all such Payments otherwise
payable  to  the  Officer  pursuant  to  this  Agreement shall be reduced to the
minimum  extent necessary (but in no event to less than zero) so that no portion
of  any  Payment,  as  so reduced, constitutes an Excess Parachute Payment.  For
purposes  of  this  reduction,  no  portion  of  any Payment shall be taken into
account  to  the  extent that such Payment, in the opinion of the Company, after
consultation  with  its  tax  and  accounting  advisors,  does  not constitute a
"parachute  payment"  within  the  meaning  of  Section  280G(b)(2) of the Code.

     (d)     Except  as  otherwise  provided  herein,  this  Agreement  shall be
binding  upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and any successor (whether
direct  or  indirect,  by  purchase,  merger,  consolidation,  reorganization or
otherwise)  of the Company; provided, however, that the Company shall obtain the
                            --------  -------
written  agreement  of  any  successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase,
merger,  consolidation,  reorganization or otherwise) of the Company to be bound
by  the  provisions  of this Agreement as if such successor were the Company and
for  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  any  such successor of the Company shall be
deemed  to  be  the  "Company"  for  all  purposes.

     (e)     Nothing  in  this Agreement shall create any obligation on the part
of  the  Company  or any other person to continue the employment of the Officer.


<PAGE>
     (f)     Nothing herein shall affect the Officer's obligations under any key
employee,  non-competition, confidentiality, option or similar agreement between
the  Company and the Officer currently in effect or which may be entered into in
the  future.

     (g)     This  Agreement  shall  be  governed by and construed in accordance
with  the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  This Agreement constitutes
the  entire Agreement between the Officer and the Company concerning the subject
matter  hereof  and  supersedes  any  prior  negotiations,  understandings  or
agreements  concerning  the  subject matter hereof, whether oral or written, and
may be amended or rescinded only upon the written consent of the Company and the
Officer.  The  invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement
shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement and this Agreement shall
be  construed  and reformed to the fullest extent possible.  The Officer may not
assign any of his/her rights or obligations under this Agreement; the rights and
obligations  of  the Company under this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of,
and  shall  be  binding  upon,  the successors and assigns of the Company.  This
Agreement  may  be  executed  in  any number of counterparts, all of which taken
together  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.


<PAGE>
     IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
executed  as  of  the  date  first  written  above.

                                              The  Company:
                                              ------------

                                              MATHSOFT,  INC.

                                              By:

                                              Name:  Robert  P.  Orlando

                                              Title:V.P.  Finance&Admin/CFO


                                              The  Officer:
                                              ------------

                                              Signature:

                                              Printed  Name:James  C.  Randles


<PAGE>
                                                                       EXHIBIT A
                                                                       ---------

                                AGREEMENT/WAIVER
                                ----------------


     It is hereby agreed by and between ____________________ (the "Officer") and
MathSoft, Inc. (the "Company"), for good and sufficient consideration more fully
described  below,  that:

     1.     Consideration.  The  Company  will  provide  the  Officer  with  the
            -------------
amounts and benefits described in Section 1 of the Option Acceleration Agreement
entered  into  by  the  Company  and  the  Officer, dated ___________, 1997 (the
"Acceleration  Agreement"),  subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  of  such
Acceleration  Agreement.  The  Officer  understands  that  all such benefits are
conditioned  upon  the  Officer  signing  this  Agreement.

     2.     Settlement  of Amounts Due the Officer.  The Officer agrees that the
            --------------------------------------
benefits  set  forth  above  in  Section 1, together with any amounts previously
provided  to  the  Officer  by  the Company, shall be complete and unconditional
payment, settlement, satisfaction and accord with respect to all obligations and
liabilities  of the Company and any of its affiliated companies (including their
respective  successors,  assigns,  shareholders,  officers, directors, employees
and/or  agents)  to the Officer, and all claims, causes of action and damages by
the  Officer  against  the  Company  and/or any such other parties regarding the
Officer's  employment  with  and  termination  from employment with the Company,
including,  without  limitation,  all  claims  for  back  wages,  salary, draws,
commissions, bonuses, vacation pay, equity compensation, expenses, compensation,
severance  pay,  attorney's  fees,  compensatory  damages, exemplary damages, or
other  costs  or  sums.

     3.     Release.
            -------

     (a)     In exchange for the amounts and benefits described in Section 1 and
other  good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged,
the Officer and his/her representatives, agents, estate, successors and assigns,
absolutely and unconditionally hereby release and forever discharge the Company,
its  affiliated  companies  and/or  their  successors,  assigns,  directors,
shareholders,  officers, employees and/or agents, both individually and in their
official  capacities,  (the  "Releasees"), from any and all actions or causes of
action, suits, claims, complaints, contracts, liabilities, agreements, promises,
debts and damages, whether existing or contingent, known or unknown, which arise
out  of  the  Officer's  employment with or termination from employment with the
Company.  This  release is intended by the Officer to be all encompassing and to
act  as  a full and total release of any claims that the Officer may have or has
had  against the Releasees, including, but not limited to, any federal, state or
local  law  or  regulation  dealing  with  either  employment  or  employment
discrimination  such  as  those laws or regulations concerning discrimination on
the  basis  of  age,  race,  color,  religion,  creed,  sex, sexual orientation,
national  origin,  ancestry,  marital status, physical or mental disability, any
veteran  status or any military service or application for any military service;
any  contract,  whether  oral  or  written,  express  or implied; or common law.

     (b)     The  Officer agrees not only to release and discharge the Releasees
from  any  and all claims as stated above that the Officer could make on his/her
own  behalf or on behalf of others, but also those claims which might be made by
any  other  person  or  organization  on  behalf of the Officer, and the Officer
specifically waives any right to become, and promises not to become, a member of
any  class  in  a case in which a claim or claims against the Releasees are made
involving  any  matters  which  arise  out  of  the Officer's employment with or
termination  from  employment with the Company.  Nothing in this Agreement is to
be  construed  as  an  admission  by  the Releasees of any liability or unlawful
conduct  whatsoever.

     4.     Waiver  of  Rights  and  Claims  Under  the  Age  Discrimination and
            --------------------------------------------------------------------
Employment  Act  of 1967.  [Only applicable if the Officer is 40 years of age or
       -----------------
older  at  the  time  of  termination  of  employment.]

     (a)     The  Officer has been informed that since he/she is 40 years of age
or  older,  he/she has or might have specific rights and/or claims under the Age
Discrimination  and  Employment  Act  of 1967.  In consideration for the amounts
described  in  Section  1  hereof,  the  Officer specifically waives such rights
and/or  claims  to  the extent that such rights and/or claims arose prior to the
date  this  Agreement  was  executed.

     (b)     The  Officer was advised by the Company of his/her right to consult
with  an  attorney  prior  to  executing  this  Agreement.

     (c)     The  Officer  was  further advised when he/she was presented by the
Company  with the original draft of this Agreement on _______, 199_, that he/she
had  at  least 21 days within which to consider its terms and to consult with or
seek  advice from an attorney or any other person of his/her choosing, until the
close  of  business  on  __________,  199_.

     5.     Confidentiality.  The  Officer  agrees  he/she  shall not divulge or
            ---------------
publish,  directly  or  indirectly,  any  information  whatsoever  regarding the
substance,  terms  or  existence of the Acceleration Agreement or this Agreement
and/or any discussions or negotiations relating to the Acceleration Agreement or
this Agreement to any person or organization, except to his/her immediate family
members,  counsel  or  accountant, and unless required under law or court order.

     6.     Representations  and  Governing  Law.
            ------------------------------------

     (a)     This  Agreement  represents  the  complete  and  sole understanding
between the parties, supersedes any and all other agreements and understandings,
whether  oral  or  written,  except for the [list key employee, non competition,
option  or  confidentiality agreements] entered into by the Company and Officer,
and  the  Acceleration  Agreement,  which remain in full force and effect.  This
Agreement  may not be modified, altered or rescinded except upon written consent
of the Company and Officer.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision
of  this  Agreement shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement, but
this  Agreement  shall  be revised, construed and reformed to the fullest extent
possible  to effectuate the purposes of this Agreement.  This Agreement shall be
binding  upon  and inure to the benefit of the Company and the Officer and their
respective  heirs,  successors  and assigns.  The parties agree that the Company
will not have an adequate remedy if the Officer fails to comply with Sections 3,
4,  and 5 hereof and that damages will not be readily ascertainable, and that in
the  event  of such failure, the Officer shall not oppose any application by the
Company  requiring a decree of specific performance or an injunction enjoining a
breach  of  this  Agreement.  If the Officer breaches any of his/her obligations
hereunder,  he/she  shall  forfeit  all right to payments pursuant to Section 1.

     (b)     This  Agreement  shall  be  governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without giving effect to the
principles  of  conflicts  of  law  thereof.

     (c)     The  Officer  represents  that  he/she  has  read  the  foregoing
Agreement,  fully understands the terms and conditions of such Agreement, and is
voluntarily  executing  the  same.  In entering into this Agreement, the Officer
does  not  rely  on  any  representation,  promise  or  inducement  made  by the
Releasees,  with  the exception of the consideration described in this document.

     7.     Effective  Date.  [Only applicable if the Officer is 40 years of age
            ---------------
or older at the time of termination of employment.]  The Officer may revoke this
Agreement  during  the  period  of seven (7) days following its execution by the
Officer, and this Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable until this
revocation  period  has  expired.


<PAGE>
                                              The  Company:
                                              ------------

                                              MATHSOFT,  INC.

                                              By:______________________________

                                              Name:____________________________

                                              Title:___________________________

                                              Date:____________________________


                                              The  Officer:
                                              ------------

                                              Signature:_______________________

                                              Printed  Name:___________________

                                              Date:____________________________

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.22
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>


                          OPTION ACCELERATION AGREEMENT
                          -----------------------------

     OPTION  ACCELERATION  AGREEMENT,  dated  as  of  September 15, 1997, by and
between  MathSoft,  Inc.  (the  "Company")  and  Shawn  Javid  (the  "Officer").

     WHEREAS,  the  Officer  has  made and is expected to continue to make major
contributions  to  the  Company;

     WHEREAS,  the  Company  desires  continuity  of  management;  and

     WHEREAS,  the  Officer  is  willing  to  continue to render services to the
Company  subject  to  the  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement.

     NOW,  THEREFORE,  for  good  and  valuable  consideration,  the receipt and
sufficiency  of  which is hereby acknowledged, the Company and the Officer agree
as  follows:

     1.     CHANGE  OF  CONTROL.  Upon  a  Change in Control, the Company shall:
            -------------------

     (a)     Cause  50%  of  any unexercisable installments of any stock options
held  by  the  Officer  on the Change of Control that have not expired to become
exercisable  on the Change of Control; provided, however, that such acceleration
                                       --------  -------
of exercisability shall not occur to the extent that:  (i) the Change of Control
is  intended to be accounted for as a pooling of interests; and (ii) the Company
concludes,  after  consulting  with  its  independent  accountants,  that  such
acceleration  would  prevent  the  Change  of  Control  transaction  from  being
accounted  for  as a pooling of interests for financial accounting purposes; and

     (b)     Cause the period after a termination of employment within which any
option  may be exercised by the Officer in accordance with the provisions of the
relevant  option  agreement  and  option  plan  to be extended to twelve months;
provided,  however, that such extension of exercisability shall not occur to the
     ---   -------
extent  that:  (i)  the  Change  of Control is intended to be accounted for as a
pooling  of interests; and (ii) the Company concludes, after consulting with its
independent accountants, that such extension of exercisability would prevent the
Change of Control transaction from being accounted for as a pooling of interests
for  financial  accounting  purposes.

provided,  however,  that:  (i)  the  Company's obligation to provide any of the
- --------   -------
amounts  and  benefits  set  forth  in  this  Section 1 shall be subject to, and
conditioned  upon,  the Officer's execution, on or before the Change of Control,
of  a  full  release of claims satisfactory to the Company releasing the Company
and  its  affiliates,  subsidiaries,  divisions, directors, employees and agents
from any claims arising from or related to the Officer's employment or severance
from  employment  with  the  Company,  including  any  claims  arising from this
Agreement, such release to be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto (the
                                                           ---------
"Release");  and (ii) notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the
Company  shall  not  be obligated to provide any of the amounts and benefits set
forth in this Section 1 until any applicable period within which the Officer may
revoke  the  Release  has  expired.

     2.     GENERAL.
            -------
     (a)     For  purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean the
closing  of:  (i)  a merger, consolidation, liquidation or reorganization of the
Company  into or with another Company or other legal person, after which merger,
consolidation,  liquidation  or  reorganization the capital stock of the Company
outstanding  prior  to  consummation of the transaction is not converted into or
exchanged  for or does not represent more than 50% of the aggregate voting power
of the surviving or resulting entity; (ii) the direct or indirect acquisition by
any  person (as the term "person" is used in Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the
Securities  Exchange  Act  of  1934,  as amended) of more than 50% of the voting
capital  stock  of  the  Company, in a single or series of related transactions;
(iii) the sale, exchange, or transfer of the business unit for which the Officer
principally  works;  or  (iv)  the  sale,  exchange,  or  transfer  of  all  or
substantially  all  of  the  Company's  assets  (other  than a sale, exchange or
transfer  to  one  or  more  entities  where  the  stockholders  of  the Company
immediately  before  such  sale,  exchange  or  transfer  retain,  directly  or
indirectly,  at  least a majority of the beneficial interest in the voting stock
of  the  entities  to  which  the  assets  were  transferred).

     (c)     Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if the
Company  determines  in  its sole discretion after consultation with its tax and
accounting advisors that the Officer is a Disqualified Individual (as defined in
Section  280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code")) and
that  any  portion  of  any payment or distribution by the Company to or for the
benefit  of the Officer, whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable
pursuant  to  the terms of this Agreement or otherwise (a "Payment") would be an
Excess  Parachute  Payment  (as defined in Section 280G of the Code) but for the
application  of  this  sentence,  then the amount of all such Payments otherwise
payable  to  the  Officer  pursuant  to  this  Agreement shall be reduced to the
minimum  extent necessary (but in no event to less than zero) so that no portion
of  any  Payment,  as  so reduced, constitutes an Excess Parachute Payment.  For
purposes  of  this  reduction,  no  portion  of  any Payment shall be taken into
account  to  the  extent that such Payment, in the opinion of the Company, after
consultation  with  its  tax  and  accounting  advisors,  does  not constitute a
"parachute  payment"  within  the  meaning  of  Section  280G(b)(2) of the Code.

    (d)     Except  as  otherwise  provided  herein,  this  Agreement  shall be
binding  upon and inure to the benefit of the Company and any successor (whether
direct  or  indirect,  by  purchase,  merger,  consolidation,  reorganization or
otherwise)  of the Company; provided, however, that the Company shall obtain the
                            --------  -------
written  agreement  of  any  successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase,
merger,  consolidation,  reorganization or otherwise) of the Company to be bound
by  the  provisions  of this Agreement as if such successor were the Company and
for  purposes  of  this  Agreement,  any  such successor of the Company shall be
deemed  to  be  the  "Company"  for  all  purposes.

   (e)     Nothing  in  this Agreement shall create any obligation on the part
of  the  Company  or any other person to continue the employment of the Officer.

    (f)     Nothing herein shall affect the Officer's obligations under any key
employee,  non-competition, confidentiality, option or similar agreement between
the  Company and the Officer currently in effect or which may be entered into in
the  future.

    (g)     This  Agreement  shall  be  governed by and construed in accordance
with  the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  This Agreement constitutes
the  entire Agreement between the Officer and the Company concerning the subject
matter  hereof  and  supersedes  any  prior  negotiations,  understandings  or
agreements  concerning  the  subject matter hereof, whether oral or written, and
may be amended or rescinded only upon the written consent of the Company and the
Officer.  The  invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement
shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement and this Agreement shall
be  construed  and reformed to the fullest extent possible.  The Officer may not
assign any of his/her rights or obligations under this Agreement; the rights and
obligations  of  the Company under this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of,
and  shall  be  binding  upon,  the successors and assigns of the Company.  This
Agreement  may  be  executed  in  any number of counterparts, all of which taken
together  shall  constitute  one  and  the  same  instrument.

<PAGE>
     IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
executed  as  of  the  date  first  written  above.

                                              The  Company:
                                              ------------

                                              MATHSOFT,  INC.

                                              By:

                                              Name:  Robert  P.  Orlando

                                              Title:V.P.  Finance&Admin/CFO


                                              The  Officer:
                                              ------------

                                              Signature:

                                              Printed  Name:Shawn  Javid
<PAGE>

                                                                       EXHIBIT A
                                                                       ---------

                                AGREEMENT/WAIVER
                                ----------------

      It is hereby agreed by and between  ____________________  (the  "Officer")
and  MathSoft,  Inc. (the "Company"), for good and sufficient consideration more
fully described  below,  that:

     1.     Consideration.  The  Company  will  provide  the  Officer  with  the
            -------------
amounts and benefits described in Section 1 of the Option Acceleration Agreement
entered  into  by  the  Company  and  the  Officer, dated ___________, 1997 (the
"Acceleration  Agreement"),  subject  to  the  terms  and  conditions  of  such
Acceleration  Agreement.  The  Officer  understands  that  all such benefits are
conditioned  upon  the  Officer  signing  this  Agreement.

     2.     Settlement  of Amounts Due the Officer.  The Officer agrees that the
            --------------------------------------
benefits  set  forth  above  in  Section 1, together with any amounts previously
provided  to  the  Officer  by  the Company, shall be complete and unconditional
payment, settlement, satisfaction and accord with respect to all obligations and
liabilities  of the Company and any of its affiliated companies (including their
respective  successors,  assigns,  shareholders,  officers, directors, employees
and/or  agents)  to the Officer, and all claims, causes of action and damages by
the  Officer  against  the  Company  and/or any such other parties regarding the
Officer's  employment  with  and  termination  from employment with the Company,
including,  without  limitation,  all  claims  for  back  wages,  salary, draws,
commissions, bonuses, vacation pay, equity compensation, expenses, compensation,
severance  pay,  attorney's  fees,  compensatory  damages, exemplary damages, or
other  costs  or  sums.

     3.     Release.
            -------

     (a)     In exchange for the amounts and benefits described in Section 1 and
other  good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged,
the Officer and his/her representatives, agents, estate, successors and assigns,
absolutely and unconditionally hereby release and forever discharge the Company,
its  affiliated  companies  and/or  their  successors,  assigns,  directors,
shareholders,  officers, employees and/or agents, both individually and in their
official  capacities,  (the  "Releasees"), from any and all actions or causes of
action, suits, claims, complaints, contracts, liabilities, agreements, promises,
debts and damages, whether existing or contingent, known or unknown, which arise
out  of  the  Officer's  employment with or termination from employment with the
Company.  This  release is intended by the Officer to be all encompassing and to
act  as  a full and total release of any claims that the Officer may have or has
had  against the Releasees, including, but not limited to, any federal, state or
local  law  or  regulation  dealing  with  either  employment  or  employment
discrimination  such  as  those laws or regulations concerning discrimination on
the  basis  of  age,  race,  color,  religion,  creed,  sex, sexual orientation,
national  origin,  ancestry,  marital status, physical or mental disability, any
veteran  status or any military service or application for any military service;
any  contract,  whether  oral  or  written,  express  or implied; or common law.

     (b)     The  Officer agrees not only to release and discharge the Releasees
from  any  and all claims as stated above that the Officer could make on his/her
own  behalf or on behalf of others, but also those claims which might be made by
any  other  person  or  organization  on  behalf of the Officer, and the Officer
specifically waives any right to become, and promises not to become, a member of
any  class  in  a case in which a claim or claims against the Releasees are made
involving  any  matters  which  arise  out  of  the Officer's employment with or
termination  from  employment with the Company.  Nothing in this Agreement is to
be  construed  as  an  admission  by  the Releasees of any liability or unlawful
conduct  whatsoever.

     4.     Waiver  of  Rights  and  Claims  Under  the  Age  Discrimination and
            --------------------------------------------------------------------
Employment  Act  of 1967.  [Only applicable if the Officer is 40 years of age or
       -----------------
older  at  the  time  of  termination  of  employment.]

     (a)     The  Officer has been informed that since he/she is 40 years of age
or  older,  he/she has or might have specific rights and/or claims under the Age
Discrimination  and  Employment  Act  of 1967.  In consideration for the amounts
described  in  Section  1  hereof,  the  Officer specifically waives such rights
and/or  claims  to  the extent that such rights and/or claims arose prior to the
date  this  Agreement  was  executed.

     (b)     The  Officer was advised by the Company of his/her right to consult
with  an  attorney  prior  to  executing  this  Agreement.

     (c)     The  Officer  was  further advised when he/she was presented by the
Company  with the original draft of this Agreement on _______, 199_, that he/she
had  at  least 21 days within which to consider its terms and to consult with or
seek  advice from an attorney or any other person of his/her choosing, until the
close  of  business  on  __________,  199_.

     5.     Confidentiality.  The  Officer  agrees  he/she  shall not divulge or
            ---------------
publish,  directly  or  indirectly,  any  information  whatsoever  regarding the
substance,  terms  or  existence of the Acceleration Agreement or this Agreement
and/or any discussions or negotiations relating to the Acceleration Agreement or
this Agreement to any person or organization, except to his/her immediate family
members,  counsel  or  accountant, and unless required under law or court order.

     6.     Representations  and  Governing  Law.
            ------------------------------------

     (a)     This  Agreement  represents  the  complete  and  sole understanding
between the parties, supersedes any and all other agreements and understandings,
whether  oral  or  written,  except for the [list key employee, non competition,
option  or  confidentiality agreements] entered into by the Company and Officer,
and  the  Acceleration  Agreement,  which remain in full force and effect.  This
Agreement  may not be modified, altered or rescinded except upon written consent
of the Company and Officer.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision
of  this  Agreement shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement, but
this  Agreement  shall  be revised, construed and reformed to the fullest extent
possible  to effectuate the purposes of this Agreement.  This Agreement shall be
binding  upon  and inure to the benefit of the Company and the Officer and their
respective  heirs,  successors  and assigns.  The parties agree that the Company
will not have an adequate remedy if the Officer fails to comply with Sections 3,
4,  and 5 hereof and that damages will not be readily ascertainable, and that in
the  event  of such failure, the Officer shall not oppose any application by the
Company  requiring a decree of specific performance or an injunction enjoining a
breach  of  this  Agreement.  If the Officer breaches any of his/her obligations
hereunder,  he/she  shall  forfeit  all right to payments pursuant to Section 1.

     (b)     This  Agreement  shall  be  governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without giving effect to the
principles  of  conflicts  of  law  thereof.

     (c)     The  Officer  represents  that  he/she  has  read  the  foregoing
Agreement,  fully understands the terms and conditions of such Agreement, and is
voluntarily  executing  the  same.  In entering into this Agreement, the Officer
does  not  rely  on  any  representation,  promise  or  inducement  made  by the
Releasees,  with  the exception of the consideration described in this document.

     7.     Effective  Date.  [Only applicable if the Officer is 40 years of age
            ---------------
or older at the time of termination of employment.]  The Officer may revoke this
Agreement  during  the  period  of seven (7) days following its execution by the
Officer, and this Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable until this
revocation  period  has  expired.


<PAGE>

                                              The  Company:
                                              ------------

                                              MATHSOFT,  INC.

                                              By:_____________________________

                                              Name:___________________________

                                              Title:__________________________

                                              Date:___________________________


                                              The  Officer:
                                              ------------

                                              Signature:______________________

                                              Printed  Name:__________________

                                              Date:___________________________



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>


                         MATHSOFT, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SUBSIDIARIES




STATISTICAL  SCIENCES.  INC.
(A  MASSACHUSETTS  CORPORATION)


TRIMETRIX,  INC.
(A  WASHINGTON  CORPORATION)


DISTANCE  TRAINING.COM
(A  DELAWARE  CORPORATION)


FREESCHOLARSHIPS.COM,  INC.
(A  DELAWARE  CORPORATION)


<PAGE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>

                                                                    Exhibit 23.1


                    Consent of Independent Public accountants

As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation of our
reports  included  in  this  Form  10-K,  into  the  Company's  previously filed
Registration  Statement  Nos.  33-58560, 33-74848, 33-72162, 33-94466, 33-87542,
33-99618,  33-99620,  333-165005, 333-18245, 333-19513, 333-43833 and 333-87097.



                                              /s/ Arthur Anderson, L.L.P.

Boston,  Massachusetts
March  27,  2000
<PAGE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1

<S>                                     <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                           12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                       DEC-31-1999
<PERIOD-START>                          JAN-01-1999
<PERIOD-END>                            DEC-31-1999
<CASH>                                     8444259
<SECURITIES>                                     0
<RECEIVABLES>                              6163284
<ALLOWANCES>                                     0
<INVENTORY>                                 262760
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                          15252594
<PP&E>                                     8179499
<DEPRECIATION>                             6865495
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                            16992520
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                      8209880
<BONDS>                                          0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                            0
<PREFERRED>                                      0
<COMMON>                                     99320
<OTHER-SE>                                 8534878
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>              16992520
<SALES>                                   22703549
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                          28603385
<CGS>                                      3565472
<TOTAL-COSTS>                              5350575
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                          21683766
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                 0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                          161342
<INCOME-PRETAX>                            1730386
<INCOME-TAX>                                276908
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                        1453478
<DISCONTINUED>                                   0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                  0
<CHANGES>                                        0
<NET-INCOME>                               1453478
<EPS-BASIC>                                  .15
<EPS-DILUTED>                                  .14


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
