-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 VORyyq3O6AYhRBo5P8l935Sdmu97TDQ0cTJJUiORTdFXrolHQtsUfj4/mUd4/070
 sCXTvlUap6LIPOCFw44U3A==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001015402-04-001467.txt : 20040414
<SEC-HEADER>0001015402-04-001467.hdr.sgml : 20040414
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20040414160503
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001015402-04-001467
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20031231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20040414

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INSIGHTFUL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895095
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				042842217
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20992
		FILM NUMBER:		04733185

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1700 WESTLAKE AVENUE NORTH
		STREET 2:		SUITE 500
		CITY:			SEATTLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98109-3044
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6175771017

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1700 WESTLAKE AVENUE NORTH
		STREET 2:		SUITE 500
		CITY:			SEATTLE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98109-3044
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>doc1.txt
<TEXT>

================================================================================

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

[X]  ANNUAL  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT  OF  1934

     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-020992

                        ---------------------------------

                             INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                        DELAWARE                        04-2842217
     (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                 (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
      INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                  IDENTIFICATION)

                           1700 WESTLAKE AVE. N. #500
                         SEATTLE, WASHINGTON 98109-3044
                                 (206) 283-8802
    (ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES) (ZIP CODE)

                      -----------------------------------

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                          COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE
                                (TITLE OF CLASS)

                      -----------------------------------

     Indicate  by  check  mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required  to  be  filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or  for  such shorter period that the
registrant  was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  registrant's  knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form  10-K.  [X]

     Indicate  by  check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Yes [ ]  No [X]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant,  based on the closing sale price of the registrant's common stock on
June  30,  2003, as reported on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, was $10,716,994. The
number  of  shares  of common stock, $.01 par value, outstanding as of April 13,
2004  was  12,129,898.

          DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS 10-K:

     Portions of registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed pursuant to
Regulation  14A  promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which definitive proxy statement shall be filed
within 120 days after the end of the registrant's fiscal year ended December 31,
2003, are incorporated by reference in Part III of this report.


================================================================================


<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                            PAGE
                                                                                                            ----
<S>         <C>                                                                                             <C>
                                                     PART I

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY-HOLDERS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12

                                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13

ITEM 6.     SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14

ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS . . . . .   15

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27

ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28

ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. . . . . .   53

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   53

                                                     PART III


ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   54

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   54

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.   54

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   54

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   54

                                                     PART IV

ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   55

SIGNATURES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   58
</TABLE>

TRADEMARKS
- ----------

Insightful  Corporation,  the  Insightful  logo,  "Insightful  Intelligence From
Data",  S-PLUS,  S-PLUS Analytic Server, StatServer, InFact, Graphlet and S-PLUS
Graphlets  are  registered  trademarks  of  Insightful  Corporation.  S,
ArrayAnalyzer,  FinMetrics,  Anatolytics,  "Human-like  Intelligence", Visimine,
InCRMent,  Garch,  SpatialStats  and  SeqTrial  are  trademarks  of  Insightful
Corporation.


                                        i
<PAGE>
                                     PART I

FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS

     Our  disclosure  and  analysis  in  this  report  contain  forward-looking
statements,  which  provide  our  current  expectations  or  forecasts of future
events.  Forward-looking  statements in this report include, without limitation:

     -    information  concerning  possible  or  assumed  future  results  of
          operations,  trends in financial results and business plans, including
          those  relating  to  earnings  growth  and  revenue  growth;

     -    statements  about  the  level  of  our  costs  and  operating expenses
          relative  to  our  revenues, and about the expected composition of our
          revenues;

     -    statements  about  expected  future  sales  trends  for  our products;

     -    statements  about  our future capital requirements and the sufficiency
          of  our  cash,  cash  equivalents,  investments  and  available  bank
          borrowings  to  meet  these  requirements;

     -    information  about  the  anticipated  release  dates  of new products;

     -    other  statements  about  our  plans,  objectives,  expectations  and
          intentions;  and

     -    other  statements  that  are  not  historical  facts.

     Words  such  as  "believes,"  "anticipates"  and  "intends"  may  identify
forward-looking  statements, but the absence of these words does not necessarily
mean  that  a  statement  is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements are
subject  to  known  and  unknown  risks  and  uncertainties  and  are  based  on
potentially  inaccurate  assumptions  that  could cause actual results to differ
materially from those expected or implied by the forward-looking statements. Our
actual  results  could  differ  materially  from  those  anticipated  in  the
forward-looking  statements for many reasons, including the factors described in
the  section  entitled  Important  Factors  That  May  Affect  Our Business, Our
Operating  Results  and  Our  Stock  Price in this report. Other factors besides
those  described  in  this  report  could also affect actual results. You should
carefully  consider  the  factors  described  in  the section entitled Important
Factors  That May Affect Our Business, Our Operating Results and Our Stock Price
in  evaluating  our  forward-looking  statements.

     You should not unduly rely on these forward-looking statements, which speak
only  as  of  the  date  of  this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly
revise  any  forward-looking  statement to reflect circumstances or events after
the  date  of this report, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

ITEM  1.    BUSINESS.

DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  COMPANY

     We  provide enterprises with scalable data analysis solutions designed that
facilitate  decision-making  by revealing patterns, trends and relationships. We
are  a  leading  supplier of software and services for the statistical analysis,
data  mining  and  knowledge access industry segments enabling customers to gain
intelligence  from  numerical  data  and  text.

     Our  products  include S-PLUS(R), StatServer(R), S-PLUS Analytic Server(R),
Insightful  Miner  and  InFact(R).  Our  consulting services provide specialized
expertise  and  proven  processes  for the design, development and deployment of
analytical  solutions.

     We  have  been delivering data analysis solutions for 17 years to companies
in  financial  services,  pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, telecommunications and
manufacturing  as  well  as  government  and  research  institutions.

     Headquartered  in  Seattle, Washington, we also have North American offices
in New York and North Carolina. Our international offices are located in France,
Switzerland,  and  the  United  Kingdom,  with  distributors  around  the world.

     We  originally  incorporated in Massachusetts in 1984 and reincorporated in
Delaware  in  2001. Our principal executive offices are located at 1700 Westlake
Ave.  N, Suite 500, Seattle, Washington 98109, and our telephone number is (206)
283-8802.  Our  Internet  address  is  http://www.insightful.com.

PRODUCTS


                                        1
<PAGE>
DATA  ANALYSIS  PRODUCTS

  S-PLUS(R)

     S-PLUS  is our flagship product for statistical data analysis. The software
offers  technical  professionals  a flexible, extensible and productive platform
for  data  analysis  and  visualization.  S-PLUS  is  based on our award-winning
object-oriented  "S"  programming  language,  which  we licensed on an exclusive
worldwide  basis  from  Lucent Technologies Inc. until we acquired the rights to
"S"  in  January  2004.  S-PLUS  offers  a  wide  range  of analytic methods for
extracting  intelligence  from  large  data sets, and allows its users to create
customized  analytical  applications  that  operate  in  the  Windows  and  UNIX
environments.

  Insightful  Miner

     Insightful  Miner  is  a  highly  scalable  data  analysis  workbench  for
predictive  modeling,  data  mining and statistical data analysis. The intuitive
drag-and-drop  interface  makes  it  easy  to  create  self-documenting  visual
workmaps.  Insightful  Miner  provides  data  miners, business analysts and data
analysis professionals with a full suite of scalable components for data access,
management and modeling, and its unique pipeline architecture allows the user to
process  very  large  data sets. Insightful Miner is an open and extensible tool
that  offers  full  integration with the S-PLUS programming language. Insightful
Miner  offers  deployment  capabilities  via batch mode, predictive model markup
language  (PMML),  or  generated  C  code.  Insightful  Miner  has a low cost of
ownership  compared  to  its competitors, with a desktop entry-level version and
multiple  server  versions  offered  under perpetual licenses rather than annual
rental  agreements.

  Verticalized  Toolkits

     To  complement  S-PLUS  and  Insightful  Miner,  we  offer toolkits for the
financial  services  and  pharmaceutical  markets  to  allow  users  to  perform
specialized  data  analysis.

  Server  Products(R)

     Insightful's  S-Plus  Server  products  enable  our  customers  to  deploy
statistical  data  analysis  throughout  an  organization,  leveraging  existing
Web-based  or  client/server  technologies  using  server  computers  running
Windows(R)  and  UNIX(R)  operating  systems.  Our  server  products  are  data
warehouse-independent  and  integrate seamlessly with standard database and file
formats.  With  our server products, a wide range of statistical models and data
visualization  capabilities  are built and stored in a central server for access
by non-technical users, who can apply these analytical techniques using a simple
and  familiar  Web  browser  interface,  or  dedicated graphical user interfaces
written  using  Java technology. Our server products enable end-users to analyze
and  understand technical or business information without requiring expertise in
statistics  or  statistical  tools.

TEXT  ANALYSIS  PRODUCTS

  InFact(R)

     We  launched  our  text  analysis product, InFact, in April 2002 to provide
text  analysis  for  knowledge  workers. InFact combines statistical text mining
methods  with linguistic techniques that apply natural language processing, such
as  full  sentence  deep  syntactic  parsing,  to  text  search  and  analysis.
Researchers  are  able  to utilize InFact's natural language question and answer
and  tabular  exploratory  search  interfaces to efficiently uncover information
they  are  searching  for.  InFact thus enables researchers to experience higher
levels of productivity, and to improve the quality of their research. InFact has
been  initially targeted at the defense/intelligence and pharmaceutical markets.

SERVICES

     We  deliver support for our data analysis products through our maintenance,
consulting,  and  training  services.

     We  provide  product  updates and unspecified product upgrades and customer
support  services  under  an  annual  maintenance  agreement. Our consulting and
training  organization  provides  fee-based  services,  including  deployment
assistance,  project management, integration with existing customer applications
and  related  services  to  our  customers.  We also offer a series of fee-based
training  courses  to our customers. Courses can be taken at Insightful offices,
at  the  customer's  site,  or  at  other  prearranged sites for larger customer
groups.

OPERATIONS

MARKETING  AND  SALES

     Our  data  analysis  solutions  serve  a  variety  of  industries including
financial  services,  pharmaceuticals  and  biotechnology,  telecommunications,
manufacturing,  plus  government  and  research. Our data analysis solutions are


                                        2
<PAGE>
used  in  a  variety  of  functions including research, engineering, production,
marketing,  and  finance.  We focus our statistics and data analysis business on
two  vertical  markets:  financial  services  and  pharmaceuticals.

     We  acquire  domestic  customers  for  our products and consulting services
through  the  combination  of  a  domestic telesales organization and an outside
sales  team.  Leads  are  generated  from  direct  mail,  public  relations, the
Internet,  seminars  and  tradeshows. Our telesales and direct sales forces then
qualify  and  pursue  these  leads,  working  in  coordination  with  consulting
services.

     Internationally,  we have direct sales force offices in France, Switzerland
and  the United Kingdom. In other countries, we primarily sell through a network
of resellers and distributors, who may work in conjunction with the direct sales
force  on  global  accounts.  For  information  regarding revenues by geography,
please  refer  to  note  14 to our financial statements included in this report.

     Insightful  has  three  reporting  segments:  domestic  data  analysis,
international  data  analysis  and  text  analysis.  For  information  regarding
revenues  and  losses  from  operations for each of our last three fiscal years,
please  refer  to  our  financial  statements  included  in  this  report.

     The text analysis segment is currently dependent on a few customers, all of
which  are  departments  of the United States government. The loss of any one or
more  of  these  customers  would have a material adverse effect on the segment.


CUSTOMER  TECHNICAL  SUPPORT

     Technical  support  for  our  products  is provided by a staff of engineers
located in Seattle and other direct offices in Europe. Support is only available
to  customers  who  purchase an annual maintenance service. The initial one-year
maintenance  contract  is bundled into the license fees on most of our products.
International  customers  who  purchase  products  from  distributors  receive
first-line  technical  support  from  their  respective local distributors, with
further  support  and  escalation  provided  by  our  direct  offices.

MANUFACTURING  AND  DISTRIBUTION

     We  utilize  several  third  party  vendors to replicate our products. This
permits  us  to  manage  peak  volumes customary in the software industry and to
avoid high fixed costs associated with daily fluctuations in orders and customer
contacts.

     We  subcontract  with  third  party  vendors to replicate all of our S-PLUS
product  line updates. We warehouse inventory at a regional facility and process
domestic  orders internally out of our Seattle office. Most international orders
are processed and fulfilled by third party vendors located in the United Kingdom
that  also  provide  warehousing  and  fulfillment  services.

FUNDED  RESEARCH

     We  have  a  funded  research group that receives funding from U.S. federal
agencies  for  work  performed  under  government  grants. Research projects are
primarily performed under cost reimbursement arrangements, which provide funding
on  a  time  and  materials  basis  based on agency approved labor, overhead and
profit  rates.  The  terms  of these arrangements generally require us to submit
both  progress  and  final  reports.  Research projects are focused primarily on
extending  the  frontiers of data analysis for numeric, textual signal and image
data.  Funding  is  generally  received  through  cash  requests  or installment
payments.  These  amounts  are  recognized either as the work is performed under
time  and  material  contracts, or on a percentage of completion basis for fixed
bid  contracts,  and  are  recorded  as an offset against our total research and
development  costs.  Receivables  resulting  from  this activity are included in
other  receivables  on  the  balance  sheets.  Funded  research  recognized  in
operations  was  approximately  $4,307,000  in  2003,  $4,674,000  in  2002  and
$4,827,000  in  2001.

PRODUCT  DEVELOPMENT

     Our  product  development  organization  is  responsible  for  software
development,  product  documentation  and  quality assurance. The organization's
priorities are to continue technical innovation for power and performance and to
respond  to  market  feedback  by continuing to design products for ease-of-use.

     Our  development  team  consists  of  specialists  in software engineering,
quality  assurance,  mathematics,  statistics, computer science, engineering and
documentation,  user  interface  design and advanced Microsoft Windows, UNIX and
Internet  technologies.

     Gross  research  and  development  costs  charged  to  operations  were
approximately  $6,469,000 in 2003, $7,918,000 in 2002 and $7,574,000 in 2001. We
did  not  capitalize any software research and development costs during the year
ended  December  31, 2003, as we did not incur significant software research and
development  costs  between  the  technological feasibility date and the general
release  date.


                                        3
<PAGE>
COMPETITION

     Our  S-PLUS  product  targets  statisticians  and  data  managers  in  the
statistics  market.  This  market is competitive, fragmented and mature. We face
competition  in  the  statistics market primarily from large enterprise software
vendors  and our potential customers' information technology departments who may
create  custom-made  applications  instead  of  using Insightful software. These
departments  may  seek  to  develop  data analysis solutions utilizing R, a free
statistics software package that performs operations similar to the "S" language
that  forms  the  core  of  our  S-PLUS  product. The dominant competitor in our
industry  is  SAS  Institute. Other companies with which we compete include, but
are  not limited to, SPSS, Inc., StatSoft Inc., The Mathworks, Inc. and Minitab,
Inc.  In  addition  to competition from other statistical software companies, we
also  face  competition  from  providers  of  software  for specific statistical
applications.

     In  the  data mining and knowledge access markets, we face competition from
many  companies,  including  SAS  Institute,  SPSS,  IBM, NCR, Autonomy, Verity,
Inxight,  ClearForest  and  Iphrase,  many of which are much larger than we are.
With the exception of SAS and SPSS, these competitors do not currently offer the
range  of  analytical  capability we offer, and as a result are both competitors
and  potential  partners  for  our  technology.

INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY  RIGHTS  AND  LICENSES

     Our  software  is proprietary and we attempt to protect it with copyrights,
patents,  trade  secret  laws  and internal nondisclosure safeguards, as well as
restrictions  on  copying,  disclosure and transferability that are incorporated
into our software license agreements. Generally, our products are not physically
copy-protected.  In  order  to retain exclusive ownership rights to all software
developed by us, we license all software and provide it in executable code, with
contractual  restrictions  on  copying,  disclosure  and  transferability. As is
customary in the industry, we generally license our products to end-users by use
of  a "shrink-wrap" license. Certain specialized products may utilize a written,
signed  license  agreement  with  the  customer. The source code for most of our
products  is protected as a trade secret and as unpublished copyrighted work. In
addition,  we have entered into nondisclosure and inventions agreements with all
of  our  employees.  However,  judicial  enforcement  of these agreements may be
uncertain.  We  hold  one issued patent on InFact and have several other patents
applications  pending.

     During  the  reporting  period  we  were  a  worldwide  licensee of the "S"
programming  language  from  Lucent Technologies Inc. Under that license, we had
the  right  to  use,  sublicense  and  support  the "S" language in exchange for
royalties.  In  January  2004  we  acquired  the copyrights to the software code
underlying  the  "S"  programming  language  from  Lucent  for  $2.0  million.

     Due  to the rapid pace of technological change in the software industry, we
believe  that patent, trade secret and copyright protection are less significant
to  our  competitive  position  than  factors such as the knowledge, ability and
experience  of  our  personnel,  new  product  development,  frequent  product
enhancements,  name  recognition  and  ongoing  reliable product maintenance and
support.

EMPLOYEES

     As  of  December 31, 2003, our continuing operations employed approximately
106  full-time  and  part-time  employees,  of whom 21 reside outside the United
States.  As  necessary,  we supplement our employees with temporary and contract
personnel  in our continuing operations. As of December 31, 2003, we employed 12
temporary  and  contract  employees,  one of whom was located outside the United
States. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is subject to a
collective  bargaining  agreement. We have never experienced a work stoppage and
believe  that  our  employee  relations  are  good.

IMPORTANT  FACTORS  THAT  MAY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS AND OUR
STOCK  PRICE

     In  addition  to the other information contained in this annual report, you
should  carefully  read and consider the following risk factors. If any of these
risks  actually  occur,  our  business, financial condition or operating results
could  be  adversely  affected  and  the trading price of our common stock could
decline.

     OUR  OPERATING  RESULTS  FLUCTUATE  AND  COULD  FALL  BELOW EXPECTATIONS OF
     SECURITIES  ANALYSTS  AND  INVESTORS,  RESULTING IN A DECREASE IN OUR STOCK
     PRICE.

     Our  operating  results  have varied widely in the past, and we expect that
they  could  continue to fluctuate in the future. Our stock price could decrease
if  our  operating  results  for  a  particular  quarter  or year fall below the
expectations  of  securities  analysts  and  investors. Some of the factors that
could  affect  the  amount  and  timing of our revenues and related expenses and
cause  our  operating  results  to  fluctuate  include:

     -    our  primary  reliance  on  one  product  family;


                                        4
<PAGE>
     -    our  ability  to  penetrate  new  markets;

     -    our  ability to develop, introduce and market new products on a timely
          basis;

     -    market  acceptance  of  our  products;

     -    our  ability  to  compete  in  the highly competitive statistics, data
          mining  and  knowledge  access  markets;

     -    our  ability  to  obtain  government  research  contracts;

     -    our  ability  to  expand  our  sales  and  support  infrastructure;

     -    our  ability  to  maintain  our  relationships  with  key  partners;

     -    our  ability  to  successfully  expand  our  international operations;

     -    our  ability  to  maintain  third-party  licenses;

     -    our  inability  to  protect  our  intellectual  property  rights;

     -    our  ability  to  attract  and retain key employees or management team
          members;  and

     -    general  economic  conditions,  which  may  affect  our  customers'
          purchasing  decisions;

     As  a  result of these factors, we cannot predict our revenues and expenses
with certainty, and future product revenues may differ from historical patterns.
It  is  particularly  difficult  to  predict the timing or amount of our license
revenues  because:

     -    our  sales  cycles are lengthy and variable, typically ranging between
          two  and  eight  months  from  our  initial  contact  with a potential
          customer;

     -    for  our  newest  products,  we  have no history by which to gauge the
          sales  cycles  or  acceptance  rates;

     -    a  substantial  portion  of  our sales are completed at the end of the
          quarter  and,  as  a  result,  a  substantial  portion  of our license
          revenues  are  recognized  in  the  last  days  of  a  quarter;

     -    the  amount of unfulfilled orders for our products at the beginning of
          a  quarter  is  typically  small;  and

     -    delay  of  new product releases can result in a customer's decision to
          delay  execution  of a contract or, for contracts that include the new
          release  as  an  element  of  the contract, will result in deferral of
          revenue  recognition  until  such  release.

     Even  though  our revenues are difficult to predict with certainty, we base
our  decisions  regarding  our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends.
Many of our expenses are relatively fixed, and we cannot quickly reduce spending
if  our  revenues are lower than expected. As a result, revenue shortfalls could
result  in  significantly  lower income or greater loss than anticipated for any
given  period,  which  could  result  in  a  decrease  in  our  stock  price.

     IF  POTENTIAL  CUSTOMERS  DO  NOT  CONTINUE  TO PURCHASE THE S-PLUS PRODUCT
     FAMILY,  OUR  REVENUES  AND  OPERATING  RESULTS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

     License  revenues  from  the  S-PLUS product and add-on modules account for
nearly  all  of our license revenues. We expect license revenues from the S-PLUS
product  family  to  continue  to account for a substantial amount of our future
revenues.  As a result, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for
the  S-PLUS  product  family, such as competition or technological change, could
dramatically  affect  our  operating  results.  If we are unable to successfully
deploy  current  versions of the S-PLUS product family and to develop, introduce
and  establish  customer  acceptance  of new and enhanced versions of the S-PLUS
product  family,  our revenues and operating results will be adversely affected.

     IF  WE  ARE  UNABLE  TO PENETRATE NEW END-USER MARKETS WITH OUR CURRENT AND
     FUTURE  PRODUCTS,  THE  GROWTH  OF  OUR  BUSINESS  WILL  BE  LIMITED.

     We  focus  our  statistics  business  on  two  vertical  markets: financial
services  and  pharmaceuticals.  In order to grow our business at a satisfactory
rate, we will need to expand into new end-user markets within these two vertical
markets for our statistics software, and we must simultaneously develop and sell


                                        5
<PAGE>
new  products  that  address  these  and  other  markets.  We  will  need  to
simultaneously  invest  in  the  scalability and deployability of our statistics
product  offerings  and  in  the further development and enhancement of our data
mining  and knowledge access products. These simultaneous investments may strain
our  financial  resources and diffuse management's time and attention. If any of
these  initiatives  fails,  our  business  will  not  grow  and  could  fail.

     IF  WE  ARE  UNSUCCESSFUL  IN  THE  MARKETING  AND  SELLING  OF  INFACT AND
     INSIGHTFUL  MINER,  OUR  REVENUES  AND  OPERATING RESULTS WILL BE ADVERSELY
     AFFECTED.

     We  cannot  predict  the  degree  to  which our newest products, InFact and
Insightful  Miner,  will  achieve  market acceptance or the extent to which they
will  perform  as  our customers expect.  If our new products contain defects or
errors,  or otherwise do not operate as expected, their market acceptance may be
delayed or limited, and our reputation may be damaged.  If our new products such
as  InFact  do  not achieve market acceptance in the timeframe we expect, we may
decide  to  discontinue  further  investment in them.  If we are unsuccessful in
selling  new products such as InFact, the growth of our business will be limited
and  our  revenues  and  operating  results  will  be  adversely  affected.

     MANY  POTENTIAL  CUSTOMERS  ARE  NOT YET AWARE OF THE BENEFITS OF KNOWLEDGE
     ACCESS  SOLUTIONS  UTILIZING  RELATIONSHIP  SEARCH  CAPABILITIES,  AND  OUR
     PRODUCTS  MAY  NOT  ACHIEVE  MARKET  ACCEPTANCE.

     The  market  for knowledge access solutions is still emerging and continued
growth  in  demand for and acceptance of these solutions remains uncertain. Even
if  this  market  grows,  businesses  may purchase our competitors' solutions or
develop their own. We intend to spend considerable resources educating potential
customers  not only about our solutions but also about the value of such systems
in  general.  Even with these educational efforts, however, market acceptance of
our  solutions  may  not  increase.  If  our  products  do  not  achieve  market
acceptance,  our  results  will  suffer.

     IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY IN THE STATISTICS, DATA MINING AND
     KNOWLEDGE  ACCESS  MARKETS,  OUR  BUSINESS  WILL  FAIL.

     Our  S-PLUS  product suite targets the statistics and data analysis market.
This market is highly competitive, fragmented and mature. We face competition in
the statistics and data analysis market primarily from large enterprise software
vendors  and  our potential customers' information technology departments. These
departments  may  seek  to  develop  data  analysis solutions that utilize R, an
open-source  software  package  that  performs  operations  similar  to  the "S"
language  that  forms the core of our S-PLUS product. The dominant competitor in
our  industry  is  SAS Institute. Other companies with which we compete include,
but  are  not limited to, SPSS, Inc., StatSoft Inc., Mathworks and Minitab, Inc.
In  addition  to  competition from other statistical software companies, we also
face  competition  from  providers  of  software  for  specific  statistical
applications.

     In  the  data mining and knowledge access markets, we face competition from
many  companies,  including  SAS  Institute,  SPSS,  IBM, NCR, Autonomy, Verity,
Inxight,  ClearForest  and  Iphrase,  many of which are much larger than we are.

     In  addition,  as  we  develop other new products, or attempt to expand our
sales  into  new  vertical  and  end-user  markets,  we may begin competing with
companies  with  whom  we have not previously competed. It is also possible that
new  competitors  will enter the market. An increase in competitive pressures in
our  market  or  our  failure  to  compete  effectively  may  result  in pricing
reductions,  reduced  gross  margins  and  loss  of  market  share.  Many of our
competitors  have  longer  operating histories, greater name recognition, larger
customer  bases  and  significantly  greater financial, technical, marketing and
other  resources than we do. We could also experience competition from companies
in  other sectors of the broader market for business intelligence software, like
providers  of  on-line analytical processing, or OLAP, business intelligence and
analytical  application  software,  as  well as from companies in other sectors.

     OUR  BUSINESS  IS SENSITIVE TO THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH GOVERNMENT FUNDING
     DECISIONS.

     We regularly apply for and are granted research contracts from a variety of
government  agencies  and  funding  programs.  Over the last three fiscal years,
these  contracts have generated from $4.3 to $4.8 million annually in offsets to
our  research  and  development expenses. We may not receive new funded research
contracts  or  any  renewals of government-funded projects currently in process,
and  we  may  decide to cancel or reassign certain ongoing projects that are not
aligned  with  our core business needs. The personnel and other costs associated
with  these  programs  are  relatively  fixed  in  the  short  run, and a sudden
cancellation  or  non-renewal  of  a  major  funding program or multiple smaller
programs  would  be  harmful to our annual results. A substantial portion of the
research  grant money we receive is granted to us based on our status as a small
business,  the  definition  of which varies depending on the individual contract
terms.  If  and  when  the number of our employees or the amount of our revenues
grow  beyond  the limits prescribed in any of these contracts, we will no longer
be  eligible  for  such  research  contracts  and  we will have to incur certain
research  and  development  expenses  without  the  benefit  of  offsets.

     Furthermore, a significant portion of our license revenues come from United
States  government  entities,  as well as institutions, healthcare organizations
and  private businesses that contract with or are funded by government entities.


                                        6
<PAGE>
Government  appropriations processes are often slow and unpredictable and may be
affected  by  factors  outside  of  our  control.  Reductions  in  government
expenditures  and  termination or renegotiation of government-funded programs or
contracts  could  adversely  affect  our  revenue  and  operating  results.

     WE  MAY  BE  UNABLE  TO EXPAND OUR SALES ORGANIZATION, WHICH COULD HARM OUR
     ABILITY  TO  EXPAND  OUR  BUSINESS.

     To  date, we have sold our desktop products primarily through our telesales
department  while  we  have  relied  on  our  field  sales  force  to  sell  our
server-based  solutions  and  place  orders  for  multiple  desktop licenses. We
believe  our  future  revenue  growth  will  depend in large part on recruiting,
training  and  retaining  both  telesales and direct sales personnel. Our growth
will  further  depend  on  expanding  our  indirect distribution channels. These
indirect channels include value added resellers, or VARs, distributors, original
equipment manufacturer, or OEM, partners, system integrators and consultants. If
we  experience  difficulty  in  recruiting and retaining qualified telesales and
direct  sales personnel and in establishing third-party relationships with VARs,
distributors,  OEM  partners  and systems integrators and consultants, our sales
could be reduced or our sales growth limited. Even if we successfully expand our
sales  force  and  other  distribution channels, the expansion may not result in
expected  revenue  growth.

     IF  WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS
     WITH  OUR KEY PARTNERS, OR IF OUR KEY PARTNERS FAIL TO PERFORM, OUR ABILITY
     TO  SELL  OUR  SOLUTION  WILL  BE  LIMITED.

     We  rely  on  our  existing  relationships  with  a number of key partners,
including  system  integrators,  VARs,  distributors  and third-party technology
vendors,  that  are important to worldwide sales and marketing of our solutions.
In  addition,  to  be  successful  and  to more effectively sell our products to
larger  customers,  we  must develop successful new relationships with other key
partners.  These  key  partners  often  provide enterprise software, consulting,
implementation  and  customer  support services, and endorse our solution during
the  competitive  evaluation  stage  of  the  sales  cycle.  Although we seek to
maintain  relationships with our key partners, and to develop relationships with
new  partners,  many  of these existing and potential key partners have similar,
and  often  more established, relationships with our competitors. These existing
and  potential partners, many of which have significantly greater resources than
we  have,  may  in  the  future  market  software products that compete with our
solution  or  reduce or discontinue their relationships with us or their support
of  our  solution.

     OUR  SALES  CYCLE  IS  VARIABLE, AND SALES DELAYS COULD CAUSE OUR OPERATING
     RESULTS  TO  FLUCTUATE,  WHICH  COULD  CAUSE  A DECLINE IN OUR STOCK PRICE.

     An  enterprise's decision to purchase statistics, data mining and knowledge
access software and services is discretionary, involves a significant commitment
of  its  resources  and is influenced by its budget cycles. Our sales cycles are
long  and  variable,  typically  ranging  between  two and eight months from our
initial contact with a potential customer to the issuance of a purchase order or
signing  of  a license or services agreement, although the amount of time varies
substantially  from  customer  to  customer  and  occasionally  sales  require
substantially  more  time.  When  economic  conditions  weaken, sales cycles for
software  products  and  related  services tend to lengthen, and as a result, we
experienced  longer  sales  cycles in 2002 and 2003 and we expect to continue to
experience  longer  sales  cycles  over  the next several quarters. Sales delays
could  cause  our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities
analysts  or  investors,  which  could  result in a decrease in our stock price.

     WE HAVE INCURRED LOSSES IN RECENT PERIODS, AND MAY CONTINUE TO DO SO, WHICH
     COULD  CAUSE  A  DECREASE  IN  OUR  STOCK  PRICE.

     Until  the fourth quarter of 2003, we had posted net losses for each fiscal
quarter  since  the  fourth  quarter of 2001. As of December 31, 2003, we had an
accumulated  deficit  of  over $30 million. In future periods we may not realize
the  anticipated  revenue  increases  from  our  new  product  and  positioning
initiatives.  In  addition,  we  may  be  unable to achieve cost savings without
adversely  affecting  our business and operating results. We may also experience
losses  and  negative cash flows in the near term, even if sales of our products
and  services  continue  to  grow.

     We  believe  that  we  may  need  to  significantly  increase  our  product
development  and professional services efforts to expand our market position and
further  increase acceptance of our products. We may not be able to increase our
revenues  sufficiently  to keep pace with these growing expenditures, if at all,
and  as  a  result  may  be  unable  to achieve or maintain profitability in the
future.  In addition, if we are unable to grow our revenues, we may be forced to
discontinue  certain research and/or development projects, which could limit our
future  product  development  opportunities.

     IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN EFFECTIVE INTERNAL FINANCIAL AND MANAGERIAL SYSTEMS,
     CONTROLS  AND  PROCEDURES,  OUR  RESULTS  OF  OPERATIONS  MAY  BE ADVERSELY
     AFFECTED.

     We  face  the  risk  that our systems, procedures and controls might not be
adequate  to  support  our operations, maintain accountability for our assets or
ensure  proper  identification  of,  and  proper  accounting  treatment for, our


                                        7
<PAGE>
activities.  Our  failure  to  maintain  and  implement  such  adequate systems,
procedures  and  controls  could adversely our business, financial condition and
results  of  operations.

     -    In  late  2003,  we  uncovered  a theft by an employee and launched an
          internal  investigation  to  determine  the  extent  of the loss. As a
          result of our investigation, we determined that the theft had occurred
          over  a  period  of  several years. We ultimately concluded that while
          there  was no material impact on earnings in any period, approximately
          $100,000 of expense in each of 2003 and 2002 needed to be reclassified
          to  general  and  administrative  expense  from several other cost and
          expense  categories.

     -    Due  to  challenges  that  we  faced during the completion of our 2003
          financial  statement  close  process,  , our independent auditors have
          recommended that we initiate a study of our financial close processes,
          procedures  and  controls  in order to enhance the quality, efficiency
          and  timeliness  of  our financial statement preparation and to ensure
          proper  identification  and  accounting  treatment for our activities.

We  continue  to  evaluate our operational, financial and accounting systems and
our  managerial controls and procedures to determine what additional changes, if
any,  might  help  us  to  manage  our  current  operations  better.

     IF  WE DO NOT EXPAND OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND SUCCESSFULLY OVERCOME
     THE  RISKS INHERENT IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES, THE GROWTH OF OUR
     BUSINESS  WILL  BE  LIMITED.

     To  be  successful, we must continue to expand our international operations
and  enter  new international markets. This expansion may be delayed as a result
of  operating  expense reduction measures and general economic conditions. If we
do  expand internationally, it will require significant management attention and
financial resources to successfully translate and localize our software products
to  various languages and to develop direct and indirect international sales and
support channels. Even if we successfully translate our software and develop new
channels, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand
for  our solutions. We, or our VARs or distributors, may be unable to sustain or
increase  international  revenues  from licenses or from consulting and customer
support.  In addition, our international sales are subject to the risks inherent
in  international  business  activities,  including

     -    costs  of  customizing  products  for  foreign  countries;

     -    export  and  import  restrictions,  tariffs  and other trade barriers;

     -    the  need  to  comply with multiple, conflicting and changing laws and
          regulations;

     -    reduced  protection  of  intellectual  property  rights  and increased
          liability  exposure;  and

     -    regional  economic,  cultural  and political conditions, including the
          direct  and  indirect effects of terrorist activity and armed conflict
          in  countries  in  which  we  do  business.

     Our  foreign  subsidiaries operate primarily in local currencies, and their
results are translated into U.S. dollars. We do not currently engage in currency
hedging  activities, but we may do so in the future. Changes in the value of the
U.S.  dollar relative to foreign currencies increased both our European revenues
and  expenses  in  2003.  Our operating results could be materially harmed if we
enter  into  license  or service agreements providing for significant amounts of
foreign  currencies  with  extended  payment  terms  or  extended implementation
timeframes if the values of those currencies fall in relation to the U.S. dollar
over  the  payment  period  of  the  agreement.

     DELIVERY  OF  OUR  SOLUTION MAY BE DELAYED IF WE CANNOT CONTINUE TO LICENSE
     THIRD-PARTY  TECHNOLOGY  THAT  IS  IMPORTANT  TO  THE  FUNCTIONALITY OF OUR
     SOLUTION.

     We  incorporate  into  our  products  software  that  is  licensed to us by
third-party  software  developers. The third-party software currently offered in
conjunction  with  our  solution may become obsolete or incompatible with future
versions  of  our  products.  Further,  numerous  individual  and  institutional
licensors  have contributed software code to S-PLUS in exchange for little or no
consideration,  and  some  of these third parties may choose to revise or revoke
their  licensing terms with us. A significant interruption in the supply of this
technology  could  delay  our  sales  until  we  can find, license and integrate
equivalent  technology.  This  could  take a significant amount of time, perhaps
several  months,  which  would  cause  our  operating  results to fall below the
expectations of securities analysts or investors and result in a decrease in our
stock  price

     INTEGRATION OF FUTURE ACQUISITIONS MAY BE DIFFICULT AND DISRUPTIVE.


                                        8
<PAGE>
     We  have  completed  several  acquisitions of businesses with complementary
technologies or service offerings.  In addition to our acquisition of Predict AG
in  Switzerland  in  September  2001,  we  acquired the statistics businesses of
Waratah Corporation in North Carolina in July 2001, GraS Graphische Systeme GmbH
in  Germany in July 2001 and Sigma-Plus SA in France in July 2001. We have since
closed  the  operation  in  Germany and have lost certain key personnel acquired
with  Predict  AG  in  Switzerland.  In  the  future,  we may acquire additional
complementary  companies  or  technologies.  Managing  these  acquisitions  has
entailed, and may in the future entail, numerous operational and financial risks
and  strains,  including

     -    dilution  of  stockholders'  equity;

     -    Difficulty  and  cost  in  combining  the  operations and personnel of
          acquired  businesses  with  our  operations  and  personnel;

     -    disruption  of our ongoing business and diversion of management's time
          and  attention  to  integrating  or  completing  the  development  or
          commercialization  of  any  acquired  technologies;

     -    impairment  of relationships with key customers of acquired businesses
          due to changes in management and ownership of the acquired businesses;

     -    impairment  of  goodwill  arising  as  a result of completed or future
          acquisitions,  resulting  in  a  financial  loss;  and

     -    inability  to  retain  key  employees  of  any  acquired  businesses.

     If  we  do not successfully integrate any technologies, products, personnel
or  operations of companies that we may acquire in the future, our business will
be  harmed.


     CONTINUED  DECREASES  IN SERVICE REVENUES COULD DECREASE OUR TOTAL REVENUES
     OR  DECREASE  OUR  GROSS MARGINS, WHICH COULD CAUSE A DECREASE IN OUR STOCK
     PRICE.

     During  2003,  our  services  revenues  decreased  31%  from  the  prior
twelve-month  period. Consulting and training (service) revenues represented 17%
of  our  total  revenues for the year ended December 31, 2003, and we anticipate
that  service  revenues  will continue to decline in the near term. As a result,
our  total  revenues  may  fall  in  2004.


     OUR  WORKFORCE  REDUCTIONS  AND  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MAY PLACE ADDITIONAL
     STRAIN  ON  OUR  RESOURCES  AND  MAY HARM THE MORALE AND PERFORMANCE OF OUR
     PERSONNEL  AND  OUR  ABILITY  TO  HIRE  NEW  PERSONNEL.

     In  connection  with  our effort to streamline our operations, reduce costs
and  bring  our  staffing  and  structure  in  line  with  our  revenue base, we
restructured  our  organization with reductions in our workforce by 23 employees
in  July  2003.  Further  reductions  could  occur  if we are unable to grow our
revenues.  There  have  been and may continue to be substantial costs associated
with  the  workforce  reduction  related to severance and other employee-related
costs,  and our restructuring plan may yield unanticipated consequences, such as
attrition  beyond  our  planned reduction in workforce. In addition, many of the
employees  who  were  terminated  possessed specific knowledge or expertise, and
that  knowledge or expertise may prove to have been important to our operations.
In  that case, their absence may create significant difficulties. Past or future
reductions  in  Research  and  Development could adversely affect our ability to
innovate  and  compete.  Further, the reduction in workforce may reduce employee
morale  and  may create concern among potential and existing employees about job
security  at  Insightful,  which  may lead to difficulty in hiring and increased
turnover  in  our  current  workforce. In addition, this headcount reduction may
subject us to the risk of litigation, which could result in substantial costs to
us  and  could  divert  management's  time  and  attention  away  from  business
operations.  Any  further  workforce  reductions  may  significantly  strain our
operational  and  financial  resources  and  may  result  in  increasing
responsibilities  for each of our management personnel. As a result, our ability
to  respond  to  unexpected  challenges may be impaired, and we may be unable to
take  advantage  of  new  opportunities.

     WE  MAY  BE UNABLE TO OBTAIN THE FUNDING NECESSARY TO SUPPORT THE EXPANSION
     OF  OUR  BUSINESS.

     Our  future  revenues  may  be  insufficient to support the expenses of our
operations  and  the expansion of our business. We may therefore need additional
equity  or  debt capital to finance our operations. If we are unable to generate
sufficient  cash  flow  from  operations  or  to obtain funds through additional
financing,  we  may  have to reduce some or all of our development and sales and
marketing  efforts  and limit the expansion of our business or cease operations.

     We  believe  that our existing cash and cash equivalents and available bank
borrowings  will  be  sufficient  to  meet  the capital requirements of our core
business  for  at  least  the  next  twelve months. However, if during that time
market  conditions  worsen,  or  if other unforeseen events should occur, we may


                                        9
<PAGE>
need  additional  funds through public or private equity financing or from other
sources  in  order to fund our operations and pursue our growth strategy. If our
new  products  require substantial investment in order to make them commercially
viable,  we  may  need  to  seek  additional  funding  or  we  may  be forced to
discontinue  further  investment  in  them. We have no commitment for additional
financing,  and  we  may experience difficulty in obtaining funding on favorable
terms,  if  at  all.

     Our  credit  line  and equipment term loan with Silicon Valley Bank contain
covenants  that  require  us  to  maintain  a  certain  level of net income. Any
additional  financing  we obtain may contain covenants that restrict our freedom
to  operate our business or may require us to issue securities that have rights,
preferences  or  privileges  senior  to  our  common  stock  and may dilute your
ownership  interest  in  us.

     WORLD  EVENTS  AND  ECONOMIC  CONDITIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR REVENUE
     GROWTH  AND  ABILITY  TO  FORECAST  REVENUE.

     Our  revenue  growth  and potential for profitability depend on the overall
demand  for  statistics  and  data  analysis,  data  mining and knowledge access
software  and  services. Because our sales are primarily to corporate customers,
our business also depends on general economic and business conditions. Continued
soft  demand  for  computer software caused by a weakened economy, both domestic
and  international, may affect our sales and may continue to result in decreased
revenues.  As  a result of the economic downturn, we may experience difficulties
in  collecting  outstanding  receivables  from  our  customers.

     PRIVACY AND SECURITY CONCERNS MAY LIMIT THE EFFECTIVENESS OF AND REDUCE THE
     DEMAND  FOR  OUR  SOLUTION.

     The  effectiveness  of  our  solution relies on the storage and use of data
collected  from  various sources, including personal information. The collection
and  use  of such data by our customers for customer profiling may raise privacy
and  security concerns, especially in pharmaceutical markets where companies are
subject  to  the  strict privacy requirement of the Health Insurance Portability
and  Privacy  Act  of  1996.  Our  customers generally have implemented security
measures  to  protect  customer  data  from  disclosure or interception by third
parties.  However,  the  security  measures  may  not  be  effective against all
potential  security  threats.  If  a  well-publicized  breach  of  customer data
security  were  to  occur,  our  products and solutions may be perceived as less
desirable,  which  could  limit  our  revenue  growth.

     In  addition, due to privacy concerns, some Internet commentators, consumer
advocates  and  governmental or legislative bodies have suggested legislation to
limit  the  use  of customer profiling technologies. The European Union and some
European countries have already adopted some restrictions on the use of customer
profiling  data.  If  major  countries  or  regions  adopt  legislation or other
restrictions  on  the use of customer profiling data, our solution would be less
useful  to  customers,  and  our  sales  could  decrease.

     IF  WE  DO  NOT RETAIN OUR KEY EMPLOYEES OR MANAGEMENT TEAM, OUR ABILITY TO
     EXECUTE  OUR  BUSINESS  STRATEGY  WILL  BE  LIMITED.

     Our  future performance will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of
our  key  technical, sales, customer support and managerial personnel and on our
ability  to  attract  and  retain  them. In addition, our ability to execute our
business  strategy  will depend on our ability to recruit additional experienced
senior  managers and to retain our existing executive officers. We may be unable
to  attract  and  retain  such  personnel  in  the  future.  In addition, due to
competition for qualified employees, we may be required to increase the level of
compensation paid to existing and new employees, which could materially increase
our  operating  expenses.  Our key employees are not obligated to continue their
employment  with  us  and  could  leave  at  any  time.


     RAPID  CHANGES  IN  TECHNOLOGY  COULD  RENDER  OUR  PRODUCTS  OBSOLETE  OR
     UNMARKETABLE,  AND  WE MAY BE UNABLE TO INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
     SUCCESSFULLY  AND  IN  A  TIMELY  MANNER.

     The  business  software  market  is  characterized  by  rapid change due to
changing  customer  needs,  rapid  technological  developments  and  advances
introduced  by  competitors.  Existing  products  can  become  obsolete  and
unmarketable  when  products  using  new  technologies  are  introduced  and new
industry  standards  emerge. New technologies, including the rapid growth of the
Internet and commercial acceptance of open source software, could change the way
software  is  sold  or  delivered.  We may also need to modify our products when
third  parties change software that we integrate into our products. As a result,
the  life  cycles  of  our  products  are  difficult  to  estimate.

     To  be successful, we must continue to enhance our current product line and
develop  new  products  that  successfully  respond  to changing customer needs,
technological developments and competitive product offerings. We may not be able
to  successfully  develop  or  license  the applications necessary to respond to
these changes, or to integrate new applications with our existing products. Past
or  future  reductions in our research and/or development personnel may harm our
ability  to  innovate and compete.  We may not be able to introduce enhancements
or  new  products  successfully or in a timely manner in the future. If we delay
release  of  our  products  and product enhancements, or if they fail to achieve
market acceptance when released, it could harm our reputation and our ability to
attract  and  retain  customers,  and  our  revenues  may  decline. In addition,
customers  may  defer or forego purchases of our products if we, our competitors
or  major  hardware,  systems  or  software  vendors  introduce  or announce new
products  or  product  enhancements.


                                       10
<PAGE>
     WE  MAY  BE  UNABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, WHICH MAY
     LIMIT  OUR  ABILITY  TO  COMPETE  EFFECTIVELY.

     Our  success  depends  in  part  on  our ability to protect our proprietary
rights,  including  our  "S"  programming  language  purchased  from  Lucent
Technologies  in  January  2004.  To  protect  our  proprietary  rights, we rely
primarily  on  a  combination  of  patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark
laws, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties and protective
contractual  provisions  such  as  those  contained  in  license agreements with
consultants, vendors and customers, although we have not signed these agreements
in  every  case.  Despite  our  efforts  to  protect  our  proprietary  rights,
unauthorized  parties  may  copy  aspects  of  our  products  and obtain and use
information  that  we  regard  as  proprietary.  Generally, our products are not
physically  copy-protected. In order to retain exclusive ownership rights to all
software  developed  by us, we license all software and provide it in executable
code  only,  with  contractual  restrictions  on  copying,  disclosure  and
transferability.  As  is  customary  in  the  industry, we generally license our
products  to  end-users  by  use of a 'shrink-wrap' license. Certain specialized
products  may utilize a written, signed license agreement with the customer. The
source  code  for  most  of  our  products is protected as a trade secret and as
unpublished  copyrighted  work.  Other  parties  may  breach  confidentiality
agreements  and  other protective contracts we have entered into, and we may not
become  aware  of,  or have adequate remedies in the event of, a breach. We face
additional risk when conducting business in countries that have poorly developed
or  inadequately  enforced  intellectual  property  laws. While we are unable to
determine  the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, we expect
piracy  to be a continuing concern, particularly in international markets and as
a  result  of  the  growing  use  of the Internet. In any event, competitors may
independently  develop  similar  or  superior  technologies  or  duplicate  the
technologies we have developed, which could substantially limit the value of our
intellectual  property.

     INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS AND LITIGATION COULD SUBJECT US TO SIGNIFICANT
     LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES AND RESULT IN INVALIDATION OF OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS.

     In  the  future,  we  may  have  to  resort  to  litigation  to protect our
intellectual  property  rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the
validity  and  scope  of  the  proprietary  rights  of  others.  Any litigation,
regardless of its success, would probably be costly and require significant time
and  attention  of  our key management and technical personnel. Although we have
not  been  sued for intellectual property infringement, we may face infringement
claims from third parties in the future. The software industry has seen frequent
litigation over intellectual property rights, and we expect that participants in
the  industry  will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the number
of  products,  services  and competitors grows and the functionality of products
and  services  overlap.  Infringement  litigation  could  also  force  us  to

     -    stop  or  delay  selling,  incorporating  or  using  products  that
          incorporate  the  challenged  intellectual  property;

     -    pay  damages;

     -    enter  into  licensing or royalty agreements, which may be unavailable
          on  acceptable  terms;  or

     -    redesign  products or services that incorporate infringing technology,
          which  we  might not be able to do at an acceptable price, in a timely
          fashion  or  at  all.

     OUR  PRODUCTS MAY SUFFER FROM DEFECTS OR ERRORS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN LOSS
     OF  REVENUES,  DELAYED  OR  LIMITED  MARKET  ACCEPTANCE  OF  OUR  PRODUCTS,
     INCREASED  COSTS  AND  REPUTATIONAL  DAMAGE.

     Software  products as complex as ours frequently contain errors or defects,
especially  when  first  introduced  or  when  new  versions  are  released. Our
customers  are  particularly sensitive to such defects and errors because of the
importance  of accuracy in software used in analyzing data. We have had to delay
commercial release of past versions of our products until software problems were
corrected,  and in some cases have provided product updates to correct errors in
released  products.  Our  new  products  or releases may not be free from errors
after  commercial  shipments  have  begun.  Any errors that are discovered after
commercial  release  could  result  in  loss  of  revenues  or  delay  in market
acceptance,  diversion  of  development  resources,  damage  to  our reputation,
increased  service  and  warranty  costs  or  claims  against  us.

     In addition, the operation of our products could be compromised as a result
of  errors  in the third-party software we incorporate into our software. It may
be  difficult  for  us  to  correct  errors in third-party software because that
software  is  not  in  our  control.


                                       11
<PAGE>
     OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE.

     The  price  of  our common stock has been volatile over the past 12 months.
Our  common  stock reached a high of $4.90 per share on March 4, 2004 and traded
as  low as $0.97 per share on April 30, 2003. As a result of fluctuations in the
price of our common stock, you may be unable to sell your shares at or above the
price  you paid for them. The trading price of our common stock could be subject
to  fluctuations  for  a  number  of  reasons,  including

     -    future  announcements  concerning  us  or  our  competitors;

     -    actual  or  anticipated  quarterly  variations  in  operating results;

     -    changes  in  analysts'  earnings  projections  or  recommendations;

     -    announcements  of  technological  innovations;

     -    the  introduction  of  new  products;

     -    changes  in  product  pricing  policies  by  us  or  our  competitors;

     -    loss  of  key  personnel;

     -    proprietary  rights  litigation  or  other  litigation;  or

     -    changes in accounting standards that adversely affect our revenues and
          earnings.

     In  addition,  stock  prices for many technology companies fluctuate widely
for reasons that may be unrelated to operating results of these companies. These
fluctuations, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, such
as national or international currency and stock market volatility, recessions or
military  conflicts, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our
common stock, regardless of our operating performance and may expose us to class
action  securities  litigation  which,  even if unsuccessful, would be costly to
defend  and  distracting  to  management.  In  the  past,  following  periods of
volatility  in  the  market  price  of  a company's securities, securities class
action  litigation has often been instituted against these companies. Litigation
brought  against  us  could  result  in  substantial  costs  and  a diversion of
management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect
on  our  business,  financial  condition  and  operating  results.


ITEM  2.    PROPERTIES.

     Our  headquarters  and  principal  administrative,  finance,  selling  and
marketing  operations  are located in approximately 27,000 square feet of leased
office space in Seattle, Washington under a lease that expires in 2004. In North
America,  we  also  lease  office  space  in  New  York  and North Carolina. Our
international offices are located in France, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
Our  Domestic  Data Analysis and Text Analysis segments share the Seattle leased
office  space  and  we  conduct  business  related  to  both  our  Domestic  and
International  Data  Analysis  segments  from  the  remaining  offices.

ITEM  3.    LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS.

     On December 5, 2003, the Superior Court for King County, Washington granted
summary judgment in our favor, dismissing a wrongful termination lawsuit brought
by  a  former  employee of ours in December 2002.  The employee has subsequently
filed  a notice of appeal with the Court of Appeals for the State of Washington.
An  evaluation  of the likelihood of an adverse outcome cannot be expressed with
sufficient  certainty  at  this  time.

ITEM  4.    SUBMISSION  OF  MATTERS  TO  A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY-HOLDERS.

     No  matters were submitted for a vote of our stockholders during the fourth
quarter  of  the  year  ended  December  31,  2003.


                                       12
<PAGE>
                                     PART II

ITEM  5.     MARKET  FOR  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  EQUITY  AND  RELATED STOCKHOLDER
             MATTERS.

MARKET  INFORMATION

     Our  common  stock is quoted on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market under the symbol
IFUL.  The  following table presents quarterly information on the price range of
the  common  stock. This information indicates the high and low sales prices for
our  common  stock  for  each  full  quarterly period within the two most recent
fiscal  years.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            HIGH    LOW
                                           ------  ------
<S>                                        <C>     <C>
     FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002:
     First Quarter. . . . . . . . . . . .  $3.020  $2.050
     Second Quarter . . . . . . . . . . .  $3.400  $1.990
     Third Quarter. . . . . . . . . . . .  $2.460  $0.880
     Fourth Quarter . . . . . . . . . . .  $1.360  $0.660

     FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003:
     First Quarter. . . . . . . . . . . .  $1.550  $0.930
     Second Quarter . . . . . . . . . . .  $1.500  $0.970
     Third Quarter. . . . . . . . . . . .  $2.370  $1.210
     Fourth Quarter . . . . . . . . . . .  $2.500  $1.750
</TABLE>

HOLDERS

     As  of March 19, 2004, the number of stockholders of record of Common Stock
was  295.  This  figure does not include the number of stockholders whose shares
are  held  of  record by a broker or clearing agency, but does include each such
brokerage  house  or  clearing  agency  as  a  single  holder  of  record.

DIVIDENDS

     We  have  never  paid  any  cash  dividends  on our Common Stock and do not
anticipate  paying  any  cash  dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently
intend  to  retain any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our
business. In addition, the terms of our credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank
prohibit  us  from  paying  dividends.

EQUITY  COMPENSATION  PLAN  INFORMATION

     The  following  table  provides  information  regarding  our  existing
compensation  plans  and  individual compensation arrangements pursuant to which
our  equity  securities  may  be  issued  to  employees, directors, consultants,
advisors  or  other  persons  in  exchange  for  consideration  in  the  form of
services.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                      NUMBER OF SECURITIES TO BE                                        NUMBER OF SECURITIES REMAINING
                        ISSUED UPON EXERCISE OF        WEIGHTED-AVERAGE EXERCISE      AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE ISSUANCE UNDER
                     OUTSTANDING OPTIONS, WARRANT    PRICE OF OUTSTANDING OPTIONS,   EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS (EXCLUDING
                              AND RIGHTS                  WARRANTS AND RIGHTS         SECURITIES REFLECTED IN COLUMN (a))
PLAN CATEGORY                     (a)                             (b)                                 (c)
- -------------------  -----------------------------  -------------------------------  -------------------------------------
<S>                  <C>                            <C>                              <C>
Equity compensation
plans approved by            2,562,498(1)                       $2.2753                            2,788,166
security holders

Total                          2,562,498                        $2.2753                            2,788,166

<FN>
(1)  Issuable under our 1992 Stock Plan, 1992 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, 1996 Non-Qualified, Non-Officer
     Stock  Option  Plan,  2001  Stock Option and Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, and 2001 Non-Employee Director
     Stock Option  Plan,  as  amended  and  restated.
</TABLE>


                                       13
<PAGE>

ITEM 6.    SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA.

     The  selected  financial  data  set  forth  below  was  derived  from  our
consolidated  audited  financial statements. You should read this information in
conjunction  with  the  financial statements and notes in this filing as well as
the  section  of  this  report  entitled Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operation. We closed our Internet division in
September  2000  and sold our engineering and education products division in the
first  quarter of 2001. All selected data reflects the discontinuance of both of
those operations.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                 ----------------------------------------------------
                                                     2003         2002      2001      2000     1999
                                                 -------------  --------  --------  --------  -------
<S>                                              <C>            <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
                                                        (THOUSANDS,  EXCEPT  PER  SHARE  DATA)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS:
Total revenues. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $     17,217   $16,394   $17,426   $15,246   $12,212
Gross profit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        12,727    11,029    11,234    10,739     8,935
Income (loss) from continuing operations. . . .        (1,436)   (3,508)     (698)    1,307       875
Net income (loss) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        (1,573)   (3,081)    2,414    (6,000)    1,453
Basic net income (loss) per share-continuing. .         (0.13)    (0.31)    (0.06)     0.12      0.09
  operations (1)
Diluted net income (loss) per share-continuing.         (0.13)    (0.31)    (0.06)     0.12      0.08
  operations (1)
Basic net income (loss) per share (1) . . . . .         (0.14)    (0.27)     0.22     (0.57)     0.15
Diluted net income (loss) per share (1) . . . .         (0.14)    (0.27)     0.22     (0.54)     0.14


                                                                     AS OF DECEMBER 31,
                                                 ----------------------------------------------------
                                                     2003         2002      2001      2000     1999
                                                 -------------  --------  --------  --------  -------
                                                                         (THOUSANDS)
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET:
Total assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $     13,456   $14,036   $15,695   $10,506   $13,911
Long-term debt, less current portion. . . . . .           161       289         -        39        90
Stockholders' equity. . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3,857     5,437     7,437     3,875     8,634

<FN>
- --------------
(1)  See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for an explanation of the method
     used to calculate basic and diluted net income (loss) per share.
</TABLE>


                                       14
<PAGE>
ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The  following  discussion  and  analysis should be read in conjunction with our
Selected  Financial  Data section, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the
information  described  in  the Business - Important Factors That May Affect Our
Business,  Our  Operating Results and Our Stock Price section included elsewhere
in  this  report.

DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY

     We  provide enterprises with scalable data analysis solutions consisting of
software  and  services  designed  to  facilitate  decision-making  by revealing
patterns,  trends  and  relationships.  We  are a supplier of these software and
services for the statistical analysis, data mining and knowledge access industry
segments  enabling customers to gain intelligence from numerical data and text.

     Our  products  include S-PLUS(R), StatServer(R), S-PLUS Analytic Server(R),
Insightful  Miner,  and  InFact(R) . Our consulting services provide specialized
expertise  and  proven  processes  for the design, development and deployment of
analytical  solutions.

     We  have  been delivering data analysis solutions for 17 years to companies
in  financial  services,  pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, telecommunications and
manufacturing  as  well  as  government  and  research  institutions.

     Headquartered  in  Seattle, Washington, we also have North American offices
in New York and North Carolina. Our international offices are located in France,
Switzerland,  and  the  United  Kingdom,  with  distributors  around  the world.

BUSINESS OUTLOOK

     We  provide  our customers with useful and innovative software and services
to  derive  intelligence  from  the data they collect. Several converging trends
point  to  a  significant  long-term  potential  for  the data analysis software
market.  First,  organizations  currently collect far more data, in a variety of
formats,  than  they  actually analyze. Second, increasing amounts of additional
information  are  being  collected  by  organizations.  Third, organizations are
seeking  to  apply  new  and  increasingly  complex analytic techniques to their
ever-increasing  collection of data in order to gain significant improvements in
the  quality  and  efficacy  of  products  built,  marketed,  and  sold  and  to
improvements in the efficiency of business processes. Overall, the confluence of
these  trends should result in significant long-term potential for data analysis
software  companies  such  as  Insightful.

     Our  product  direction  for  the  S-PLUS Product Family mirrors these data
analysis industry trends.  Our focus has been, and will continue to be, to build
on  S-PLUS'  position  as  a  leader  for statistical model prototyping and data
visualization  used extensively by individual statisticians building statistical
models.  Our  vision  is  to  continually  enhance  the S-PLUS product family to
provide  a  seamless  environment  where sophisticated business analytics can be
developed  on  the  desktop  and then deployed to production on servers handling
many  gigabytes  of  data  and deployed to hundreds and even thousands of users,
without  the  need for expensive re-implementation.  We will increasingly enable
S-PLUS  programmers  and other IT professionals to use the S-PLUS product family
to deploy analytic applications to mission critical production environments.

     Our  direction  also  involves tailoring our solutions to meet the needs of
certain  market  segments.  Throughout our history, we have, to varying degrees,
tailored  our  data analysis solutions to the needs of the following industries:
securities  and  banking,  life  sciences,  manufacturing,  telecommunications,
environmental,  and  defense/intelligence.  Our  largest efforts have focused on
life  sciences  and  financial  services.  We also serve the academic community,
though  our  objective  there  is not to drive short-term increased revenues but
rather  seed  for  future  commercial  sales.  Since  we  are seeing more of our
customers  explore  and adopt open-source data analysis technologies, instead of
purchasing  commercial  software  products, our direction involves extending our
products to provide increasing value add in the form of scaling to large amounts
of  data  as  well as tailored to specific vertical markets. We are focusing our
resources  on  higher-value  initiatives  in the three industries that currently
account  for the majority of our revenues: life sciences, securities and banking
for  data  analysis,  and  defense/intelligence.

     We  will  continue to invest in both our existing and new products, as well
as  in  expanding our sales and marketing efforts. We anticipate that our growth
will  primarily be driven by software license revenues and that our professional
services  revenue  will  remain  flat  or  even decline somewhat. Growth for our
software  license  and  maintenance  revenues  will  be  driven primarily by our
high-end products, Insightful Miner, S-PLUS Server, and our vertical application
modules such as S+Finmetrics and S+Array Analyzer.


                                       15
<PAGE>
REVIEW  OF  ACCOUNTING  PRACTICES

     On, March 31, 2004, we filed a Form 12b-25 notification of late filing with
the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the filing of this annual
report,  and  disclosed  that  during  the  audit  process,  management made our
independent auditors aware of specific allegations made by a former employee who
was  terminated  in  the  first  quarter  of  2002,  and who filed a lawsuit for
wrongful  termination  against us in December 2002. In an April 2003 deposition,
the  former  employee alleged, among other things, that we improperly recognized
services revenues in 2001 and 2002. While we had performed an internal review of
the  specific  allegations  made in the deposition in April and May of 2003, our
independent  auditors  recommended  further review of the projects identified in
the  deposition  and  recommended that management perform additional analysis to
satisfy  itself  that the consolidated financial statements are fairly presented
for  the  entire audit period. Accordingly, we delayed the filing of this annual
report  in  order  to allow time to complete an independent investigation of the
projects  identified  in the deposition. The investigation efforts were directed
by  the  audit  committee  of our board, and carried out by our outside law firm
with  our  full cooperation. Based on the investigation, our audit committee has
determined, with the advice of management, that our financial statements for the
2001  and  2002 years, and for the quarters included therein, present fairly, in
all  material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial  position,  results  of
operations,  and  cash  flows  of  the  Company  in  conformity  with accounting
principles  generally  accepted  in  the  United  States.

CRITICAL  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES  AND  ESTIMATES

     We  have  based  our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and
results  of  operations  upon  our consolidated financial statements, which have
been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make
estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues  and  expenses,  and  related  disclosure  of  contingent  assets  and
liabilities.  On an on-going basis, we evaluate our critical accounting policies
and  estimates,  including  those  related  to  revenue  recognition, bad debts,
intangible  assets,  restructuring,  asset  impairment,  and  contingencies  and
litigation.  We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other
assumptions  that  we  believe  to  be  reasonable  under the circumstances, the
results  of  which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values
of  assets  and  liabilities  that  are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual  results  may  differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
conditions.  We  believe  the  following critical accounting policies affect the
more  significant  judgments  and  estimates  used  in  the  preparation  of our
consolidated financial statements.

  Revenue Recognition

     Our  revenue  recognition  policy is significant because our revenues are a
key component of our results of operations. We follow very specific and detailed
guidelines,  discussed  in  Note  2  of  the  financial statements, in measuring
revenues.

     We  derive  our  revenues  primarily  from three sources: license revenues,
which consist of software license fees, maintenance revenues, consisting of fees
for  maintenance  and  support,  and  professional  services revenues, which are
comprised of fees for consulting and training. The revenue recognition rules for
software  companies  are complex and require our management to exercise judgment
and  make  a  number  of  estimates.  For example, many of our contracts contain
multiple  element  arrangements,  which  require  us  to  make  assumptions  and
judgments  in  order  to  allocate the total price among the various elements we
must deliver, to determine whether vendor specific evidence of fair value exists
for each element, to determine if undelivered elements are deemed essential, and
to  determine whether and when each element has been delivered. We also evaluate
whether  there  is any material risk of customer non-payment or product returns.
If  we  were  to  change any of these assumptions or judgments, it could cause a
material  increase  or  decrease  in  the  amount of revenue that we report in a
particular  period.  Revenue  that we cannot recognize in a particular period is
reflected  on  our balance sheet as deferred revenue and recognized over time as
the  applicable  revenue recognition criteria are satisfied. These estimates are
made  based  upon  all  of the information available to us at the time. Material
differences  may  result  in  the amount and timing of our revenue for any given
period  if  different  judgments  are  made  or  different  estimates  are used.

  Sales  Returns

     We  provide an estimated reserve for return rights at the time of sale.  We
offer  our customers a 30-day return policy on all of our products.  Refunds are
provided  to  customers  upon  return  to  us  of  the complete product package,
including  all  original  materials,  CD-ROM  or other media.  Our provision for
sales  returns  is  estimated  based  on  historical  returns experience and our
judgment  of  future  return  risk.

  Bad  Debts


                                       16
<PAGE>
     A  considerable  amount of judgment is required when we assess the ultimate
realization  of  receivables.  It  is  a  significant  estimate and is regularly
evaluated  taking  into  consideration  past  experience,  current  economic
conditions,  aging  of  the  amounts,  and the current credit-worthiness of each
customer.  Customer  credit  worthiness  is subject to many business and finance
risks  facing  each  customer  and  is  subject  to  sudden  changes.

  Impairment  of  Goodwill  and  Other  Long  Lived  Assets

     At least annually we evaluate goodwill arising from acquired businesses for
potential  impairment  indicators.  Our  judgments  regarding  the  existence of
impairment indicators are based on legal factors, market conditions and expected
future  operational  performance of our acquired businesses. In 2002 we recorded
an  $800,000  impairment  of  goodwill  and  in  2003  we recorded an additional
$462,000 impairment based upon our estimates of the discounted future cash flows
of  our  acquired  businesses.  Future  events  could  cause us to conclude that
additional  impairment  indicators  exist  and that goodwill associated with our
acquired  business  is  impaired.

     Impairment  losses  will be charged to earnings in the period in which they
are identified. We will continue to evaluate goodwill for impairment and, should
an  impairment  be  indicated,  the  corresponding  charge will be taken in that
period.  Separable  intangible  assets  that  do  not  have indefinite lives are
amortized  over  their  useful  lives.

  Contingencies

     We are engaged in legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business.
We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to
these  matters  as well as potential ranges of possible losses.  A determination
of  the  amount  of  reserves required, if any, for these contingencies are made
after careful analysis of each individual matter.  The required reserves if any,
may  change  in  the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in
approach,  such  as  a  change  in settlement strategy for a particular matter.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     On  January  23,  2001,  we  sold  the  operations  of  our Engineering and
Education  Products Division, or EEPD, for cash proceeds of $7,000,000 resulting
in  a gain of $3,849,000 recorded in 2001, and a $427,000 gain recorded in 2002.

     Components of the net aggregate gain are included in the table below. As of
December  31,  2001,  other  accrued liabilities included approximately $360,000
related  to  a  contingency  resulting from the disposition. The contingency was
resolved  favorably during 2002 reducing other accrued liabilities from $585,000
to  $258,000  and  income  taxes from $140,000 to $40,000 resulting in a gain of
$427,000.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                                 <C>
     Cash proceeds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $ 7,000,000
     Net assets transferred. . . . . . . . . . . .   (1,002,000)
     Employee severance and termination benefits .     (853,000)
     Transaction costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (571,000)
     Other accrued liabilities . . . . . . . . . .     (258,000)

     Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      (40,000)
                                                    ------------
          Income from discontinued operations. . .  $ 4,276,000
                                                    ============
</TABLE>


                                       17
<PAGE>
     The  2001  loss  from discontinued operations consist of EEPD's revenues of
$74,000  offset by costs and expenses of $811,000 for the period through January
23,  2001,  the  date  of  disposition.  The  loss  recorded  in 2003 related to
previously unidentified third party contractual commitments of EEPD. The amounts
were not material to the periods in which they applied, primarily 1999 and 2000.
We  believe  that  all  significant  contingencies  relating to the discontinued
operations have now been resolved.

ACQUISITIONS

     In  July  2001,  we completed the acquisition of a data analysis consulting
business  from  Waratah  Corporation. This acquisition provides us with expanded
resources  and  expertise  in  the  pharmaceutical and healthcare markets, while
establishing  an  East  Coast consulting office. The aggregate purchase price of
$303,000  consisted  of  $150,000 cash, common stock valued at $99,000, a common
stock  warrant  valued  at  $41,000 and direct transaction costs of $13,000. The
value  of  the  34,530 shares of common stock issued was determined based on the
average  market  price  of  our  common stock over a three-day period before and
after  the date of acquisition. The warrant (to purchase 20,000 shares of common
stock,  at an exercise price of $2.90, and expiring on July 13, 2006) was valued
using  the  Black-Scholes  model.  We recorded an intangible asset for the value
allocated  to  non-compete  agreements  of  $44,000,  which  was  amortized on a
straight-line  basis  over  a two-year period, representing the expected life of
the non-compete agreements that we acquired. The difference between the purchase
price  and  the  fair value of the assets acquired in the amount of $240,000 has
been  recorded  as  goodwill.

     In  July  2001,  we also completed the formation of a French subsidiary and
acquired the data analysis operations of Sigma-Plus, our longtime distributor in
France. The formation of a French subsidiary provided us with an expanded direct
sales  channel  and  local  consulting expertise in both Paris and Toulouse. The
aggregate  purchase  price  of  $255,000  consisted  of $212,000 cash and direct
transaction  costs  of  $43,000.  We  recorded an intangible asset for the value
allocated  to  non-compete  agreements  of  $51,000,  which  were amortized on a
straight-line  basis  over  a two-year period, representing the expected life of
the non-compete agreements that we acquired. The difference between the purchase
price  and  the  fair value of the assets acquired in the amount of $203,000 was
recorded  as  goodwill.  In  the  fourth  quarter of 2003, when we performed our
annual  impairment  analysis,  we  determined  that  a  loss  from impairment of
goodwill  of  $203,000 was indicated based on our updated assumptions for future
cash  flows. This analysis resulted in the write-down of all goodwill originally
recorded  in  this  transaction.

     In  September  2001,  we completed the acquisition of Predict AG (Predict).
This  acquisition  provided  us  with a multi-lingual professional services team
consisting of a multi-lingual team of business and technical experts in analytic
CRM,  business intelligence, data mining, data warehousing, predictive modeling,
and statistical analysis. The organization has also formed the core team for our
central European office, which focuses primarily on Switzerland and Germany. The
aggregate  consideration  paid  was  $2,214,000  consisting  of $1,466,000 cash,
common  stock  valued  at $691,000, and direct transaction costs of $57,000. The
value  of  the 300,000 shares of common stock issued was determined based on the
average  market  price  of  our  common stock over a three-day period before and
after  the  date  of  acquisition.  We  recorded intangible assets for the value
allocated  to  non-compete  agreements  and  customer  relationships  totaling
$215,000,  which were amortized on a straight-line basis over a two-year period,
representing  the  expected life of the non-compete agreements that we acquired.
We  recorded  $426,000  for  the  value  allocated  to  deferred  stock-based
compensation  in  connection with restrictions on 185,010 shares of common stock
otherwise  issuable as part of the acquisition, which was being amortized over a
three-year vesting period using a graded vesting approach. However, in the first
quarter  of  2003, our European General Manager resigned prior to the expiration
of  the  restriction on his shares.  Consequently, these shares were returned to
us  and  related stock-based compensation expense recognized in previous periods
was reversed resulting in a reduction in sales and marketing expense of $139,000
in  2003.  As of December 31, 2003, all employees in receipt of restricted stock
had terminated. The difference between the purchase price for Predict AG and the
fair  value  of  the assets acquired in the amount of $1,374,000 was recorded as
goodwill.

     During  2002  the  continued  decline  in  the  market  for IT software and
services prompted a re-assessment of all key assumptions underlying our goodwill
valuation  judgments,  including  those  related to short and longer term growth
rates. In the fourth quarter of 2002, using an October 1, 2002 measurement date,
we  performed  our  annual  impairment  analysis and determined that a loss from
impairment  of goodwill of $800,000 was required. This resulted primarily from a
decline  in  the  service revenues for our Swiss operations due to weak economic
conditions,  which caused the forecasted undiscounted cash flows to be less than
the book value of Predict. In the fourth quarter of 2003, when we next performed
our  annual  impairment  analysis,  we  determined  that  an  additional loss of
$259,000  was  indicated based on our updated assumptions for future cash flows,
which  reflected  reduced  growth  rates  based on our economic outlook for that
region. Due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy
and  product  portfolio,  it  is  possible  that  forecasts  used to support our
intangible  assets  may  change  in the future, which could result in additional
non-cash  charges  that  would  adversely  affect  our results of operations and
financial condition.


                                       18
<PAGE>
     In  January  2002,  we  acquired  the  data  analysis  operations  of  GraS
Graphische  Systeme  GmbH,  or  GraS,  our  longtime distributor in Germany. The
transaction  provided  us  with  an  expanded  direct  sales channel in Germany.
Consideration  for  the  acquisition  was  cash  of  $157,000.  We  recorded  an
intangible  asset  for the value allocated to customer relationships of $31,000,
which  was  amortized  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  a  two-year  period,
representing  the  expected life of the customer relationships that we acquired.
The  difference  between  the  purchase  price  and the fair value of the assets
acquired  in  the  amount of $126,000 was recorded as goodwill. In July 2003, we
combined our German operations with our Swiss subsidiary headquartered in Basel,
Switzerland and closed the German office. At that time we evaluated the goodwill
acquired  in  the  acquisition of our German and Swiss businesses for impairment
and  determined  that  none  had  occurred.

     The  remaining  goodwill  recorded in connection with these acquisitions is
not  subject  to  amortization,  but  is  subject  to  periodic  evaluation  for
impairment.

     The  results of GraS, Predict, Waratah and Sigma Plus have been included in
our  operating  results  since  their  respective  acquisition  dates.


                                       19
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
RESULTS  OF  OPERATIONS

     As  an  aid  to  understanding  our operating results, the table below indicates the percentage relationships of revenue and
expense items included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, and the
percentage  changes  in  those  items  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2003,  2002,  and  2001.

                                                                                                 PERCENTAGE CHANGE
                                                PERCENT OF TOTAL REVENUE            FISCAL YEAR     FISCAL YEAR     FISCAL YEAR
                                                ------------------------               ENDED           ENDED           ENDED
                                                                        FISCAL     DEC. 31, 2003   DEC. 31, 2002   DEC. 31, 2001
                                        FISCAL            FISCAL      YEAR ENDED    COMPARED TO     COMPARED TO     COMPARED TO
                                      YEAR ENDED        YEAR ENDED     DEC. 31,      YEAR ENDED      YEAR ENDED      YEAR ENDED
                                     DEC. 31, 2003    DEC. 31, 2002      2001      DEC. 31, 2002   DEC. 31, 2001   DEC. 31, 2000
                                   -----------------  --------------  -----------  --------------  --------------  --------------
<S>                                <C>                <C>             <C>          <C>             <C>             <C>
Revenues:
  Software licenses . . . . . . .              44.4%           37.5%        38.8%           24.3%           (8.9)%          (0.9)%
  Software maintenance. . . . . .              38.6            36.3         29.5            11.5            15.9            19.1
  Professional services and
    other . . . . . . . . . . . .              17.0            26.2         31.7           (31.6)          (22.5)           34.4
                                   -----------------  --------------  -----------  --------------  --------------  --------------
      Total revenues. . . . . . .             100.0           100.0        100.0             5.0            (5.9)           14.3
Cost of revenues:
  Software related. . . . . . . .              11.3            11.1         13.2             6.1           (20.5)            3.8
  Professional services and
    other . . . . . . . . . . . .              14.8            21.6         22.3           (27.9)           (9.2)           56.4
                                   -----------------  --------------  -----------  --------------  --------------  --------------
      Total cost of revenues                   26.1            32.7         35.5           (16.3)          (13.4)           37.4
      Gross profit. . . . . . . .              73.9            67.3         64.5            15.4            (1.9)            4.6
Operating expenses:
  Sales and marketing . . . . . .              40.2            42.7         33.0            (1.2)           21.6            20.2
  Research and development. . . .              37.6            48.3         43.5           (18.3)            4.5             8.4
  Less-Funded research. . . . . .             (25.0)          (28.5)       (27.7)           (7.9)           (3.2)            3.2
                                   -----------------  --------------  -----------  --------------  --------------  --------------
  Research and development,
    Net . . . . . . . . . . . . .              12.6            19.8         15.8           (33.4)           18.1            18.9
  General and administrative. . .              20.6            18.7         17.6            15.8               -            27.5
  Amortization of goodwill
    and other intangibles . . . .               1.2             1.3          0.6               -            98.1            52.9
  Loss from impairment of
    goodwill. . . . . . . . . . .               2.7             4.9            -           (42.2)          100.0               -
  Restructuring-related charges                 5.3             3.0          2.6            81.8            10.1           100.0
                                   -----------------  --------------  -----------  --------------  --------------  --------------
      Total operating
        expenses. . . . . . . . .              82.6            90.4         69.6            (4.1)           22.3            26.7
                                   -----------------  --------------  -----------  --------------  --------------  --------------
      Loss from operations                     (8.7)          (23.2)        (5.1)           60.6          (324.1)         (176.9)
Interest income, net. . . . . . .               1.0             0.6          1.8            76.8           (69.8)           51.0
                                   -----------------  --------------  -----------  --------------  --------------  --------------
      Loss before income
        taxes . . . . . . . . . .              (7.7)          (22.6)        (3.3)           64.1          (536.2)         (142.4)
Income tax provision. . . . . . .              (0.6)           (1.2)         0.7          (152.7)         (274.8)           71.6
                                   -----------------  --------------  -----------  --------------  --------------  --------------
      Loss from continuing
        operations                             (8.3)          (21.4)        (4.0)           59.1          (402.6)         (153.4)
                                   -----------------  --------------  -----------  --------------  --------------  --------------
Discontinued operations:
  Loss from discontinued
    operations, net of applicable
    income taxes. . . . . . . . .              (0.8)              -         (4.2)         (100.0)            100           (89.9)
  Gain on disposal of
    discontinued operations, net
    of tax. . . . . . . . . . . .                 -             2.6         22.1               -           (88.9)          100.0
                                                      --------------  -----------                  --------------  --------------
      Net income or loss. . . . .              (9.1)%         (18.8)%       13.9%           48.9%         (227.6)%         140.2%
                                   =================  ==============  ===========  ==============  ==============  ==============
</TABLE>


                                       20
<PAGE>
REVENUES

     Total  revenues  consist  of  software  license,  software maintenance, and
professional  services  revenues.  Total  revenues decreased from $17,426,000 in
2001  to  $16,394,000 in 2002, a decrease of 6%, and increased to $17,217,000 in
2003,  an  increase  of  5%  from  2002.

     Software  license  revenues,  consisting  of  software  licenses  and
subscriptions,  accounted for 39% of total revenues in 2001, 38% in 2002 and 44%
in  2003.  Software  license  revenues  decreased  from  $6,753,000  in  2001 to
$6,151,000  in  2002,  a decrease of 9%, and increased to $7,645,000 in 2003, an
increase  of  24%. The 2002 decrease was primarily due to dampened demand caused
by  the  economic  slowdown,  which  adversely  affected  corporate  spending on
information technology in many of the industries we serve. The 2003 increase was
primarily  due  to increased European license revenues, primarily as a result of
positive  fluctuations  in  foreign exchange rates,  and an increase in revenues
from  InFact,  for  which  we  first recognized revenue in the fourth quarter of
2002.

     Software  maintenance revenues accounted for 29% of total revenues in 2001,
36%  in  2002  and  39%  in  2003.  Software maintenance revenues increased from
$5,139,000  in 2001 to $5,955,000 in 2002, an increase of 16%, and to $6,641,000
in  2003,  an  increase  of  12%. These increases were due to an increase in our
installed  base  and  ongoing  maintenance  renewals.

     Professional  services  revenues  generated  from  consulting  and training
activities  decreased  from $5,534,000 in 2001 to $4,288,000 in 2002, a decrease
of  23%,  and  to  2,931,000  in 2003, a decrease of 32% from 2002.  In 2002 the
revenue  decrease  in  professional services was primarily due to generally weak
economic  conditions,  resulting  in  fewer  available projects at which time we
reduced  our consulting headcount, particularly in our Swiss office. In 2003 the
revenue  decrease  was primarily due to fewer consulting projects in Switzerland
and  North  America  and  we further reduced our consulting headcount. We expect
professional  services  revenues  to continue to decrease in 2004 as we focus on
aligning  our  services  with  software  license  sale  opportunities.

     Revenues  from  international  operations,  which  include  Europe and Asia
Pacific, increased from $3,963,000 in 2001 to $5,169,000 in 2002, an increase of
30%,  to  $5,488,000 in 2003, an increase of 6%. The 2002 increase resulted from
our international expansion through acquisition, resulting in the formation of a
French  subsidiary  in  July  2001,  a  Swiss subsidiary in September 2001 and a
German  subsidiary  in  January  2002.  The  purpose of the company's aggressive
expansion  in  Europe was to enhance growth and reduce our exposure to the North
American  economy.  The  2003  increase  was  primarily  the result of increased
software  license  revenue  partially  offset  by  lower  professional  service
revenues,  particularly  in  Switzerland.  Most of the increase in revenues from
international  operations  was  attributable to positive fluctuations in foreign
exchange  rates.

     We  expect our license and maintenance revenues to grow in 2004, subject to
the successful launch of new products and continued worldwide economic recovery,
as  we  continue  to  increase  our  sales  and  marketing  resources.

COST  OF  REVENUES

     Total  cost  of revenues decreased from $6,192,000 in 2001 to $5,365,000 in
2002,  a decrease of 13%, and decreased to $4,490,000 in 2003, a decrease of 16%
from  2002.  The  2002 and 2003 decrease in total cost of revenues was primarily
due  to  decreases  in  professional service costs offset somewhat in 2003 by an
increase  in  the  cost  of  software-related  revenue.

     The  cost  of  software-related  revenue,  which  consists of royalties for
third-party  software,  product media, product duplication, manuals and costs of
maintenance,  decreased  as a percentage of total software-related revenues from
19% in 2001, to 15% in 2002, and to 14% in 2003. The 2002 decrease was primarily
due  to  decreased  sales of products with royalty costs while the 2003 decrease
was  primarily  due  to revenue growth exceeding the growth in costs of software
licenses.  Until  January  2004,  we  were  a  worldwide  licensee  of  the  "S"
programming language from Lucent Technologies Inc. Under the license, we had the
right to use, sublicense and support the "S" language in exchange for royalties,
which are included in the cost of software licenses. In January 2004 we acquired
the  copyrights to the software code underlying the "S" Programming language for
$2.0  million  resulting  in  a  cessation  of future royalty payments to Lucent
Technologies.

We  expect  that the cost of software-related revenue will decrease primarily as
the  result  of  a  decrease  in  royalty  costs  due to the January 2004 Lucent
Technologies  agreement,  offset  somewhat  by  the  amortization  cost  of  the
copyright  intangible  asset  which is being amortized over a three year period.


                                       21
<PAGE>

     The cost of professional services consists primarily of salaries, and other
operating  costs  of  employees  who  provide  consulting  services  and product
training.  The  cost  of  professional  services as a percentage of professional
services revenues increased from 70% in 2001, to 82% in 2002 and to 87% in 2003.
The  2002  and  2003  increases  were primarily due to decreases in professional
services  revenue  partially  offset  by  the reduction of professional services
expenses,  which  lagged  the  related  revenue  decrease. We expect the cost of
professional  services to fluctuate with changes in service revenues and for our
services  margin to gradually improve as utilization of existing resources grow.
We  expect  that  the  reductions  in  professional  services  personnel that we
implemented  during  our  restructuring  in  mid-2003  will  help us improve our
service  margins.

OPERATING  EXPENSES

     Sales  and  marketing  expenses  consist  primarily  of  salaries,  travel,
facilities  costs for sales and marketing personnel, promotional activities, and
costs  of  advertising  and  trade  shows.  Sales  and  marketing increased from
$5,759,000  in  2001 to $7,002,000 in 2002, an increase of 22% from 2001, and to
$6,919,000  in  2003, a decrease of 1%. As a percentage of total revenues, sales
and  marketing  expenses increased from 33% in 2001 to 43% in 2002 and decreased
to 40% in 2003. The increase in 2002 over 2001 was primarily due to the addition
of  our  French,  Swiss  and  German  subsidiaries.  The  decrease  in  2003 was
primarily  due to the closing of our German office in July 2003 and reduction in
workforce  in our Swiss office.  In 2004, we expect sales and marketing expenses
to  increase as we allocate more resources to that area, but to remain flat as a
percentage  of  total  revenues.

     Net  research  and  development  expenses consist primarily of salaries and
related  benefits,  equipment  for  software  developers,  facility  costs,  and
payments  to  outside  contractors,  less  funded  research.  Net  research  and
development expenses increased from $2,747,000 in 2001 to $3,244,000 in 2002, an
18%  increase,  and  decreased  to  $2,162,000  in  2003, a decrease of 33%. Net
research and development increased as a percentage of total revenues from 16% in
2001  to  20%  in  2002,  and  decreased  to  13%  in  2003.  Gross research and
development  expenses increased from $7,574,000 in 2001 to $7,918,000 in 2002, a
5%  increase,  and  decreased  18%  to  $6,469,000 in 2003. In 2002 the increase
research  and  development costs was primarily due to an increased investment in
new product offerings, such as Insightful Miner and InFact, and to a decrease in
funded  research.  In 2003, the decrease was primarily attributable to workforce
reductions  implemented  in  July  2002  and  July  2003. Funded research, which
consists  primarily  of  government grants for research projects, decreased from
$4,827,000  in  2001  to  $4,674,000 in 2002, a decrease of 3%, and decreased to
$4,307,000  in  2003,  a  decrease  of  8%.  The  change  in  funded research is
attributable  to  the  number  of awarded contracts as well as to a more focused
approach  of aligning research funding with our core products. We expect our net
research  and development expenses to increase due to both a reduction in funded
research  as  well  as  through  additional  hiring  of  development  personnel.

     General  and  administrative  expenses  consist  primarily  of salaries and
related  costs  associated  with  finance, accounting, investor relations, human
resources,  administration and facilities activities. General and administrative
expenses increased from $3,063,000 in 2001 to $3,074,000 in 2002, an increase of
less  than  1%,  and  increased  to $3,559,000 in 2003, an increase of 16%. As a
percentage of total revenues, general and administrative expenses increased from
18%  in  2001  to  19%  in  2002  and  to  21%  in  2003.  The 2003 increase was
attributable  to  continuing increases in insurance, legal, compliance and audit
expenses.  We  expect  future  increases  in general and administrative expenses
relating  to  continuing  increases  in  legal,  compliance  and audit expenses.

     In  late  2003 we uncovered a theft by an employee and launched an internal
investigation  to  determine  the  extent  of  the  loss.  As  a  result  of our
investigation,  we  determined  that  the  theft  had  occurred over a period of
several  years.  We ultimately concluded that while there was no material impact
on earnings in any period, approximately $100,000 of expense in each of 2003 and
2002  needed  to  be  reclassified  to  general  and administrative expense from
several  other  cost  and  expense  categories. As part of our internal controls
review, we have implemented controls to reduce the risk of this type of incident
reoccurring.

     Amortization  of  stock-based  compensation  expense  consists  of  amounts
related  to  common  stock  issued  in  acquisitions,  which  were  subject  to
cancellation  in  the  event  of  employee termination. Amortization of deferred
stock-based  compensation  was  $44,000 in 2001, $220,000 in 2002 and $34,000 in
2003.  In  addition, in 2003, our European General Manager resigned prior to the
expiration of the restriction on his shares.  Consequently, in 2003 these shares
were  returned  to us and related stock-based compensation expense recognized in
previous  periods  was reversed resulting in a reversal of previously recognized
deferred  stock-based  compensation  expense  of  $139,000  and  a  reduction of
deferred stock-based compensation of $128,000. In 2001, stock-based compensation
expense  was included in the functional operating expense categories as follows:
$28,000  for  sales  and  marketing,  $9,000  for  cost of professional services
revenues,  and  $7,000  for  research  and  development.  In  2002,  stock-based
compensation expense of $111,000 was included in sales and marketing, $79,000 in
cost of professional services revenues, and $30,000 in research and development.
In  2003,  the  net  stock-based  compensation  expense  credit  of $105,000 was
included  in  sales  and  marketing.  The  credit  is  the result of $139,000 in
deferred  stock compensation expense previously recognized being reversed due to
the  return of restricted shares issued in the acquisition of Predict AG, offset
by  deferred  stock  compensation  expense  of  $34,000.


                                       22
<PAGE>
     In  2002,  we  recorded a loss from impairment of $800,000 resulting from a
write-down  of  the  carrying value of goodwill for Predict AG as computed under
FAS  142.  In  2003  we  recorded an additional loss from impairment of $462,000
consisting  of  a  $259,000  write-down  of  the  carrying value of goodwill for
Predict AG and a $203,000 write-down of the carrying value of goodwill for Sigma
Plus.  The 2002 impairment was due to the continued decline in the market for IT
software and services from the September 2001 date of acquisition of Predict and
to  our July 2002 restructuring, which resulted in the termination of nearly 50%
of  the  headcount  in our Swiss office. The 2003 impairment was the result of a
decrease  in  the  discounted  future  cash  flows  from  our  French  and Swiss
subsidiaries  as  computed  under  FAS  142 caused by a reduction in our revenue
growth  expectations  based  on  our  economic  outlook  for  that  region.

RESTRUCTURING-RELATED  CHARGES

     In  November  2001,  July  2002  and  July  2003  we  implemented workforce
reductions  in  order  to  better  align  our  costs with our revenues. The 2001
restructuring  expense  totaled  $455,000  and  resulted  from  the reduction of
approximately  24 employees, or 13% of our employee base at the time. All of the
restructuring  charge related our Domestic Data Analysis segment. As of December
31,  2003,  all  severance  and  termination  benefits related to this workforce
reduction  were  paid.

     The  2002  restructuring  expense  totaled  $501,000  and  resulted  from a
workforce reduction of 31 employees, or 18% of our employee base at the time. Of
the  $501,000  restructuring  charge, $170,000 related to our International Data
Analysis  segment  and  the  remaining $331,000 was attributable to our Domestic
Data Analysis segment. All of the 2002 restructuring charges related to employee
severance  and  termination  benefits.  As of December 31, 2002, $418,000 of the
severance and termination benefits had been paid and $83,000 remained accrued on
that  date,  with  the  remaining  benefits  paid  in  January  2003.

     The  2003  restructuring  expense totaled $911,000 and included a workforce
reduction  of  23  employees,  or  18%  of our employee base at the time. Of the
$911,000  restructuring  charge,  $288,000  related  to  our  International Data
Analysis  segment  and  the  remaining $623,000 was attributable to our Domestic
Data  Analysis  segment. As part of this restructuring, the Company combined its
German operations with its Swiss subsidiary headquartered in Basel, Switzerland.
On  September  30,  2003,  Shawn  Javid,  President  and  CEO, resigned from the
company.  The  2003 restructuring charges, including charges associated with the
resignation  of  Shawn  Javid,  consisted  primarily  of  employee severance and
termination payments and lease termination costs, as well as a $176,000 non-cash
compensation  charge related to a modification of stock options upon termination
of  Mr. Javid. As of December 31, 2003 $321,000 in termination benefits remained
to  be paid, of which $257,000 will be paid in 2004 and the remaining $64,000 in
2005.

INTEREST  INCOME  AND  EXPENSE

     Interest  and  other  income decreased from $341,000 in 2001 to $128,000 in
2002,  and  increased  to  $189,000  in  2003. The decrease in 2002 was due to a
decrease  in  prevailing  interest  rates.  The  increase  in 2003 was primarily
attributable  to  an  exchange  gain  of  $136,000  related  to foreign currency
transactions.

     Interest  expense  increased  from  $27,000 in 2001 to $33,000 in 2002, and
decreased  to  $21,000 in 2003. The higher expense in 2002 was due to borrowings
of  $450,  000  under  an  equipment  term  loan  with Silicon Valley Bank.  The
decrease  in  2003  was  due to the $128,000 principal pay down of the equipment
loan.

INCOME  TAXES

     As  of  December 31, 2003, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards
of  approximately  $22,464,000 and research and development and other tax credit
carryforwards  of  approximately  $2,210,000.  Utilization of net operating loss
carryforwards  may  be  subject  to certain limitations under Section 382 of the
Internal  Revenue  Code.  Deferred  tax assets, which have arisen primarily as a
result  of  these  net  operating  losses and other tax credits also reflect the
effect  of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities
and the corresponding financial statement amounts. Due to the uncertainty of our
ability  to  utilize  its  deferred  tax  assets, a valuation allowance has been
established  for  financial  reporting  purposes  equal to the amount of the net
deferred  tax  assets.

     Income  tax  expense of $115,000 in 2001 reflects the provision for foreign
income  taxes  associated  with  our  international  operations.  The income tax
benefit  in  2002  of  $201,000  primarily relates to a reversal of income taxes
payable  and  a  tax  refund  on  completion  of  a  tax  audit  at  one  of our
international  operations.  Income  tax  expense  of  $106,000  in 2003 reflects
provision for foreign income taxes associated with our international operations.

DISCONTINUED  OPERATIONS

     On  January  23,  2001  we  sold  the  assets  of EEPD for cash proceeds of
$7,000,000.  As a result of this transaction, we recorded the operations of EEPD
as  discontinued operations. We recorded a net gain of $3,849,000 on the sale in
2001  after  taking  into account net assets transferred and certain liabilities
arising  from  the  transaction  including  severance and transaction costs. The
liabilities  arising  from  the  sale  included  accruals  related  to  certain
contingencies  resulting from the disposition. In


                                       23
<PAGE>
2002,  these  contingencies  were  favorably resolved resulting in a net gain of
$427,000  also  recorded  as  a  gain  on  disposal  of discontinued operations.

     In  2001  EEPD's  operating  loss  totaled  $737,000, representing revenues
earned of $74,000 offset by costs and expenses of $811,000 for the 23-day period
ending  January  23,  2001.  During  2003  we  recorded a loss from discontinued
operations  of $137,000 related to previously unidentified potential third party
contractual commitments of EEPD. The amounts were not material to the periods in
which  they  applied,  primarily  1999  and  2000.

NET  OPERATING  RESULTS

     Net  loss from continuing operations in 2001 was $698,000 compared to a net
loss  from  continuing operations of  $3,508,000 in 2002 and $1,436,000 in 2003.
The  2001  loss  from  continuing  operations resulted from slower than expected
revenue growth in the second half of the year due to a slowing economy, a change
in  the revenue mix to a higher proportion of services revenues with lower gross
profit,  and  to  acquisition  related  amortization  and  deferred compensation
charges.  We  incurred  a  loss  from continuing operations of $1,338,000 in the
fourth  quarter  of  2001.  This  loss  was  also the result of higher operating
expenses  in 2001, including a $455,000 restructuring charge related to employee
severance  and  termination  benefits,  the  operating costs associated with the
three  acquisitions completed in the third quarter of 2001, and amortization and
deferred  compensation  charges  related  to  our  acquisition  of Predict AG in
Switzerland.  The 2002 loss from continuing operations resulted from lower total
revenues,  higher  sales  and  marketing  costs  resulting  from  international
expansion,  higher  net  research  and  development  expense  resulting  from an
increase  in  our  product  line,  the $800,000 loss from impairment of goodwill
related  to  our  Swiss  subsidiary,  and  the $501,000 restructuring charge. We
incurred  a  loss from continuing operations of $1,127,000 in the fourth quarter
of  2002  as compared to a $1,338,000 loss in the prior year comparable quarter.
The  fourth quarter 2002 loss included a loss from impairment of goodwill charge
of  $800,000  and  a  $297,000 increase in expense, offset in part by a $508,000
improvement in gross profit due to a higher mix of software revenues as compared
to  services.   The 2003 loss from continuing operations primarily resulted from
the $911,000 restructuring charge and $462,000 loss from impairment of goodwill.
The  fourth  quarter  of  2003  resulted in income from continuing operations of
$209,000.  This  income  was  the  result  of  higher  revenues than in previous
quarters  coupled  with expense saving measures taken earlier in the year offset
somewhat  by  the  impairment  of  goodwill  charge  of  $462,000.

     Net  income  in 2001 was $2,414,000 compared to a net loss of $3,081,000 in
2002  and  a  net loss of $1,573,000 in 2003.  The 2001 net income reflected our
loss  from  continuing operations offset by the net gain on the sale of EEPD and
the  EEPD  operating  loss.  The  2002  net  loss  reflected  our  net loss from
continuing operations offset slightly by the remaining gain on the sale of EEPD.
The  2003  net  loss reflected our loss from continuing operations and loss from
discontinued  operations  of  $137,000  related  to  EEPD.

CONTINGENCIES

     On  December  13,  2002,  Wajih Alaiyan, a former employee of ours, filed a
complaint  against  us  in  the  Superior Court for King County, Washington. Mr.
Alaiyan  was formerly employed by the Company and he alleged that his employment
was  wrongfully  terminated. On December 5, 2003, a judge for the Superior Court
for King County, Washington granted summary judgment in our favor and dismissed.
Mr.  Alayian has appealed the decision.  . An evaluation of the likelihood of an
adverse  outcome  cannot be expressed with sufficient certainty at this time. An
unfavorable  outcome  could  have  a  material effect on our operating position,
results  of  operations,  and  cash  flows.

LIQUIDITY  AND  CAPITAL  RESOURCES

     Cash  and  cash equivalents increased to $7,139,000 at the end of 2003 from
$6,819,000 at the end of 2002 and $6,278,000 at December 31, 2001.  We generated
$815,000  in  cash  from  operations  in  2003  compared to $768,000 in 2002 and
$198,000  in  2001.  Operating  cash inflows in 2003 and 2002 were primarily the
result  of losses from continuing operations adjusted for non-cash depreciation,
amortization  and  goodwill  impairment,  and  benefiting  from  a  decrease  in
receivables  in  2002  and  an  increase  in  deferred  revenue  in  both years.

     Investing  activities  resulted  in  the  net  use  of  $256,000  in  2003,
$1,285,000 in 2002 and $3,303,000 in 2001. In 2003 and 2002 investing activities
resulted  primarily  from  the purchases of capital equipment. In 2001 investing
activities  consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $1,400,000 related to
continuing  operations  and  $1,744,000  for  acquisitions.

     Financing activities used cash of $39,000 in 2003 and provided cash inflows
$1,197,000  in  2002  and  $542,000  in  2001. In 2001 financing activities cash
inflows  resulted primarily from proceeds from the exercise of stock options and
stock  issued  through  the  employee  stock  purchase  plan,  offset in part by
payments  made  on  debt.  In 2002 financing cash inflows included $450,000 from
equipment  financings. $380,000 from subscription receivable from a director and
$451,000  from  proceeds  via  the


                                       24
<PAGE>
exercise  of  stock options and stock issued through the employee stock purchase
plan.  In 2003, payments made on equipment financings exceeded the proceeds from
the  exercise  of  stock  options  and  stock  issued through the employee stock
purchase  plan.

     In  March 2003, we renewed a $3.5 million working capital revolving line of
credit and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, which expired in
March 2004. This facility is secured by our accounts receivable and allows us to
borrow up to the lesser of (a) 75% of our eligible accounts receivable (advances
against  U.S.  Government  accounts  will  be  permitted up to 20% of the amount
outstanding  under the line of credit) or (b) $3.5 million and bears interest at
the  prime  rate,  which was 4.0% as of December 31, 2003, plus 1%.  At December
31,  2003,  no amounts had been borrowed and $1,445,000 was available for future
borrowings  under  the  line  of  credit  facility.

     In  March  2003,  we  also  renewed  an  equipment  term  loan and security
agreement with SVB which expired in March 2004., This facility allows us to take
advances  on the cost of eligible equipment less than 90 days old and is secured
by  the  underlying  equipment. We borrowed $450,000 under this facility in 2002
and  the  remaining outstanding balance was $290,000 at December 31, 2003. These
term  loan  advances  bear  interest  at  the  prime  rate, which was 4.0% as of
December  31,  2003, plus 1%.  Advances are repaid over a 36-month period.    At
December  31,  2003,  $375,000  was  available  under  this  facility for future
equipment  borrowings.

     These  credit  facilities  contain  covenants that limit our net losses and
restrict  the  amount of capital expenditures not financed through the equipment
term  loan.  In  addition,  we  are prohibited from paying dividends. We were in
compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2003. These credit facilities
may  be  utilized  to  finance  future capital investments, including technology
necessary  to  support our new product lines. These credit facilities expand our
liquid  resources  and  ability to maintain an adequate balance of cash-on-hand.
Advances  taken  on the equipment term loan totaled $450,000 in 2002 and none in
2003.  There  were  no advances outstanding under the line of credit at December
31,  2003.

     In  2001  net  cash  proceeds from the sale of EEPD amounted to $5,084,000,
including  proceeds  on  the sale of $7,000,000 offset by $1,916,000 in employee
severance and termination benefits, professional fees and vendor commitments. In
2002  cash  outflows  for discontinued operations relating to employee severance
and  termination  benefits  amounted  to  $169,000.  In  2003  cash outflows for
discontinued  operations relating to contractual commitments of EEPD amounted to
$137,000.

     At  December  31, 2003, our principal unused sources of liquidity consisted
of  cash  and  cash  equivalents  of $7,139,000 and our bank line of credit. Our
liquidity  needs  are  principally for financing of accounts receivable, capital
assets, strategic investments, product development, and flexibility in a dynamic
and  competitive  operating  environment.

     The  following  are  our contractual commitments (as of December 31, 2003):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31,
                                    ------------------------
                          2004      2005       2006      2007     2008    THEREAFTER     TOTAL
                        --------  ---------  --------  --------  -------  -----------  ----------
<S>                     <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>      <C>          <C>
Commitments:
  Equipment financings  $129,000  $ 129,000  $ 32,000  $      -  $     -  $         -  $  290,000
  Operating leases       773,000    167,000   130,000   110,000   47,000       63,000   1,290,000
                        --------  ---------  --------  --------  -------  -----------  ----------
    Total commitments   $902,000  $ 296,000  $162,000  $110,000  $47,000  $    63,000  $1,580,000
                        ========  =========  ========  ========  =======  ===========  ==========
</TABLE>


                                       25
<PAGE>
     We  believe  that  our  existing cash and cash equivalents, investments and
available  bank  borrowings  will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements
for  at least the next 12 months. However, if during that time market conditions
worsen,  or  if  other  unforeseen  events should occur, we would likely deem it
necessary to seek additional funds through public or private equity financing or
from  other  sources  in  order  to  fund  our  operations and pursue our growth
strategy.  We have no commitment for additional financing, and we may experience
difficulty  in obtaining funding on favorable terms, if at all. Any financing we
obtain  may  contain covenants that restrict our freedom to operate our business
or  may  require  us  to  issue  securities  that  have  rights,  preferences or
privileges  senior to our common stock and may dilute your ownership interest in
Insightful.

OFF-BALANCE  SHEET  ARRANGEMENTS

     We  provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers
against  claims  of  intellectual  property  infringement  made by third parties
arising  from  the  use  of  our products. We evaluate estimated losses for such
indemnifications  under  SFAS 5, Accounting for Contingencies, as interpreted by
FIN  45. We consider such factors as the degree of probability of an unfavorable
outcome  and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. To
date, we have not encountered material costs as a result of such obligations and
have  not  accrued  any  liabilities  related  to  such  indemnifications in our
financial  statements.

RECENT  ACCOUNTING  PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In  December  2003, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104,
"Revenue  Recognition"  (SAB  No.  104),  which  codifies,  revises and rescinds
certain  sections  of  SAB No. 101, "Revenue Recognition", in order to make this
interpretive  guidance  consistent  with  current  authoritative  accounting and
auditing guidance and SEC rules and regulations. SAB 104's primary purpose is to
rescind  accounting  guidance  contained  in SAB 101 related to multiple element
revenue  arrangements,  superseded  as  a  result  of the issuance of EITF 00-21
Accounting  for  Revenue  Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. Additionally,
SAB  104  rescinds  the  SEC's  Revenue  Recognition  in  Financial  Statements
Frequently  Asked  Questions  and Answers (the FAQ) issued with SAB 101 that had
been codified in SEC Topic 13, Revenue Recognition. Selected portions of the FAQ
have been incorporated into SAB 104. While the wording of SAB 104 has changed to
reflect  the  issuance  of EITF 00-21, the revenue recognition principles of SAB
101  remain  largely  unchanged  by  the  issuance  of SAB 104. Adoption of this
standard  had no material impact on the company's financial position, results of
operations  or  cash  flows.


                                       26
<PAGE>
ITEM  7A.    QUANTITATIVE  AND  QUALITATIVE  DISCLOSURES  ABOUT  MARKET  RISK.

     We  develop  products  in  the  United States and sell them worldwide. As a
result,  our  financial  results could be affected by factors such as changes in
foreign  currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in foreign markets.
We  operate  in  the  United  Kingdom, Germany, France and Switzerland and incur
expenses  and  generate billings denominated in those local currencies. Interest
income  and  expense  are  sensitive  to  changes  in  the general level of U.S.
interest  rates,  particularly  since  our  investments  are  in  short-term
instruments.  Based  on  the  short-term  nature  and  current  levels  of  our
investments  and  debt,  however,  we  do not believe that there is any material
market  risk  or  exposure.

     Our  general  investing  policy  is to limit the risk of principal loss and
ensure  the  safety  of  invested  funds  by limiting credit and market risk. We
currently  invest  in  highly  liquid  money  market accounts. All highly liquid
investments  with  original maturities of three months or less are considered to
be  cash  equivalents.


                                       27
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
ITEM  8.    FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA.

                             INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 AND 2002
                                 TOGETHER WITH AUDITORS' REPORT

<S>                                                                                         <C>
INDEX. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  PAGE
- ------                                                                                      ----
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001    31

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    34
</TABLE>


                                       28
<PAGE>
                REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To  The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
Insightful  Corporation:

     We  have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Insightful
Corporation  as  of  December  31,  2003  and  2002 and the related consolidated
statements  of  operations,  stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the
three  years  in  the period ended December 31, 2003. These financial statements
are  the  responsibility  of  the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express  an  opinion  on  these  financial  statements  based  on  our  audits.

     We  conducted  our  audits  in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted  in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the  audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence  supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit  also  includes  assessing  the accounting principles used and significant
estimates  made  by  management,  as  well  as  evaluating the overall financial
statement  presentation.  We  believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for  our  opinion.

     In  our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in  all  material  respects,  the  consolidated financial position of Insightful
Corporation  at  December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the consolidated results of its
operations  and  its  cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December  31,  2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in  the  United  States.

                                              /S/ ERNST AND YOUNG LLP

Seattle, Washington
February 24, 2004
except for the second paragraph of Note 12,
as to which the date is March 27, 2004


                                       29
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                            CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                  (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

                                                                                                 DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                          -------------------------
                                                                                               2003         2002
                                                                                          --------------  ---------
<S>                                                                                       <C>             <C>
                                                      ASSETS
                                                      ------
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $       7,139   $  6,819
  Trade accounts receivable, less reserves of $333 and $305 at
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           3,210      2,346
  Other receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             726        955
  Inventories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             130        102
  Prepaid expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             292        204
                                                                                          --------------  ---------
      Total current assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          11,497     10,426
Property and equipment, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             984      2,055
Goodwill. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             800      1,230
Other intangibles, net of accumulated amortization of $481 and $267 at
  December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             122        276
Other assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              53         49
                                                                                          --------------  ---------
                                                                                          $      13,456   $ 14,036
                                                                                          ==============  =========
                                        LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                        ------------------------------------
Current liabilities:
  Current portion of long-term debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $         129   $    129
  Accounts payable. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             914      1,030
  Accrued payroll and payroll-related items . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1,372      1,135
  Accrued expenses and other current liabilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1,390      1,236
  Deferred revenue. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           5,633      4,780
                                                                                          --------------  ---------
      Total current liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           9,438      8,310
Long-term debt, less current portion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             161        289

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, $0.01 par value-
    Authorized-1,000,000 shares
    Issued and outstanding-none . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               -          -
  Common stock, $0.01 par value-
    Authorized-20,000,000 shares
    Issued and outstanding-11,474,444 and 11,518,277 shares at
    December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             115        115
  Additional paid-in capital. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          34,319     34,316
  Deferred stock-based compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               -       (162)
  Accumulated deficit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         (30,454)   (28,881)
  Cumulative translation gain (loss). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            (123)        49
                                                                                          --------------  ---------
      Total stockholders' equity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           3,857      5,437
                                                                                          --------------  ---------
                                                                                          $      13,456   $ 14,036
                                                                                          ==============  =========

<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>


                                       30
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)


                                                                                            2003      2002      2001
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
<S>                                                                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Revenues:
  Software licenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $ 7,645   $ 6,151   $ 6,753
  Software maintenance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6,641     5,955     5,139
  Professional services and other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     2,931     4,288     5,534
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
    Total revenues. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17,217    16,394    17,426
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
Cost of revenues:
  Software related. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1,944     1,832     2,303
  Professional services and other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     2,546     3,533     3,889
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
    Total cost of revenues. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     4,490     5,365     6,192
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
    Gross profit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12,727    11,029    11,234
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
Operating expenses:
  Sales and marketing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6,919     7,002     5,759
  Research and development. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     6,469     7,918     7,574
  Less-Funded research. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (4,307)   (4,674)   (4,827)
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
    Research and development, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     2,162     3,244     2,747
  General and administrative. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     3,559     3,074     3,063
  Amortization of goodwill (2001) and other intangibles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       212       212       107
  Loss from impairment of goodwill. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       462       800         -
  Restructuring-related charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       911       501       455
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
    Total operating expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14,225    14,833    12,131
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
    Loss from operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (1,498)   (3,804)     (897)
Other income. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       189       128       341
Interest expense. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       (21)      (33)      (27)
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
  Loss before income taxes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (1,330)   (3,709)     (583)
Income tax provision (benefit). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       106      (201)      115
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
  Loss from continuing operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (1,436)   (3,508)     (698)
Discontinued operations:
  Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      (137)        -      (737)
  Gain on disposal of discontinued operations, net of tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         -       427     3,849
                                                                                          --------  --------  --------
    Net income (loss) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $(1,573)  $(3,081)  $ 2,414
                                                                                          ========  ========  ========
Basic and diluted loss per share-continuing operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $ (0.13)  $ (0.31)  $ (0.06)
                                                                                          ========  ========  ========
Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share-discontinued operations . . . . . . . . .   $ (0.01)  $  0.04   $  0.29
                                                                                          ========  ========  ========
Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $ (0.14)  $ (0.27)  $  0.22
                                                                                          ========  ========  ========
Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11,404    11,287    10,858
                                                                                          ========  ========  ========
Weighted-average number common shares outstanding assuming dilution . . . . . . . . . .    11,404    11,287    10,858
                                                                                          ========  ========  ========

<FN>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>


                                       31
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                                (IN THOUSANDS)

                                                        NUMBER    $0.01    ADDITIONAL      STOCK-
                                                          OF      PAR-      PAID-IN         BASED        ACCUMULATED
                                                        SHARES    VALUE     CAPITAL      COMPENSATION      DEFICIT
                                                       --------  -------  ------------  --------------  -------------
<S>                                                    <C>       <C>      <C>           <C>             <C>
Balance, January 1, 2001 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10,696      107        32,525               -        (28,214)
  Exercise of stock options and Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     296        3           514               -              -

Collection of subscription receivable. . . . . . . . .       -        -             -               -              -
  Issuance of common stock in connection
    with Predict acquisition and deferred stock-based
    compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     300        3           688            (426)             -
  Issuance of common stock and warrants
    in connection with Waratah acquisition . . . . . .      34        -           140                              -
  Amortization of stock-based compensation . . . . . .       -        -             -              44              -
  Net income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -        -             -               -          2,414
  Translation adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -        -             -               -              -

  Comprehensive income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -        -             -               -              -
                                                       --------  -------  ------------  --------------  -------------

Balance, December 31, 2001 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11,326      113        33,867            (382)       (25,800)
  Exercise of stock options and Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     192        2           449               -              -
  Collection of subscription receivable. . . . . . . .       -        -             -               -              -
  Amortization of stock-based compensation . . . . . .       -        -             -             220              -
  Net loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -        -             -               -         (3,081)
  Translation adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -        -             -               -              -

  Comprehensive loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -        -             -               -              -
                                                       --------  -------  ------------  --------------  -------------

Balance, December 31, 2002 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $11,518   $  115   $    34,316   $        (162)  $    (28,881)
  Amortization of stock-based compensation . . . . . .       -        -             -              34              -
  Exercise of stock options and Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      72        1            88               -              -
  Stock-based compensation related to modification
    of Stock option grant. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -        -           181               -              -
  Cancellation of Predict acquisition related
    common stock and deferred compensation . . . . . .    (116)      (1)         (266)            128              -
  Net loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -        -             -               -         (1,573)
  Translation adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -        -             -               -              -

  Comprehensive loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -        -             -               -              -
                                                       --------  -------  ------------  --------------  -------------

Balance, December 31, 2003 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $11,474   $  115   $    34,319   $           -   $    (30,454)
                                                       ========  =======  ============  ==============  =============


                                                                                                  COMPRE-
                                                                          TRANS-       STOCK-     HENSIVE
                                                        SUBSCRIPTION      LATION      HOLDERS'    INCOME
                                                         RECEIVABLE     ADJUSTMENT     EQUITY     (LOSS)
                                                       --------------  ------------  ----------  ---------
<S>                                                    <C>             <C>           <C>         <C>
Balance, January 1, 2001 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          (550)            7       3,875          -
  Exercise of stock options and Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -             -         517          -

Collection of subscription receivable. . . . . . . . .           170             -         170          -
  Issuance of common stock in connection
    with Predict acquisition and deferred stock-based
    compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -             -         265          -
  Issuance of common stock and warrants
    in connection with Waratah acquisition . . . . . .             -             -         140          -
  Amortization of stock-based compensation . . . . . .             -             -          44
  Net income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -             -       2,414      2,414
  Translation adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -            12          12         12
                                                                                                 ---------
  Comprehensive income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -             -           -   $  2,426
                                                       --------------  ------------  ----------  =========

Balance, December 31, 2001 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          (380)           19       7,437          -
  Exercise of stock options and Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -             -         451          -
  Collection of subscription receivable. . . . . . . .           380             -         380          -
  Amortization of stock-based compensation . . . . . .             -             -         220
  Net loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -             -      (3,081)    (3,081)
  Translation adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -            30          30         30
                                                                                                 ---------
  Comprehensive loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -             -           -   $ (3,051)
                                                       --------------  ------------  ----------  =========

Balance, December 31, 2002 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $           -   $        49   $   5,437          -
  Amortization of stock-based compensation . . . . . .             -             -          34          -
  Exercise of stock options and Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -             -          89          -
  Stock-based compensation related to modification
    of Stock option grant. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -             -         181          -
  Cancellation of Predict acquisition related
    common stock and deferred compensation . . . . . .             -             -        (139)         -
  Net loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -             -      (1,573)    (1,573)
  Translation adjustment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -          (172)       (172)      (172)
                                                                                                 ---------
  Comprehensive loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             -             -           -   $ (1,745)
                                                       --------------  ------------  ----------  =========

Balance, December 31, 2003 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $           -   $      (123)  $   3,857          -
                                                       ==============  ============  ==========

<FN>
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>


                                       32
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                               (IN THOUSANDS)

                                                                                  2003      2002      2001
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
<S>                                                                             <C>       <C>       <C>
Operating activities:
  Net income (loss) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $(1,573)  $(3,081)  $ 2,414
  Less-Income (loss) from discontinued operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (137)      427     3,111
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
        Loss from continuing operations           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (1,436)   (3,508)     (697)
  Adjustments to reconcile loss from continuing
   operations to net cash provided by operating activities-
    Depreciation, and amortization charges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1,336     1,289       754
    Amortization (reversal) of stock-based compensation . . . . . . . . . . . .    (105)      220        44
    Non-cash compensation charge. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     181         -         -
    Other non-cash charges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      12         -         -
    Goodwill impairment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     462       800         -
    Loss on disposition of assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     165         -         -
    Changes in current assets and liabilities:
      Trade and other receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (506)    1,391      (540)
      Inventories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (27)      (31)        -
      Prepaid expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (79)       49       (72)
      Decrease (increase) in other assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -        52       (48)
      Accounts payable. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (110)     (345)      115
      Accrued expenses, payroll and other current liabilities . . . . . . . . .     257       (59)     (169)
      Deferred revenue. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     665       962       763
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
        Net cash provided by operating activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     815       820       150
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
Investing activities:
  Purchases of property and equipment                                              (197)   (1,069)   (1,400)


  Capitalized patent costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (59)      (92)     (111)
  Acquisitions, net of cash acquired. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -      (176)   (1,744)
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
        Net cash used in investing activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (256)   (1,337)   (3,255)
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
Financing activities:
  Payments on debt. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (128)      (84)     (145)
  Proceeds from debt. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       -       450         -
  Cash received on subscription receivable from director                              -       380       170
    Proceeds from exercise of stock options and employee stock purchase plan. .      89       451       517
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
        Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities . . . . . . . . . .     (39)    1,197       542
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents. . . . . . . . . .     (63)       30        12
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
Net cash (used in) provided by continuing operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . .     457       710    (2,551)
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
Net cash provided by (used in) discontinued operations. . . . . . . . . . . . .    (137)     (169)    5,084
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     320       541     2,533
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6,819     6,278     3,745
                                                                                --------  --------  --------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 7,139   $ 6,819   $ 6,278
                                                                                ========  ========  ========
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
  Cash paid during the year for-
    Interest. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $    21   $    30   $    12
                                                                                ========  ========  ========
    Income taxes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $    82   $     9   $    65
                                                                                ========  ========  ========
Supplemental disclosure of noncash investing and financing activities:
    Issuance of common stock and warrants in connection with acquisitions and
     deferred stock-based compensation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $     -   $     -   $   832
                                                                                ========  ========  ========
<FN>

          The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>


                                       33
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

(1)  DESCRIPTION  OF  BUSINESS

CONTINUING  OPERATIONS

     Insightful  Corporation  and  subsidiaries,  or  Insightful,  provides
enterprises  with  scalable  data  analysis solutions consisting of software and
services  that  facilitate  decision-making  by  revealing  patterns, trends and
relationships.  The  company  is  a  supplier of these software and services for
statistical  data  mining,  business  analytics,  knowledge  management,  and
information retrieval enabling clients to gain intelligence from numerical data,
text  and  images

     Our  products  include  S-PLUS  ,  StatServer  ,  S-PLUS  Analytic  Server
,,Insightful  Miner,  and  InFact  . Our consulting services provide specialized
expertise  and  proven  processes  for the design, development and deployment of
analytical  solutions.

     We  have  been delivering data analysis solutions for 17 years to companies
in  financial  services,  pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, telecommunications and
manufacturing,  as  well  as  government  and  research  institutions.

     Headquartered  in  Seattle, Washington, we also have North American offices
in  New  York  City and North Carolina. Our international offices are located in
France, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, with distributors around the world.



  DISCONTINUED  OPERATIONS

     In  January  2001,  we  closed  the  sale  of our Engineering and Education
Products  Division  (EEPD)  to  a  third  party  for cash proceeds of $7,000,000
resulting in gains of $3,849,000 recorded in 2001 and $427,000 recorded in 2002.
The  gain  on disposal of discontinued operations recorded in 2002 resulted from
the  favorable  resolution  of certain contingencies relating to the transaction
during  the  second  and  third  quarters  of  2002.

     The  results  of  EEPD  are  presented  on  a net basis in the accompanying
consolidated  statements  of  operations  as  discontinued  operations.

     The  2001  loss  from discontinued operations consists of EEPD's revenue of
$74,000  offset by costs and expenses of $811,000 for the period through January
23, 2001, the date of disposition. The loss of $137,000 recorded in 2003 related
to  previously  unidentified  potential  third  party contractual commitments of
EEPD.  The  amounts  were  not  material  to  the periods in which they applied,
primarily 1999 and 2000.  We believe that all significant contingencies relating
to  the  discontinued  operations  have  now  been  resolved.


(2)  SIGNIFICANT  ACCOUNTING  POLICIES

     (a)  PRINCIPLES  OF  CONSOLIDATION

     The  accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Insightful and its subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have
been  eliminated  in  consolidation.

     The  accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect the application
of  certain  accounting  policies as described in this note and elsewhere in the
consolidated  financial  statements  and  notes.

     (b)  REVENUE  RECOGNITION

     We offer a variety of scalable data analysis software products, maintenance
contracts, training and consulting services to our customers.  We record revenue
in  accordance  with  Statement  of  Position  (SOP)  No. 97-2, Software Revenue
Recognition,  as  amended  by  SOP  No. 98-9, Modification of SOP 97-2, Software
Revenue  Recognition,  with  Respect  to  Certain  Transactions  and  related
interpretations  including  Technical  Practice  Aids.  License revenue consists
principally  of  software  license  fees earned under perpetual software license
agreements  and  is  generally  recognized  upon delivery of the software, after
execution  of  a  non-cancellable  signed  license  agreement  or  receipt  of a
definitive  purchase  order  (when  appropriate), if collection of the resulting
receivable  is  probable,  the fee is fixed or determinable, and vendor-specific
objective  evidence  exists  for  all  undelivered elements. Revenues under such
arrangements, which may include several different software products and services
sold together, are allocated based on the residual method in accordance with SOP
No.  98-9.  Under  the  residual  method,  the  fair  value  of  the undelivered
non-essential  elements  is deferred and subsequently recognized when earned. We
have  established  vendor-specific


                                       34
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

objective evidence ("VSOE") of fair value for professional services and training
services.  In addition, we have established VSOE for maintenance related to most
of  our products. For software products sold with maintenance where VSOE for the
maintenance  element has not been established, all revenue under the arrangement
is  recognized  over the maintenance term provided all other revenue recognition
criteria  have  been  met. VSOE is based on the price charged when an element is
sold  separately  or,  in  case of an element not yet sold separately, the price
established  by  authorized  management,  if it is probable that the price, once
established,  will  not  change  before  market introduction. Standard terms for
license  agreements typically call for payment within 30 to 45 days. Probability
of collection is typically based upon the assessment of the customer's financial
condition  through  review  of  their  current  financial  statements  or credit
reports.  For existing customers, prior payment history is also used to evaluate
probability  of collection. We provide for estimated returns at the time of sale
under an unconditional 30-day return policy based on historical experience

     Maintenance  revenue  is  recognized  ratably  over the term of the related
contracts,  which  generally  span  one  year  or  less.  The  initial  one-year
maintenance  contract  is bundled into the license fees on most of our products.
Maintenance  services,  which  include  unspecified  product  upgrades  on  a
when-and-if  available  basis,  are  priced based on a percentage of the current
list price of the licensed software products. Maintenance renewals are optional.

     Consulting  revenues  typically  include  deployment  assistance,  project
management, integration with existing customer applications and related services
typically  performed  on  a  time-and-materials  basis  under  separate  service
arrangements.  Revenues  from  consulting  and  training  services are generally
recognized  as services are performed. Standard terms for renewal of maintenance
contracts,  consulting  services  and  training call for payment within 30 to 45
days.

     Fees  from  licenses sold together with consulting are generally recognized
upon  shipment  of  the  software,  provided  that all other revenue recognition
criteria  are  met,  payment  of  the  license  fees  are not dependent upon the
performance  of  the  services, and the consulting services are not essential to
the functionality of the licensed software. If the services are essential to the
functionality  of the software, or payment of the license fees is dependent upon
the  performance  of the services, both the software license and consulting fees
are recognized under the percentage of completion method of contract accounting.
Revenue  from  fixed-term  licenses  sold  with  maintenance  is recognized on a
straight-line  basis  over the license term if all other aspects of SOP 97-2 are
satisfied.  All  sales  made  through  indirect  channels  including value added
resellers,  or  VARs,  and distributors are accounted for using the sell-through
method.

     If  the fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is recognized as payments
become  due from the customer. If an acceptance period is required, revenues are
recognized  upon  the  earlier  of  customer acceptance or the expiration of the
acceptance  period.

     Amounts  received  in  advance  for  maintenance agreements are recorded as
deferred  revenue  on  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets.

     (c)  CASH  EQUIVALENTS

     Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates market, and consist
of  short-term,  highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than
three  months  at  the time of purchase. Cash equivalents consisted primarily of
investments  in  institutional  money  market  funds.

     (d)  INVENTORIES

     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market
and  consist  principally  of  CDs  and  users  manuals.


                                       35
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     (e)  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property  and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and
amortization.  We  provide  for  depreciation  and  amortization  by  charges to
operations  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the estimated useful lives of the
respective  assets,  as  follows:

ASSET CLASSIFICATION                 USEFUL LIVES
- -------------------------------  ----------------------
<S>                              <C>
Computer equipment and software                 3 years
Furniture and fixtures. . . . .                 5 years
Leasehold improvements. . . . .  Shorter of useful life
                                 or lease term
</TABLE>


     (f)  RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT

     We  account  for  our software research and development costs in accordance
with  Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 86, Accounting for
the  Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased or Otherwise Marketed. During
the  years  ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, we expensed all research and
development  costs,  as  those costs incurred from the technological feasibility
date (defined as a working model) to the general release date were not material.

     (g)  FUNDED  RESEARCH

     We  have  a  funded  research group that receives funding from U.S. federal
agencies  for  work  performed  under  government  grants. Research projects are
primarily  performed  under  cost  reimbursement  arrangements,  which typically
provide  funding  on  a time and materials basis based on agency approved labor,
overhead  and profit rates. The terms of these arrangements generally require us
to  submit  both  progress  and  final  reports.  Research  projects are focused
primarily  on  extending  the  frontiers  of  data analysis for numeric, textual
signal  &  image  data.  Funding  is generally received through cash requests or
installment  payments.  These  amounts  are  recognized  either  as  the work is
performed  under  time  and material contracts, or on a percentage of completion
basis  for  fixed bid contracts, and are recorded as an offset against our total
research  and  development  costs.  Receivables resulting from this activity are
included  in  other  receivables  on  the  balance  sheets.

     (h)  EARNINGS  PER  SHARE

     Basic  net income (loss) per share is calculated using the weighted-average
number  of  shares  of  common  stock  outstanding.  Stock  issued  subject  to
restrictions  is  excluded  from  the calculation. Diluted net income (loss) per
share reflects the dilutive effect of common stock equivalents, (including stock
options  and warrants) unless their effect on earnings per share from continuing
operations  is  anti-dilutive.

     A  reconciliation  of basic and diluted shares outstanding is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                 -------------------------------------
                                                                    2003         2002         2001
                                                                 -----------  -----------  -----------
<S>                                                              <C>          <C>          <C>
Weighted average common shares outstanding . . . . . . . . . .   11,435,000   11,518,000   10,908,000
Restricted common stock subject to repurchase. . . . . . . . .      (31,000)    (231,000)     (50,000)
Weighted-average common shares used in calculation of basic and
  diluted income (loss) per share. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11,404,000   11,287,000   10,858,000
</TABLE>

     Options  to  purchase  2,562,000,  3,040,000 and 3,387,000 shares of common
stock  in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively, and warrants of 20,000 for each of
the  three  years,  were  excluded  from the computation of diluted net loss per
share  because  their  effect  is  anti-dilutive.


                                       36
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

     (i)  FOREIGN  CURRENCY  TRANSLATION

     The  functional  currency of our foreign subsidiaries is the local currency
in  the  country  in  which the subsidiary is located. Assets and liabilities of
foreign locations are translated to U.S. dollars using the exchange rate at each
balance  sheet date. Income and expense accounts are translated using an average
rate of exchange during the period. Foreign currency translation adjustments are
accumulated  as  a  separate  component  of  stockholders' equity. The effect of
aggregate  transaction  gains  and losses is included in other income. Aggregate
transaction  gain  was  approximately  $136,000  for the year ended December 31,
2003.  Our  aggregate  transaction  loss  was  approximately $5,000 for the year
ended  December  31,  2002  and our aggregate transaction gain was approximately
$5,000  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2001.

     (j)  GOODWILL  AND  OTHER  INTANGIBLES

     Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of
net  assets  acquired  in business acquisitions accounted for under the purchase
method  of  accounting. Other intangibles consist primarily of amounts allocated
to  non-compete  agreements  and  customer relationships as a result of business
acquisitions  and  capitalized  legal  patent  fees.

     Until December 31, 2001 we amortized goodwill originating from acquisitions
completed  before  June  30,  2001  on  a straight-line basis over its estimated
useful  life.  Goodwill  originating from acquisitions completed between July 1,
2001  and  December  31,  2001  was  not  amortized.

     Effective  January  1,  2002,  we  adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other
Intangible  Assets. As required by SFAS 142, we no longer amortize goodwill, but
instead test it for impairment at least annually. Additional goodwill impairment
tests  are  performed when events occurs or circumstances change that would more
likely  than  not  reduce  the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying
amount. Under the test, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit that includes
goodwill  exceeds  the  fair  value  of  the reporting unit, we must measure the
impairment  loss.  Impairment  loss  is  measured  as the excess, if any, of the
carrying  amount  of  reporting  unit  goodwill over its implied fair value. The
implied  fair value of goodwill is determined as the excess of the fair value of
the reporting unit over fair values of all of the unit's assets and liabilities,
including  any unrecognized intangible assets. We have identified four reporting
units that have goodwill, Waratah, Insightful UK, Insightful Predict/Germany and
Insightful France. We determine fair values of reporting units using the present
value  method  of  measurement  of  future  cash  flows.

     Our  net  income  (loss), adjusted to exclude goodwill amortization, was as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                     ------------------------
                                                 2003          2002         2001
                                                 ----          ----         ----
<S>                                          <C>           <C>           <C>
Reported net income (loss) . . . . . . . . . $(1,573,000)  $(3,081,000)  $2,414,000
Add back goodwill amortization, net of tax .           -             -       68,000
                                             ------------  ------------  ----------
Adjusted net income (loss) . . . . . . . . . $(1,573,000)  $(3,081,000)  $2,482,000
                                             ============  ============  ==========
</TABLE>

     There  was  no  significant  impact  on basic or diluted income or loss per
share due to the amortization of goodwill, net of taxes.

     In  assessing  the  recoverability  of  our  goodwill  and other intangible
assets, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other
factors.  Our  future  cash flows are based on current volume and pricing levels
with  anticipated rates of growth and change. If our estimated future cash flows
or  other  assumptions were to change, we could be required to record impairment
charges  for  those  assets for which the carrying value is not supported by the
future  cash  flows.

     Other  intangibles  are  stated  at  cost less accumulated amortization. We
provide  for  amortization  by  charges  to operations on a straight-line basis,
which  approximates the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible
asset  are  consumed or otherwise used up, over their estimated useful lives, as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
ASSET CLASSIFICATION          USEFUL LIVES
- ----------------------        ------------
<S>                           <C>
Non-compete agreements. . . . . . .  2 years
Customer relationships. . . . . . .  2 years
Patents . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3 years
</TABLE>


                                       37
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

     (k)  IMPAIRMENT  OF  LONG-LIVED  ASSETS

     In  accordance  with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived  Assets,  we evaluate the carrying values of intangible assets (other
than  goodwill) and other long-lived assets on a regular basis for the existence
of  facts or circumstances, both internal and external that may suggest that the
carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets
held  and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to
estimated  undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.
If the carrying amount is higher, the impairment loss is measured by the amount,
if  any,  by  which  the  carrying amount of the assets exceeds their fair value
based  on  the  present  value  of  estimated  expected  future  cash  flows.



     (l)  ADVERTISING  COSTS

     We  expense  advertising costs as incurred. Total advertising expenses were
approximately  $53,000,  $39,000  and $33,000 for the years ended December 2003,
2002,  and  2001,  respectively.

     (m)  CONCENTRATION  OF  CREDIT  RISK

     SFAS  No.  105,  Disclosure of Information about Financial Instruments with
Off-Balance-Sheet  Risk  and Financial Instruments with Concentrations of Credit
Risk,  requires  disclosure of any significant off-balance-sheet and credit risk
concentrations.  Financial  instruments  that  subject us to credit risk consist
primarily  of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. We maintain the
majority of our cash balances with one financial institution in the amounts that
exceed  federally  insured  levels.

     Our  accounts  receivable  and  customer  base  are  dispersed  across many
different  geographic  areas  throughout North America and Europe and consist of
companies  in  a  variety  of  industries.  We  assess each customer's financial
condition  through the review of current financial statements or credit reports.
For  existing  customers,  prior  payment  history  is  also  used  to  evaluate
probability of collection and credit worthiness. We do not require collateral or
other  security  to  support  credit  sales.

     During  the  years  ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, we did not have
any  one  customer  that  accounted  for greater than 10% of net revenues. As of
December  31, 2003 and 2002, we did not have any one customer that accounted for
greater  than  10%  of  accounts  receivable.

     (n)  USE  OF  ESTIMATES

     The  preparation  of  these consolidated financial statements in conformity
with  accounting  principles  generally  accepted  in the United States requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in
the  financial statements. Changes in these estimates and assumptions may have a
material impact on the consolidated financial statements. We have used estimates
in  determining  certain provisions, including receivable reserves, useful lives
for  property  and  equipment,  useful  lives  of intangibles, impairment losses
related  to  goodwill,  and  tax  liabilities.

     (o)  FINANCIAL  INSTRUMENTS

     At  December 31, 2003, we had the following financial instruments: cash and
cash  equivalents,  accounts  receivable,  other  receivables, accounts payable,
accrued  liabilities, and debt. The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents,
receivables and payables approximates fair value based on the liquidity of these
financial instruments or based on their short-term nature. The carrying value of
equipment  financing  debt  approximates fair value based on the market interest
rates  available  to  us  for  debt  of  similar  risk  and  maturities.

     (p)  RECENT  ACCOUNTING  PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In  December  2003, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104,
"Revenue  Recognition"  (SAB  No.  104),  which  codifies,  revises and rescinds
certain  sections  of  SAB No. 101, "Revenue Recognition", in order to make this
interpretive  guidance  consistent  with  current  authoritative  accounting and
auditing guidance and SEC rules and regulations. SAB 104's primary purpose is to
rescind  accounting  guidance  contained  in SAB 101 related to multiple element
revenue  arrangements,  superseded  as  a  result  of the issuance of EITF 00-21
Accounting  for  Revenue  Arrangements  with  Multiple  Deliverables.


                                       38
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

Additionally, SAB 104 rescinds the SEC's Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements Frequently Asked Questions and Answers (the FAQ) issued with SAB 101
that had been codified in SEC Topic 13, Revenue Recognition. Selected portions
of the FAQ have been incorporated into SAB 104. While the wording of SAB 104 has
changed to reflect the issuance of EITF 00-21, the revenue recognition
principles of SAB 101 remain largely unchanged by the issuance of SAB 104.
Adoption of this standard had no material impact on the company's financial
position, results of operations or cash flows.


     (q)  SEGMENT  INFORMATION

     SFAS  No.  131,  "Disclosures  About  Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information,"  establishes  standards  for reporting information about operating
segments  in  annual  financial  statements.  It  also establishes standards for
related  disclosures  about  products,  services,  geographical  areas and major
customers.  In the third quarter of 2003, management changed the way the Company
is organized and the way it presents information about its operating performance
to  its  chief  operating decision maker.  As a result, three operating segments
were  identified:  Domestic  Data Analysis, International Data Analysis and Text
Analysis.  Segment  information for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and
2001 has been presented in accordance with the current segment definitions.  The
Company  measures  segment  performance  based  on  their  income  or  loss from
operations.  Assets  are  not  allocated  to  segments  for  internal  reporting
presentations.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
DOMESTIC DATA ANALYSIS                             YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                  -------------------------
                                               2003         2002         2001
                                            -----------  -----------  -----------
<S>                                         <C>            <C>          <C>
Revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11,084,000   11,002,000   13,463,000
Depreciation expense . . . . . . . . . . .     759,000      864,000     4848,000
Loss from operations . . . . . . . . . . .    (401,000)  (1,401,000)   1,382,000

INTERNATIONAL DATA ANALYSIS                        YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                  -------------------------
                                               2003         2002         2001
                                            -----------  -----------  -----------
Revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5,488,000    5,169,000    3,963,000
Depreciation expense . . . . . . . . . . .     283,000      155,000      149,000
Loss from operations . . . . . . . . . . .    (689,000)  (2,210,000)  (2,279,000)

TEXT ANALYSIS                                      YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                  -------------------------
                                               2003         2002         2001
                                            -----------  -----------  -----------
Revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     645,000      223,000            -
Depreciation expense . . . . . . . . . . .      83,000       48,000            -
Loss from operations . . . . . . . . . . .    (408,000)    (193,000)           -
<FN>

     Non-operating income and expenses are not tracked by segment.
</TABLE>


     (r)  INCOME  TAXES

     We account for income taxes under the liability method. Under the liability
method,  deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences
between  financial  reporting  and  tax  base  of assets and liabilities and are
measured  using  enacted  tax  rates  and  laws  that will be in effect when the
differences  are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are established, when
necessary,  to  reduce  tax  assets  to  the  amounts  expected  to be realized.

     (s)  STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION

     We  have  elected  to  follow  Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
Accounting  for  Stock  Issued  to  Employees  (APB  No.  25),  and  related
interpretations,  in  accounting  for  employee  stock  options  rather than the
alternative  fair  value accounting allowed by Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (SFAS No. 123). Under
APB  No.  25,  compensation  expense  related  to  our employee stock options is
measured based on the intrinsic value of the stock option. SFAS No. 123 requires
companies  that continue to follow APB No. 25 to provide pro forma disclosure of
the  impact  from  applying  the  fair  value  method  of  SFAS  No.  123.

     The  assumptions  used to calculate the pro forma effect of the application
of  SFAS  No.  123  and  the  weighted  average  information  are  as  follows:


                                       39
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                       ------------------------
                                   2003           2002           2001
                               -------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                            <C>            <C>            <C>
Risk-free interest rates . .  2.06% - 3.74%  1.45% - 4.03%  2.17% - 5.07%
Expected dividend yield. . .       None           None           None
Expected lives . . . . . . .    5.4 years      7 years        7 years
Expected volatility. . . . .        79%           162%            95%
<FN>

     The effect of applying SFAS No. 123 would be as follows:
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                   ------------------------
                                                              2003          2002          2001
                                                          ------------  ------------  ------------
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>           <C>
Net income (loss) as reported . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $(1,573,000)  $(3,081,000)  $ 2,414,000
Add: Stock-based compensation as reported . . . . . . .      (105,000)      220,000        44,000
Deduct: Stock-based compensation determined under
  FAS 123 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (1,102,000)   (1,506,000)   (1,322,000)
                                                          ------------  ------------  ------------
Pro forma net income (loss) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $(2,780,000)  $(4,367,000)  $ 1,136,000
                                                          ============  ============  ============
Basic and diluted income (loss) per share as reported .   $     (0.14)  $     (0.27)  $      0.22
                                                          ============  ============  ============
Pro forma basic and diluted net income (loss) per share   $     (0.24)  $     (0.39)  $      0.10
                                                          ============  ============  ============
</TABLE>

     We  recognize  compensation expense for options granted to non-employees in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Emerging  Issues  Task Force Issue 96-18,
Accounting  for  Equity  Instruments that are Issued to Other Than Employees for
Acquiring,  or  in  Conjunction  with  Selling, Goods or Services, which require
using  a  fair-value  based  option  pricing  model  and remeasuring the related
compensation  expense  using  the current fair value of such stock options until
the  performance  date  has  been  reached.

     Deferred  stock-based  compensation  consists  of amounts related to common
stock  issued  in  acquisitions,  which  are  subject to cancellation related to
employee  termination. Such amounts are amortized into compensation expense over
the  vesting  period  using  a  graded  vesting  method.  Upon  the  employee
termination,  stock compensation expense related to unvested awards is reversed.

     (t)  OTHER  COMPREHENSIVE  INCOME

     SFAS  No.  130,  Reporting  Comprehensive Income, establishes standards for
reporting  and  display  of  comprehensive  income  and  its  components  in the
financial  statements.  The only item of other comprehensive income (loss) which
we  currently  report  is  foreign  currency  translation  adjustments.

     (u)  RECLASSIFICATION  OF  AMOUNTS

     Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current
year  presentation. Specifically, maintenance update and technical support costs
in  2002  and 2001 have been reclassified from cost of professional services and
other  revenues  to  software  related  cost  of  revenues.

(3)  GOODWILL  AND  OTHER  INTANGIBLES


                                       40
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Goodwill activity was as follows in 2002 and 2003:


<S>                                         <C>
Goodwill at December 31, 2001. . . . . . .  $1,874,000
  Goodwill recorded in acquisition of GraS     126,000
  Acquisition costs. . . . . . . . . . . .      30,000
  Impairment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (800,000)
                                            -----------
Goodwill at December 31, 2002. . . . . .     1,230,000
  Currency translation adjustment. . . . .      32,000
  Impairment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (462,000)
                                            -----------
Goodwill at December 31, 2003. . . . . . .  $  800,000
                                            -----------
</TABLE>


     All  of  the  goodwill  and  goodwill  activity  shown above related to the
International Data Analysis segment, except for goodwill of $240,000 acquired in
the  Waratah  transaction  in 2001, which has remained unchanged at December 31,
2003.

     Upon  adoption of SFAS 142 on January 1, 2002 we performed the transitional
goodwill  impairment  test, which indicated no goodwill impairment. Based on the
results  of our annual goodwill impairment tests as of October 1, 2002 and 2003,
we  recorded  goodwill impairment losses of $800,000 and $259,000, respectively,
arising  from  our Insightful Predict/Germany reporting unit. In addition, as of
October  1,  2003  we  recognized a goodwill impairment loss of $203,000 arising
from  our  Insightful  France  reporting unit.  These goodwill impairment losses
arose  from  a  reduction  in  the estimated future cash flows from these units,
primarily  as  a  result of decreased revenue forecasts based on a more cautious
outlook  for  the  European  region.

     Other intangible assets consist of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       DECEMBER 31, 2003                    DECEMBER 31, 2002
                             ------------------------------------  -----------------------------------
                               GROSS                    OTHER       GROSS                     OTHER
                              CARRYING  ACCUMULATED  INTANGIBLES,  CARRYING   ACCUMULATED  INTANGIBLES,
                              AMOUNT    AMORTIZATION     NET        AMOUNT    AMORTIZATION     NET
                             --------  --------------  --------    --------  --------------  --------
<S>                          <C>       <C>             <C>         <C>       <C>             <C>
Non-compete agreements. . .  $146,000  $    (146,000)  $      -    $146,000  $     (91,000)  $ 55,000
Customer relationships. . .   195,000       (195,000)         -     195,000       (118,000)    77,000
Capitalized patent expenses   262,000       (140,000)   122,000     202,000        (58,000)   144,000
                             --------  --------------  --------    --------  --------------  --------
    Total . . . . . . . . .  $603,000  $    (481,000)  $122,000    $543,000  $    (267,000)  $276,000
                             ========  ==============  ========    ========  ==============  ========
</TABLE>

     Other  intangibles are scheduled to be fully amortized by December 31, 2006
with  corresponding amortization estimated to be $79,000, $35,000 and $8,000 for
2004,  2005  and  2006,  respectively.


                                       41
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

(4)  FINANCING  ARRANGEMENTS

     In  March 2003, we renewed a $3.5 million working capital revolving line of
credit and security agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, or SVB, which expired in
March 2004. This facility is secured by our accounts receivable and allows us to
borrow up to the lesser of (a) 75% of our eligible accounts receivable (advances
against  U.S.  Government  accounts  will  be  permitted up to 20% of the amount
outstanding  under the line of credit) or (b) $3.5 million and bears interest at
the  prime  rate,  which was 4.0% as of December 31, 2003, plus 1%.  At December
31,  2003,  no amounts had been borrowed and $1,445,000 was available for future
borrowings under the line of credit facility.

     In  March  2003,  we  also  renewed  an  equipment  term  loan and security
agreement with SVB which expired in March 2004., This facility allows us to take
advances  on the cost of eligible equipment less than 90 days old and is secured
by  the  underlying  equipment. We borrowed $450,000 under this facility in 2002
and  the  remaining outstanding balance was $290,000 at December 31, 2003. These
term  loan  advances  bear  interest  at  the  prime  rate, which was 4.0% as of
December  31,  2003, plus 1%.  Advances are repaid over a 36-month period.    At
December  31,  2003,  $375,000  was  available  under  this  facility for future
equipment borrowings.

     These  credit  facilities  contain  covenants that limit our net losses and
restrict  the  amount of capital expenditures not financed through the equipment
term  loan.  In  addition,  we  are prohibited from paying dividends. We were in
compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2003.

Future maturities of debt as of December 31, 2003 are:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31,
                                   ------------------------
                               2004        2005     2006    2007  2008  THEREAFTER    TOTAL
                               ----        ----     ----    ----  ----  ----------    -----
<S>                      <C>                        <C>          <C>      <C>   <C>   <C>  <C>

Equipment term loan . .  $   129,000  $   129,000  $32,000     -     -      -        $290,000
</TABLE>


(5)  BUSINESS  RESTRUCTURINGS

     In  November  2001,  July  2002  and  July  2003  we  implemented workforce
reductions  in  order  to  better  align  our  costs with our revenues. The 2001
restructuring  expense  totaled  $455,000  and  resulted  from  the reduction of
approximately  24 employees, or 13% of our employee base at the time. All of the
restructuring  charge  related  to  our  Domestic  Data  Analysis  segment  and
represented  employee  severance  and  termination benefits.  As of December 31,
2001,  $366,000  of  the  severance  and  termination  benefits  related to this
workforce  reduction  had  been  paid and $89,000 remained accrued on that date,
with the remaining benefits paid in 2002.

     The  2002  restructuring  expense  totaled  $501,000  and  resulted  from a
workforce reduction of 31 employees, or 18% of our employee base at the time. Of
the  $501,000  restructuring  charge, $170,000 related to our International Data
Analysis  segment  and  the  remaining $331,000 was attributable to our Domestic
Data Analysis segment. All of the 2002 restructuring charges related to employee
severance  and  termination  benefits.  As of December 31, 2002, $418,000 of the
severance and termination benefits had been paid and $83,000 remained accrued on
that date, with the remaining benefits paid in January 2003.

     The  2003  restructuring  expense totaled $911,000 (all recognized in 2003)
and  included a workforce reduction of 23 employees, or 18% of our employee base
at  the  time.  Of  the  $911,000  restructuring charge, $288,000 related to our
International  Data Analysis segment and the remaining $623,000 was attributable
to  our  Domestic  Data  Analysis  segment.  As  part of this restructuring, the
Company  combined  its German operations with its Swiss subsidiary headquartered
in  Basel,  Switzerland.  On September 30, 2003, Shawn Javid, President and CEO,
resigned  from  the  company.  The 2003 restructuring charges, including charges
associated  with the resignation of Shawn Javid, consisted primarily of employee
severance  and  termination  payments  and lease termination costs, as well as a
$176,000 non-cash compensation charge related to a modification of stock options
upon  termination of Mr. Javid.  As of December 31, 2003 $321,000 in termination
benefits  remained  to  be  paid, of which $257,000 will be paid in 2004 and the
remaining  $64,000  in  2005.


                                       42
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

(6)  PROPERTY  AND  EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment consist of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       DECEMBER 31,
                                                       ------------
                                                    2003         2002
                                                ------------  ----------
<S>                                             <C>           <C>
Computer equipment and software. . . . . . . .  $  3,933,000  $5,300,000
Furniture and fixtures . . . . . . . . . . . .       545,000     529,000
Leasehold improvements . . . . . . . . . . . .       218,000     215,000
                                                ------------  ----------
                                                   4,696,000   6,044,000
Less-Accumulated depreciation and amortization     3,712,000   3,989,000
                                                ------------  ----------
                                                $    984,000  $2,055,000
                                                ============  ==========
</TABLE>

     Depreciation  expense  on  fixed  assets  was  approximately  $1,125,000,
$1,067,000  and  $633,000  for  the  years  ended December 2003, 2002, and 2001,
respectively


(7)  INCOME  TAXES

     Income  (loss)  from  continuing  operations  before taxes consisted of the
following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                            YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                            ------------------------
                         2003          2002         2001
                     ------------  ------------  ----------
<S>                  <C>           <C>           <C>
United States . . . .$  (484,000)  $(2,444,000)  $   9,000
Foreign . . . . . .     (846,000)   (1,265,000)   (592,000)
                     ------------  ------------  ----------
Total . . . . . . .  $(1,330,000)  $(3,709,000)  $(583,000)
                     ============  ============  ==========
</TABLE>


                                       43
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

     The provisions for income taxes consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                        ------------------------
                                                                     2003        2002        2001
                                                                  ----------  ----------  ----------
<S>                                                               <C>         <C>         <C>
Current tax (benefit) expense-
    Federal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           -   $ (98,000)  $  50,000
    State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5,000    (100,000)    140,000
    Foreign . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     101,000    (103,000)     65,000
                                                                  ----------  ----------  ----------
                                                                    106,000    (301,000)    255,000
                                                                  ----------  ----------  ----------
Deferred tax expense (benefit)-
    Federal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     182,000    (483,000)   (818,000)
    State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           -           -           -
                                                                  ----------  ----------  ----------
                                                                    182,000    (483,000)   (818,000)
Increase (decrease) in valuation reserve. . . . . . . . . . . .    (182,000)    483,000     818,000
Tax benefit (expense) relating to discontinued operations . . .           -     100,000    (140,000)
                                                                  ----------  ----------  ----------
        Income tax (benefit) provision relating to continuing
          operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $ 106,000   $(201,000)  $ 115,000
                                                                  ==========  ==========  ==========
</TABLE>

     A reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to our effective tax rate is
     as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                            ------------------------
                                                             2003     2002     2001
                                                            -------  -------  -------
<S>                                                         <C>      <C>      <C>
Income tax provision (benefit) at federal statutory rate .  (34.0)%  (34.0)%  (34.0)%
Increase (decrease) in tax resulting from-
  State tax provision, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   0.2        -        -
  Foreign tax provision. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7.0     (2.7)    11.2
  Other permanent items. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11.7      0.5      3.8
  Alternative Minimum Tax. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     -        -      8.6
  Research credit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4.5      3.5        -
  Acquisition related. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     -      8.9        -
  Other. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (0.7)     6.5        -
  Operating losses providing no current benefit. . . . . .  18.6     11.9     30.1
                                                          -------  -------  -------
                                                             7.3%   (5.4)%    19.7%
                                                          =======  =======  =======
</TABLE>

     At December 31, 2003, we have available net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately  $22,464,000  and  tax  credit  carryforwards  of  approximately
$2,210,000.  The  net  operating loss carryforwards may be used to offset future
federal  taxable  income through the year ending December 31, 2022 while the tax
credit  carryforwards  may be used to offset future federal income taxes through
the year ending December 31, 2021. The Internal Revenue Code contains provisions
that  limit the net operating loss and credit carryforwards available to be used
in  any  given year upon the occurrence of certain events, including significant
changes  in ownership interests. Approximately $3.3 million of the net operating
losses  generated  for  federal  income tax purposes are not available to reduce
income  tax  expense for financial reporting purposes because the tax effects of
tax  deductions  for  employee  stock options in excess of the related financial
reporting  compensation  expense  are  recognized through equity.  To the extent
that net operating losses, when realized, relate to stock option deductions, the
resulting  benefits  will  be  credited  to  shareholders'  equity.

     A  valuation  allowance  has been established to reflect the uncertainty of
generating  future  taxable  income  necessary  to  utilize  available  tax loss
carryforwards.


                                       44
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003

     The  significant  components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are
as  follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        DECEMBER 31,
                                                                        ------------
                                                                   2003           2002
                                                               -------------  -------------
<S>                                                            <C>            <C>
Net operating loss carryforward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $  7,551,000   $  7,623,000
Accounts receivable reserves. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        69,000        108,000
Accrued liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       718,000        462,000
Research and development and other tax credit carryforwards .     2,185,000      2,512,000
                                                               -------------  -------------
                                                                 10,523,000     10,705,000
Valuation allowance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   (10,523,000)   (10,705,000)
                                                               -------------  -------------
    Net deferred tax asset. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $          -   $          -
                                                               =============  =============
</TABLE>

     Due  to  the  uncertainty  surrounding  the realization of its deferred tax
assets,  we  have  recorded  a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax
assets.  The valuation allowance decreased by $182,000 during 2003 and increased
by  $482,000  and  $818,000  in  2002  and  2001,  respectively.

(8)  COMMITMENTS  AND  CONTINGENCIES

     We  have  non-cancelable  operating  leases  for our various facilities and
certain  office  and  other  equipment. The future minimum commitments under our
non-cancelable operating lease arrangements, exclusive of operating costs are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31,
- ------------------------
<S>                       <C>
2004 . . . . . . . . . .  $  773,000
2005 . . . . . . . . . .     167,000
2006 . . . . . . . . . .     130,000
2007 . . . . . . . . . .     110,000
2008 . . . . . . . . . .      47,000
Thereafter . . . . . . .      63,000
                          ----------
                          $1,290,000
                          ==========
</TABLE>

     Rental  expense  under  our  operating  leases  was approximately $991,000,
973,000  and  $861,000  for  the  years  ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively.


                                       45
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003


     In  certain  of  our  licensing agreements we provide intellectual property
infringement  indemnifications.  These  indemnifications  are  excluded from the
initial  recognition and measurement requirements of FASB Interpretation No. 45,
Guarantor's  Accounting  and  Disclosure  Requirements for Guarantees. Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others. The Company's policy is to record
any  obligation  under  such  indemnification when a required payment under such
indemnification  is  probable and the amount of the future loss is estimable. At
December  31,  2003  and  2002  there  were no such indemnifications for which a
required  payment  was deemed to be probable or estimable; therefore, no accrual
has  been  made  for  potential  losses  associated with these indemnifications.

     On  or  about  December 13, 2002, Wajih Alaiyan, a former employee of ours,
filed  a complaint against us in the Superior Court for King County, Washington.
Mr.  Alaiyan alleges that his employment was wrongfully terminated, and he seeks
an  unspecified  amount  of  damages.  We  deny  Mr.  Alaiyan's  claim  and will
vigorously  defend  the  lawsuit.  An evaluation of the likelihood of an adverse
outcome  cannot  be  expressed  with  sufficient  certainty  at  this  time.  An
unfavorable  outcome  could  have  a  material effect on our operating position,
results  of  operations,  and  cash  flows.

(9)    STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     (a)  STOCK OPTION PLANS

     Under  the  Company's 2001 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the 2001 Plan),
the  Board  of  Directors  may grant incentive stock options, nonqualified stock
options,  awards  of common stock and authorizations to make direct purchases of
Insightful's  stock  to  eligible employees and others, as defined. In 2002, the
stockholders  approved  automatically  increasing the number of shares of common
stock  issuable  under the plan by 7% or 1 million shares, whichever is less, at
the  commencement  of  each  year.  The  options typically vest over a four-year
period.  At  December  31,  2003,  we  had 1,772,000 shares available for future
options  grants  under  the  2001  Plan. On January 1, 2004 the number of shares
issuable  under  the  Plan  was  increased  by  803,000.

     The  Company  has  a 2001 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (the 2001
Directors' Plan) under which our non-employee directors receive annual grants to
purchase  shares  of  our  common stock. All of our option grants under the 2001
Directors'  Plan  are  made  at or above fair market value at the time of grant.
These  options  are exercisable upon grant. At December 31, 2003, we had 840,000
options  available  for  future  grant  under  the  2001  Directors'  Plan.

     We  also  have  a  Non-Qualified,  Non-Officer  Stock Option Plan (the 1996
Non-Officer  Plan)  under  which  employees and consultants to Insightful can be
granted  nonqualified  options to purchase stock. The vesting of options granted
under  the 1996 Non-Officer Plan is determined at the date of grant. Each option
expires  10  years from the date of grant, subject to earlier termination if the
optionee ceases to serve Insightful other than by reason of death or disability,
and  is not transferable. At December 31, 2003, we had 176,000 options available
for  future  grant  under  the  1996  Non-Officer  Plan.


                                       46
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003


Our stock option activity for all plans is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               WEIGHTED
                                                AVERAGE
                                   NUMBER OF   EXERCISE
                                    SHARES       PRICE
                                  -----------  ---------
<S>                               <C>          <C>
Outstanding at January 1, 2001     2,860,000   $    2.81
     Granted                       1,734,000   $    2.34
     Exercised                      (230,000)  $    1.80
     Canceled                       (977,000)  $    2.94
                                  -----------
Outstanding at December 31, 2001   3,387,000   $    2.61
     Granted                         824,000   $    1.50
     Exercised                      (122,000)  $    2.37
     Canceled                     (1,049,000)  $    2.71
                                  -----------
Outstanding at December 31, 2002   3,040,000   $    2.28
                                  -----------
     Granted                         369,000   $    1.16
     Exercised                       (40,000)  $    1.40
     Canceled                       (807,000)  $    2.08
                                  -----------
Outstanding at December 31, 2003   2,562,000   $    2.18
                                  ===========

Exercisable at December 31, 2003   1,693,000   $    2.43
Exercisable at December 31, 2002   1,410,000   $    2.69
Exercisable at December 31, 2001   1,435,000   $    2.85
</TABLE>

     The weighted average fair value as of the grant dates of options granted in
2003, 2002, and 2001 was $0.80, $1.46, and $1.81, respectively.

     The  following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
and exercisable at December 31, 2003:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      OPTIONS OUTSTANDING                  OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                                    WEIGHTED AVERAGE
RANGE OF                               REMAINING      WEIGHTED AVERAGE              WEIGHTED AVERAGE
EXERCISE PRICES        SHARES       CONTRACTUAL LIFE   EXERCISE PRICE     SHARES    EXERCISE PRICE
- ----------------  ----------------  ----------------  -----------------  ---------  ---------------
<S>               <C>               <C>               <C>                <C>        <C>
..97 - 1.28                 647,000        8.84 years  $            1.20    223,000  $          1.24
1.31 - 1.75                721,000        7.49 years               1.66    473,000             1.67
1.84 - 2.69                678,000        6.41 years               2.35    569,000             2.37
2.75 - 5.56                516,000        4.41 years               3.89    428,000             3.94
                  ----------------
..97 - 5.50              2,562,000        6.92 years  $            2.18  1,693,000  $          2.43
                  ================                                       =========
</TABLE>

     (b)  EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

     We  have  an  employee  stock  purchase  plan  (ESPP)  that allows eligible
employees to purchase Insightful common stock at the lesser of 85% of fair value
on  certain  prescribed dates as defined in the ESPP, through payroll deductions
of  up  to  10% of compensation. During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002,
and  2001,  we  issued  20,000,  70,000,  and  66,000  shares  under  the  ESPP,
respectively.  As  of  December  31,  2003,  300,000 shares remain available for
future  purchase.


                                       47
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003


     (c)  WARRANTS

     In  conjunction  with  the  2001  acquisition of a data analysis consulting
business  from  Waratah  Corporation  (see Note 11), warrants to purchase 20,000
shares  of  common stock at an exercise price of $2.90 were issued. The warrants
expire  on  July  13, 2006 and were valued at $41,000 based on the Black-Scholes
model.

     (d)  COMMON SHARES RESERVED

     At  December  31,  2003  common  stock  reserved for future issuance was as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                                <C>
          Outstanding stock options . . . . . . . .  2,562,000
          Stock options available for grant . . . .  2,788,000
          ESPP. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    408,000
          Warrants to purchase common stock . . . .     20,000
                                                     ---------
                                                     5,778,000
                                                     =========
</TABLE>

(10) 401(K)  RETIREMENT  PLAN

     We  sponsor  a  401(k)  plan that is available to all employees who satisfy
certain  eligibility requirements relating to minimum age, length of service and
hours  worked.  Eligible  employees  may  elect to contribute up to 20% of their
pre-tax  gross  earnings,  subject  to  statutory  limitations regarding maximum
contributions.  We  match  employees'  contributions  at  the  discretion of our
management.  No  contributions  were  made  by  the company during 2003 or 2002.
Amounts  charged  to  expense  for  matching  contributions  were  approximately
$177,000  in  2001.

(11) ACQUISITIONS

     On  January  1,  2002,  we  completed  the  acquisition  of a data analysis
software  business  from  Graphische  Systeme  GmbH  (GraS),  our  former German
distributor.  The  acquisition provided us with an expanded direct sales channel
in Germany. Consideration for the acquisition was cash of $157,000. In July 2003
the  German  operations  were  combined with our Swiss subsidiary and the German
office  was  closed  as  part  of  a corporate restructuring to align costs with
revenues.

     In  September  2001,  we completed the acquisition of Predict AG (Predict).
This acquisition provided us with a European professional services headquarters.
The  aggregate  consideration  was $2,214,000, consisting of cash of $1,466,000,
common  stock  valued  at  $691,000 and direct transaction costs of $57,000. The
value  of  the 300,000 shares of common stock issued was determined based on the
average  market  price  of  our  common stock over a three-day period before and
after the date of acquisition.

     In  July  2001,  we completed the acquisition of a data analysis consulting
business  from  Waratah  Corporation. This acquisition provided us with expanded
resources,  while  establishing  an  East Coast consulting office. The aggregate
consideration paid was $304,000 consisting of $150,000 cash, common stock valued
at  $99,000,  a  common  stock  warrant valued at $41,000 and direct transaction
costs  of  $14,000.  The value of the 34,530 common shares issued was determined
based  on  the average market price of our common shares over a three-day period
before and after the date of acquisition. The warrant (to purchase 20,000 shares
of  common  stock, at an exercise price of $2.90, and expiring on July 13, 2006)
was valued using the Black-Scholes model.

     In  July  2001,  we  acquired  the  data  analysis  software  distribution
operations  of  Sigma-Plus,  our longtime distributor in France. The acquisition
provided us with an expanded direct sales channel and local consulting resources
in  Paris  and  Toulouse. The aggregate consideration was $255,000 consisting of
$212,000 cash and direct transaction costs of $43,000.

     The  results of GraS, Predict, Waratah and Sigma Plus have been included in
our operating results since their respective acquisition dates.


                                       48
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003


     The following table summarizes the allocation of the purchase price of each
acquisition to the assets acquired (thousands omitted):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           PREDICT   WARATAH   SIGMA-PLUS   GRAS
<S>                                                       <C>        <C>       <C>          <C>
Current assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .$     385   $      -  $         -  $   -
Property, plant, and equipment. . . . . . . . . . . . . .      159         20            1      -
Non-compete agreements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       51         44           51      -
Customer relationships. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     164          -            -     31
Goodwill. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,374        240          203    126
                                                          ---------  --------  -----------  -----
     Total assets acquired. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2,133        304          255    157
Current liabilities assumed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (345)         -            -      -
                                                          ---------  --------  -----------  -----
Total purchase price. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1,788        304          255    157
Deferred stock-based compensation . . . . . . . . . . . .      426          -            -      -
                                                          ---------  --------  -----------  -----
     Total consideration, including deferred stock-based
       compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $  2,214   $    304  $       255  $ 157
                                                          =========  ========  ===========  =====
</TABLE>

     Of the $800,000 in goodwill at December 31, 2003, approximately $240,000 is
deductible for tax purposes.

     Non-compete agreements.    The value assigned to the non-compete agreements
was  determined  using  the  income approach giving consideration to the desire,
effectiveness  and feasibility of effective competition by the covenantor in the
absence of the covenant.

     Customer  relationships.    The  value  assigned the customer relationships
was determined using the discounted cash flow approach. Under this approach, all
relevant  facts and circumstances affecting future cash flows are considered and
the  determined  fair values are based upon estimations of underlying cash flows
to  be  received,  discounted  to  their present value using appropriate current
market interest rates.

     The  lives assigned to the identified intangible assets described above are
two years. Amortization expense for these intangibles was $133,000, $169,000 and
$39,000  in  2003,  2002  and  2001, respectively, and was recorded based on the
straight-line  method.

     Goodwill.    The  excess  of  the purchase price over the fair value of the
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.

     Deferred  stock-based  compensation.    In  connection  with the employment
agreements  and  related  stock retention agreements with three of Predict's key
employees, 185,010 shares of Insightful common stock otherwise issuable to these
employees pursuant to the purchase agreement are subject to restriction, and are
being  released from the restriction over a three-year vesting period. The value
of  the  restricted  shares  of  $426,000  was  recorded as deferred stock-based
compensation  and  is  being  amortized over a three-year vesting period using a
graded  vesting  approach.  During 2002, the eligibility requirements related to
the  stock  issued  to  one  individual  were  waived  pursuant to an employment
termination settlement. Accordingly, remaining deferred stock-based compensation
of  $51,000 relating to that employee's rescinded shares was recognized as stock
compensation  expense. Amortization of deferred stock-based compensation arising
from  the  restricted  stock was $34,000, $220,000 and $44,000 in 2003, 2002 and
2001,  respectively,  offset  by  a  reversal of $139,000 in 2003.  In the first
quarter  of  2003,  $139,000  of  deferred  stock  based  compensation  expense
previously  recognized  was  reversed  as  a  result  of termination of employee
holders  of  116,000  restricted shares issued in the acquisition of Predict AG.
As  of  December  31,  2003,  there  were  no  remaining  shares  subject to the
restriction.

     The unaudited pro forma combined historical results of operations for 2001,
as  if the businesses acquired in 2001 had been acquired on January 1, 2001, are
as  follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001
                                                                              PRO FORMA
                                                                    ------------------------------
<S>                                                                 <C>
Total revenues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $                  19,751,000
Amortization of intangibles and deferred stock-based compensation
  Expense. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       (214,000)
Income from continuing operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       (897,000)
Net income (loss). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      2,214,000
Basic net income (loss) per share. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           0.20
Diluted net income (loss) per share. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                           0.20
</TABLE>


                                       49
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003


     The  pro  forma  information does not reflect the results of GraS which are
immaterial.  In  addition,  the  pro  forma  information  does not purport to be
indicative  of  the  results  that  would  have  been  attained had these events
occurred  at  the  beginning  of  the  period  presented  and is not necessarily
indicative of future results.

(12) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

     In  January  2004,  we  signed  an  agreement  with Lucent Technologies to
acquire  the  copyrights  to  the  software  code underlying the "S" Programming
language  for $2.0 million. Prior to this agreement we were a worldwide licensee
of  the  "S"  programming  language  from  Lucent  Technologies  Inc. Under that
license,  we  had  the  right to use, sublicense and support the "S" language in
exchange  for  royalties,  with a minimum annual exclusivity fee of $450,000 and
variable  royalties of 3% to 6% of revenues. Of the $2.0 million purchase price,
$1.5 million was paid in January 2004 with the remaining $0.5 million to be paid
in January 2005. As a result of this transaction, $1,779,000 will be capitalized
as  an  intangible  asset,  representing the price paid less amounts owed and no
longer  payable,  and  will  be  amortized  over  a  3-year  life.

     On  March  27, 2004 we renewed our credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank
on  substantially  the  same  terms  as  the  prior  credit  line  and term loan
agreement.


                                       50
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003


(13) VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

     A  rollforward  of  the  allowance  for doubtful accounts and allowance for
sales  returns  for  the  years  ended  December  31,  2003, 2002 and 2001 is as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 BALANCE,      CHARGED TO
                                               BEGINNING OF    OPERATING                    BALANCE, END OF
                                                  PERIOD       RESULTS(2)     DEDUCTIONS(1)     PERIOD
<S>                                            <C>            <C>           <C>                <C>
Year Ended December 31, 2003:
    Allowance for doubtful accounts . . . . .  $     176,000  $   210,000   $        (96,000)  $290,000
    Allowance for sales returns . . . . . . .        129,000      (61,000)           (25,000)    43,000
                                               -------------  ------------  -----------------  --------
        Total reserve for accounts receivable  $     305,000  $   149,000   $       (121,000)  $333,000
                                               =============  ============  =================  ========

Year Ended December 31, 2002:
    Allowance for doubtful accounts . . . . .  $     135,000  $    66,000   $         25,000   $176,000
    Allowance for sales returns . . . . . . .        133,000      189,000            193,000    129,000
                                               -------------  ------------  -----------------  --------
        Total reserve for accounts receivable  $     268,000  $   255,000   $        218,000   $305,000
                                               =============  ============  =================  ========

Year Ended December 31, 2001:
    Allowance for doubtful accounts . . . . .  $     112,000  $    65,000   $         42,000   $135,000
    Allowance for sales returns . . . . . . .        270,000     (108,000)            29,000    133,000
                                               -------------  ------------  -----------------  --------
        Total reserve for accounts receivable  $     382,000  $   (43,000)  $         71,000   $268,000
                                               =============  ============  =================  ========
<FN>
_______________
(1)   Deductions  for accounts receivable represent accounts written off, net of recoveries. Deductions
      for  sales  returns  represent  product  returns  received.

(2)   The  2001  and  2003 reductions in the charges to revenue for the allowance for sales returns was
      attributable to a reduction in the required reserve based on updated customer returns history and
      a shift  in  revenues  towards  consulting services in 2001. Our provision for sales returns is
      estimated based on historical returns experience and our judgment of future return risk.
</TABLE>

(14) GEOGRAPHIC DATA

     We report consolidated operating results based on geographic areas. A
summary of key financial data by region is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         UNITED STATES    FOREIGN       TOTAL
                                         --------------  ----------  -----------
<S>                                      <C>             <C>         <C>
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003
Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $   11,729,000  $5,488,000  $17,217,000
Long-lived assets . . . . . . . . . . .       1,033,000     926,000    1,959,000
Total Net Assets. . . . . . . . . . . .       2,255,000   1,602,000    3,857,000

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002
Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $   11,225,000  $5,169,000  $16,394,000
Long-lived assets . . . . . . . . . . .       1,976,000   1,634,000    3,610,000
Total Net Assets. . . . . . . . . . . .       3,575,000   1,862,000    5,437,000

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001
Revenue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $   13,463,000  $3,963,000  $17,426,000
Long-lived assets . . . . . . . . . . .       2,274,000   2,128,000    4,402,000
Total Net Assets. . . . . . . . . . . .       4,675,000   2,761,000    7,437,000
</TABLE>


                                       51
<PAGE>
                     INSIGHTFUL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(CONTINUED)

                                DECEMBER 31, 2003


(15) UNAUDITED QUARTERLY DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        2003
                                                                        ----
                                                    Q1            Q2          Q3(1)         Q4(2)
                                                    --            --          -----         -----
<S>                                             <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>
Revenue                                         $4,296,000   $ 4,314,000   $ 4,024,000   $ 4,583,000
Gross profit                                     3,071,000     3,042,000     2,999,000     3,615,000
Income (loss) from continuing operations          (355,000)     (300,000)     (990,000)      209,000
Loss from discontinued operations                        -      (137,000)            -             -
Net income (loss)                                 (355,000)     (437,000)     (990,000)      209,000
Basic and diluted net income (loss) per share        (0.03)        (0.04)        (0.09)         0.02

                                                                        2002
                                                                        ----
                                                    Q1            Q2          Q3(1)         Q4(2)
                                                    --            --          -----         -----
Revenue                                         $4,391,000   $ 3,883,000   $ 3,870,000   $ 4,250,000
Gross profit                                     2,893,000     2,425,000     2,676,000     3,023,000
Loss from continuing operations                   (216,000)   (1,020,000)   (1,145,000)   (1,127,000)
Gain on disposal of discontinued operations              -       327,000       100,000             -
Net loss                                          (216,000)     (693,000)   (1,045,000)   (1,127,000)
Basic and diluted loss per share                     (0.02)        (0.06)        (0.09)        (0.10)
<FN>


_______________
(1)  We  incurred  a loss from continuing operations of $990,000 in the third quarter of 2003 that
     included  a  restructuring  charge  of  $911,000.

(2)  We generated income from continuing operations of $209,000 in the fourth quarter of 2003 that
     included  a  loss  from  impairment  of  goodwill  charge  of  $462,000.

(3)  We incurred a loss from continuing operations of $1,145,000 in the third quarter of 2002 that
     included  a  restructuring  charge  of  $501,000.

(4)  We  incurred  a  loss  from continuing operations of $1,127,000 in the fourth quarter of 2002
     that  included  a  loss  from  impairment  of  goodwill  charge  of  $800,000.
</TABLE>


                                       52
<PAGE>
ITEM 9.  CHANGES  IN  AND  DISAGREEMENTS  WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE.

     There  were  no  disagreements  with  our  accountants  on  accounting  and
financial  disclosure  in  2003.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS  AND  PROCEDURES.

     Evaluation  of  disclosure  controls  and  procedures.  Our chief executive
officer  and  our chief financial officer, after evaluating the effectiveness of
our  "disclosure  controls  and  procedures"  (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of the end of the period
covered  by  this  annual  report,  have  concluded  that,  as of that date, our
disclosure  controls  and procedures were effective in ensuring that information
required  to  be  disclosed  by  us  in  this  annual  report is accumulated and
communicated  by  our  management,  to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.



                                       53
<PAGE>
                                    PART III

ITEM  10.     DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS.

     (a)  The  information  regarding  our  directors  required  by this item is
incorporated  into  this  annual  report  by  reference  to the section entitled
"Proposal 1: Election of Director" in the proxy statement for our annual meeting
of  stockholders  to  be  held  on  June  11,  2004.

     (b)  The information regarding our executive officers required by this item
is  incorporated  into  this  annual report by reference to the section entitled
"Executive  Officers"  in  the  proxy  statement  for  our  annual  meeting  of
stockholders  to  be  held  on  June  11,  2004.

     (c)  The  information regarding our Code of Ethics required by this item is
incorporated  into  this  annual  report  by  reference  to the section entitled
"Corporate  Governance"  in  the  proxy  statement  for  our  annual  meeting of
stockholders  to  be  held  on  June  11,  2004.

     We  will  file  the  proxy  statement  for  our  2004  annual  meeting  of
stockholders  within  120  days  of  December  31,  2003,  our  fiscal year-end.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION.

     The  information  regarding executive compensation required by this item is
incorporated  into  this  annual  report  by  reference  to the section entitled
"Summary  Compensation  Table"  in the proxy statement for our annual meeting of
stockholders  to  be held on June 11, 2004. We will file the proxy statement for
our  2004  annual  meeting of stockholders within 120 days of December 31, 2003,
our  fiscal  year-end.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The information regarding beneficial ownership of our common stock required
by this item is incorporated into this annual report by reference to the section
entitled  "Security  Ownership  of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" and
"Equity  Compensation  Plan  Information"  in  the  proxy statement for our 2004
annual  meeting  of  stockholders  to be held on June 11, 2004. We will file the
proxy  statement  within  120  days  of  December 31, 2003, our fiscal year-end.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS.

     The  information  regarding  certain relationships and related transactions
required  by  this  item is incorporated into this annual report by reference to
the  section  entitled  "Certain  Relationships and Related Transactions" in the
proxy  statement  for our 2004 annual meeting of stockholders to be held on June
11, 2004. We will file the proxy statement within 120 days of December 31, 2003,
our  fiscal  year-end.

ITEM 14.  PRINCIPAL  ACCOUNTANT  FEES  AND  SERVICES.

     The  information  regarding principal accountant fees and services required
by this item is incorporated into this annual report by reference to the section
entitled  "Independent  Auditors"  in  the  proxy  statement for our 2004 annual
meeting  of  stockholders  to  be  held on June 11, 2004. We will file the proxy
statement  within  120  days  of  December  31,  2003,  our  fiscal  year-end.


                                       54
<PAGE>
PART  IV

ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a)  The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

          1.    Financial Statements.  The following consolidated financial
     statements of Insightful Corporation are filed  as  part  of  this  report.

     Report of Independent Public Accountants.

     Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002.

     Consolidated  Statements  of  Operations  for  the years ended December 31,
     2003,  2002  and  2001.

     Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity  for  the  years  ended
     December  31,  2003,  2002  and  2001.

     Consolidated  Statements  of  Cash  Flows  for the years ended December 31,
     2003,  2002  and  2001.

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

          2.    Schedules.  Schedules have been omitted  because  they  are  not
     applicable  or are not required or the information required to be set forth
     in  the  Schedules  is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or
     related  notes.

          3.    Exhibits.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
EXHIBIT
NUMBER                                   DESCRIPTION
- -------                                  -----------
<S>        <C>
    3.1    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the registrant (Exhibit 3.1) (A)

    3.2    Amended and Restated Bylaws of the registrant (Exhibit 3.2) (A)

   10.1    1996 Non-Qualified, Non-Officer Stock Option Plan (Exhibit 4.4) (B)

   10.2    2001 Stock Option and Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (Exhibit 10.1) (C)

   10.3    2001 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated (Exhibit 10.2) (C)

   10.4    Amended and Restated 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Exhibit 10.1) (D)

   10.5*   Software License Agreement, dated February 18, 1996, by and between the registrant and Lucent Technologies,
           Inc. (Exhibit 10.1) (E)

   10.6*   Amendment to Software License Agreement, dated September 25, 1997, by and between the registrant and Lucent
           Technologies, Inc. (Exhibit 10.20) (F)

   10.7*   Intellectual Property Agreement, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and between the registrant and MathSoft
           Engineering & Education, Inc. (Exhibit 2.2) (G)

   10.8    License Agreement, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and between the registrant and MathSoft Engineering &
           Education, Inc. (Exhibit 2.4) (G)

   10.9    Right of First Offer to Exclusive Commercial License, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and between the registrant
           and MathSoft Engineering & Education, Inc. (Exhibit 2.5) (G)

  10.10    Non-Competition Agreement, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and between the registrant and MathSoft Corporate
           Holdings, Inc. (Exhibit 2.6) (G)

  10.11    Transition Services Agreement, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and among the registrant, MathSoft Engineering
           & Education, Inc. and MathSoft Corporate Holdings, Inc. (Exhibit 2.7) (G)

  10.12    Trademark License Agreement, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and between the registrant and MathSoft
           Engineering & Education, Inc. (Exhibit 2.8) (G)

  10.13    Pledge Agreement dated as of September 10, 2001, by and between the registrant and Patrick Schuenemann
           (Exhibit 10.1) (H)

  10.14    Satisfaction, Release and Termination Agreement, dated January 8, 2002, by and between the registrant and Charles
           Digate. (Exhibit 10.1) (I)

  10.15    Loan and Security Agreement, dated March 29, 2002, by and between the registrant and Silicon Valley Bank
           (Exhibit 10.2) (J)


                                       55
<PAGE>
EXHIBIT
NUMBER                                   DESCRIPTION
- -------                                  -----------

  10.16    Negative Pledge Agreement, dated March 29, 2002, by and between the registrant and Silicon Valley Bank (Exhibit
           10.3) (J)

  10.17    Loan Modification Agreement, dated August 15, 2002, by and between the registrant and Silicon Valley Bank
           (Exhibit 10.1) (K)

  10.18    Amendment No. 1 to Loan and Security Agreement, dated March 28, 2003, by and between the registrant and
           Silicon Valley Bank (Exhibit 10.1) (L)

  10.19    Assignment and License Agreement, effective January 19, 2004, between Lucent Technologies and the registrant
           (Exhibit 10.1) (M)

   21.1**  Subsidiaries of the registrant

   23.1**  Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors

   24.1**  Power of attorney (contained on signature page)

   31.1**  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange
           Act of 1934, as amended

   31.2**  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange
           Act of 1934, as amended

   32.1**  Certification of Chief Executive Officer furnished pursuant to Rules 13a-14(b) and 15d-14(b) under the Securities
           Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-
           Oxley Act of 2002

   32.2**  Certification of Chief Financial Officer furnished pursuant to Rules 13a-14(b) and 15d-14(b) under the Securities
           Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-
           Oxley Act of 2002
<FN>

_______________________________
**   Filed  herewith.
 *   Confidential  treatment  granted  by  order  of  the  SEC.
(A)     Incorporated  by  reference  to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter  ended  September  30,  2001  (SEC  File  No.  0-20992),  filed  on  November  14,  2001.
(B)     Incorporated  by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (SEC
File  No.  333-18245),  filed  December  19,  1996.
(C)     Incorporated  by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (SEC
File  No.  333-91878),  filed  July  3,  2002.
(D)     Incorporated  by  reference  to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter  ended  June  30,  2002  (SEC  File  No.  0-20992),  filed  August  14,  2002.
(E)     Incorporated  by  reference  to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter  ended  December  31,  1996  (SEC  File  No.  0-20992),  filed  February  14,  1997.
(F)     Incorporated  by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended  June  30,  1997  (SEC  File  No.  0-20992),  filed  September  29,  1997.
(G)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K (SEC File No.
0-20992),  filed  February  7,  2001.
(H)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K (SEC File No.
0-20992),  filed  October  10,  2001.
(I)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K (SEC File No.
0-20992),  filed  January  31,  2002.
(J)     Incorporated  by  reference  to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter  ended  March  31,  2002  (SEC  File  No.  0-20992),  filed  May  15,  2002.
(K)     Incorporated  by  reference  to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter  ended  September  30,  2002  (SEC  File  No.  0-20992),  filed  November  14,  2002.
(L)     Incorporated  by  reference  to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter  ended  March  31,  2003  (SEC  File  No.  0-20992),  filed  May  15,  2003.
(M)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K (SEC File No.
0-20992),  filed  February  3,  2004.
</TABLE>


                                       56
<PAGE>
     (b)  Reports on Form 8-k

     On  October  1, 2003, we filed a current report on Form 8-K to announce the
resignation  of  our  chief  executive officer and the appointment of an interim
chief  executive  officer.

     On October 30, 2003, we furnished a current report on Form 10-K to announce
our  financial  results  for  the  quarter  ended  September  30,  2003.



                                       57
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant  to  the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be  signed  on  its  behalf  by  the  undersigned,  thereunto  duly  authorized.

April 14, 2004
                                     INSIGHTFUL  CORPORATION

                                     By:     /s/ Jeffrey E. Coombs
                                         -----------------------------
                                                 Jeffrey Coombs
                                      President and Chief Executive Officer
                                          (Principal Executive Officer)



                                     By:     /s/ Fred Schapelhouman
                                         -----------------------------
                                                Fred Schapelhouman
                                              Chief Financial Officer
                                    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)




                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

     Each  person whose individual signature appears below hereby authorizes and
appoints  Kenneth  J.  Moyle, Jr. and Fred Schapelhouman, and each of them, with
full  power of substitution and resubstitution and full power to act without the
other,  as  his  true  and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent to act in his name,
place  and  stead  and  to  execute  in  the  name and on behalf of each person,
individually  and  in  each  capacity  stated  below,  and  to file, any and all
amendments  to this report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and
other  documents  in  connection  therewith,  with  the  Securities and Exchange
Commission,  granting  unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them,
full  power  and  authority  to  do  and  perform  each and every act and thing,
ratifying  and  confirming  all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them  or  their  or his substitute or substitutes may lawfully do or cause to be
done  by  virtue  thereof.

     Pursuant  to  the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report  has  been  signed  below  by  the  following  persons  on  behalf of the
registrant  and  in  the  capacities  and  on  the  dates  indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          SIGNATURE                                    TITLE                             DATE
          ---------                                    -----                             ----
<S>                              <C>                                                <C>

/s/    JEFFREY E. COOMBS         President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal   April 13, 2004
- -------------------------------      Executive Officer)
Jeffrey E. Coombs

/s/    Fred Schapelhouman        Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and   April 13, 2004
- -------------------------------      Accounting Officer)
Fred Schapelhouman

/s/    Arthur H. Reidel          Director                                           April 13, 2004
- -------------------------------
Arthur H. Reidel

/s/    Christopher C. Covington  Director                                           April 13, 2004
- -------------------------------
Christopher C. Covington

 /s/    Mark C. Ozur             Director                                           April 13, 2004
- -------------------------------
Mark C. Ozur

/s/    Samuel R. Meshberg        Chairman of the Board of Directors                 April 13, 2004
- -------------------------------
Samuel R. Meshberg
</TABLE>


                                       58
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           EXHIBIT INDEX


 EXHIBIT
 NUMBER                                           DESCRIPTION
- ---------                                         -----------
<S>        <C>
    3.1    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the registrant (Exhibit 3.1) (A)

    3.2    Amended and Restated Bylaws of the registrant (Exhibit 3.2) (A)

   10.1    1996 Non-Qualified, Non-Officer Stock Option Plan (Exhibit 4.4) (B)

   10.2    2001 Stock Option and Incentive Plan, as amended and restated (Exhibit 10.1) (C)

   10.3    2001 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated (Exhibit 10.2) (C)

   10.4    Amended and Restated 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated (Exhibit 10.1) (D)

  10.5*    Software License Agreement, dated February 18, 1996, by and between the registrant and Lucent Technologies, Inc.
           (Exhibit 10.1) (E)

  10.6*    Amendment to Software License Agreement, dated September 25, 1997, by and between the registrant and Lucent
           Technologies, Inc. (Exhibit 10.20) (F)

   10.7    Intellectual Property Agreement, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and between the registrant and MathSoft
           Engineering & Education, Inc. (Exhibit 2.2) (G)

   10.8    License Agreement, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and between the registrant and MathSoft Engineering &
           Education, Inc. (Exhibit 2.4) (G)

   10.9    Right of First Offer to Exclusive Commercial License, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and between the registrant
           and MathSoft Engineering & Education, Inc. (Exhibit 2.5) (G)

  10.10    Non-Competition Agreement, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and between the registrant and MathSoft Corporate
           Holdings, Inc. (Exhibit 2.6) (G)

  10.11    Transition Services Agreement, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and among the registrant, MathSoft Engineering &
           Education, Inc. and MathSoft Corporate Holdings, Inc. (Exhibit 2.7) (G)

  10.12    Trademark License Agreement, dated as of January 23, 2001, by and between the registrant and MathSoft
           Engineering & Education, Inc. (Exhibit 2.8) (G)

  10.13    Pledge Agreement dated as of September 10, 2001, by and between the registrant and Patrick Schuenemann (Exhibit
           10.1) (H)

  10.14    Satisfaction, Release and Termination Agreement, dated January 8, 2002, by and between the registrant and Charles
           Digate. (Exhibit 10.1) (I)

  10.15    Loan and Security Agreement, dated March 29, 2002, by and between the registrant and Silicon Valley Bank
           (Exhibit 10.2) (J)

  10.16    Negative Pledge Agreement, dated March 29, 2002, by and between the registrant and Silicon Valley Bank (Exhibit
           10.3) (J)

  10.17    Loan Modification Agreement, dated August 15, 2002, by and between the registrant and Silicon Valley Bank
           (Exhibit 10.1) (K)

  10.18    Amendment No. 1 to Loan and Security Agreement, dated March 28, 2003, by and between the registrant and Silicon
           Valley Bank (Exhibit 10.1) (L)

  10.19    Assignment and License Agreement, effective January 19, 2004, between Lucent Technologies and the registrant
           (Exhibit 10.1) (M)

 21.1**    Subsidiaries of the registrant

 23.1**    Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors

 24.1**    Power of attorney (contained on signature page)

 31.1**    Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange
           Act of 1934, as amended

 31.2**    Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act
           of 1934, as amended


<PAGE>
   32.1**    Certification of Chief Executive Officer furnished pursuant to Rules 13a-14(b) and 15d-14(b) under the Securities
           Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-
           Oxley Act of 2002

   32.2**    Certification of Chief Financial Officer furnished pursuant to Rules 13a-14(b) and 15d-14(b) under the Securities
           Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-
           Oxley Act of 2002
<FN>

_______________________________
**  Filed herewith.
*   Confidential treatment granted by order of the SEC.

(A)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended September 30, 2001 (SEC File No. 0-20992), filed on November 14, 2001.
(B)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (SEC
        File No. 333-18245), filed December 19, 1996.
(C)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (SEC
        File No. 333-91878), filed July 3, 2002.
(D)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended June 30, 2002 (SEC File No. 0-20992), filed August 14, 2002.
(E)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended December 31, 1996 (SEC File No. 0-20992), filed February 14, 1997.
(F)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
        ended June 30, 1997 (SEC File No. 0-20992), filed September 29, 1997.
(G)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K (SEC File No.
        0-20992), filed February 7, 2001.
(H)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K (SEC File No.
        0-20992), filed October 10, 2001.
(I)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K (SEC File No.
        0-20992), filed January 31, 2002.
(J)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended March 31, 2002 (SEC File No. 0-20992), filed May 15, 2002.
(K)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended September 30, 2002 (SEC File No. 0-20992), filed November 14, 2002.
(L)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
        quarter ended March 31, 2003 (SEC File No. 0-20992), filed May 15, 2003.
(M)     Incorporated by reference to the designated exhibit included in the registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K (SEC File No.
        0-20992), filed February 3, 2004.
</TABLE>




<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>doc2.txt
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1

                              LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

FOREIGN  SUBSIDIARIES:

     Insightful SAS, a French subsidiary
     Insightful AG, a Swiss subsidiary
     Insightful Limited, a United Kingdom subsidiary

DOMESTIC SUBSIDIARIES:

     Statistical Sciences, Inc., a Massachusetts subsidiary


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>doc3.txt
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1


               CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement (Form
S-8  No.  333-91878)  pertaining to the 2001 Stock Option and Incentive Plan and
the  2001 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan; in the Registration Statement
(Form  S-8 No. 33-58560) pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan,
the  1992  Non-Employee  Director Stock Option Plan, and the 1992 Employee Stock
Purchase  Plan; in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 33-72162) pertaining
to the Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan; in the Registration Statement (Form
S-8 No. 33-87542) pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan and the
1992  Non-Employee  Director  Stock  Option  Plan; in the Registration Statement
(Form  S-8  No. 33-99618) pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan
and the 1992 Amended Employee Stock Purchase Plan; in the Registration Statement
(Form S-8 No. 333-16005) pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan;
in  the  Registration  Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-18245) pertaining to the 1996
Non-Qualified,  Non-Officer  Stock  Option  Plan;  in the Registration Statement
(Form S-8 No. 333-43833) pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan;
in the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-87097) pertaining to the Amended
and Restated 1992 Stock Plan, the 1992 Amended Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and
the  1992 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan; in the Registration Statement
(Form S-8 No. 333-45796) pertaining to the Amended and Restated 1992 Stock Plan;
in  the  Registration  Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-64724) pertaining to the 2001
Stock  Option and Incentive Plan, the 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and the
2001  Non-Employee  Director Stock Option Plan, of our report dated February 24,
2004 (except for the second paragraph of note 12, the date of which is March 27,
2004)  with  respect  to  the  consolidated  financial  statements of Insightful
Corporation  included  in  the  Annual  Report  (Form  10-K)  for the year ended
December  31,  2003.


/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Seattle,  Washington
April  14,  2004


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>doc4.txt
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 31.1

                            SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

I, Jeffrey E. Coombs, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Insightful Corporation;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
     a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
     statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
     were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
     report;

3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
     information included in this report, fairly present in all material
     respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

     (a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
          disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
          supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
          registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
          us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
          which this report is being prepared;

     (b)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
          and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
          of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

     (c)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
          control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's
          most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in
          the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
          reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal
          controls over financial reporting; and

5.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
     our most recent evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting,
     to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
     board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

     (a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
          operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
          reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

     (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
          employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
          control over financial reporting.

Date: March 30, 2004

/s/ JEFFREY E. COOMBS
- -----------------------------------------
Jeffrey E. Coombs
President and Chief Executive Officer


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31.2
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>doc5.txt
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 31.2

                            SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION

I,  Fred  Schapelhouman,  certify  that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Insightful Corporation;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
     a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
     statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
     were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
     report;

3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
     information included in this report, fairly present in all material
     respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) for the registrant and have:

     (a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
          disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
          supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
          registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
          us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
          which this report is being prepared;

     (b)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
          and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
          of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

     (c)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
          control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's
          most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in
          the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
          reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal
          controls over financial reporting; and

5.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
     our most recent evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting,
     to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's
     board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):

     (a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
          operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
          reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

     (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
          employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
          control over financial reporting.

Date: March 30, 2004

/s/ Fred Schapelhouman
- -------------------------------------
Fred Schapelhouman
Chief Financial Officer


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>doc6.txt
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 32.1

                  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                       PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

     In  connection  with  the  accompanying  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  of
Insightful  Corporation  for  the  year  ended  December 31, 2003, I, Jeffrey E.
Coombs,  President and Chief Executive Officer of Insightful Corporation, hereby
certify  pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Sec. 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of  2002,  that:

          (1)  such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Insightful Corporation for the
     year  ended  December  31,  2003,  fully  complies with the requirements of
     section  13(a)  or  15(d)  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of 1934; and

          (2)  the  information  contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of
     Insightful  Corporation  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2003, fairly
     presents,  in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
     operations  of  Insightful  Corporation.

                                      /s/ Jeffrey E. Coombs
                                      --------------------------
                                      Jeffrey E. Coombs
                                      President and Chief Executive Officer
                                      (Principal Executive Officer)

March 30, 2004




<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32.2
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>doc7.txt
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 32.2

                  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER
                       PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

     In  connection  with  the  accompanying  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  of
Insightful  Corporation  for  the  quarter  ended  December  31,  2003,  I, Fred
Schapelhouman, Chief Financial Officer of Insightful Corporation, hereby certify
pursuant  to  18  U.S.C.  Sec.  1350,  as  adopted  pursuant  to Sec. 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley  Act  of  2002,  that:

          (1)  such Annual Report on Form 10-K of Insightful Corporation for the
     year  ended  December  31,  2003,  fully  complies with the requirements of
     section  13(a)  or  15(d)  of  the  Securities  Exchange  Act  of 1934; and

          (2)  the  information  contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K of
     Insightful  Corporation  for  the  year  ended  December  31,  2003, fairly
     presents,  in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
     operations  of  Insightful  Corporation.

                                      /s/ Fred Schapelhouman
                                      --------------------------
                                      Fred Schapelhouman
                                      Chief Financial Officer
                                      (Principal Financial Officer)

March 30, 2004


<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
