-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 NGTjNS0X+gXvq9MRflIPOjK9Y7hK4FJVCfug9XjElwH9E453uXdeDNdA3uPha1SI
 5PZGAPymoWLC2CeNjVmG5Q==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950134-02-002237.txt : 20020415
<SEC-HEADER>0000950134-02-002237.hdr.sgml : 20020415
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-02-002237
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20011231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020319

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PATTERSON UTI ENERGY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000889900
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS [1381]
		IRS NUMBER:				752504748
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-22664
		FILM NUMBER:		02578165

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4510 LAMESA HWY
		STREET 2:		P O DRAWER 1416
		CITY:			SNYDER
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			79549
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9155731104

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O DRAWER 1416
		CITY:			SNYDER
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			79550

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PATTERSON ENERGY INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940228
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>d94131e10-k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR END DECEMBER 31, 2001
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                             ---------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
                             ---------------------
(MARK ONE)
[X] ANNUAL REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
    1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001

                                       OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM            TO

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-22664
                             ---------------------
                           PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

<Table>
<S>                                                 <C>
                     DELAWARE                                           75-2504748
          (State or other jurisdiction of                  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
          incorporation or organization)

 P.O. BOX 1416, 4510 LAMESA HIGHWAY, SNYDER, TEXAS                         79549
     (Address of principal executive offices)                           (Zip Code)
</Table>

                             ---------------------
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (915) 574-6300
                             ---------------------
            Securities Registered Pursuant to 12(b) of the Act: None
              Securities Registered Pursuant to 12(g) of the Act:

                                (TITLE OF CLASS)
                          Common Stock, $.01 Par Value

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]     No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of the Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K  [ ]

     The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held
by non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 18, 2002 was $2,020,682,056,
based upon the average bid and asked prices of $28.29 and $28.56, respectively,
on the Nasdaq National Market.

     As of March 18, 2002, the registrant had outstanding 77,613,794 shares of
common stock, $.01 par value, its only class of voting stock.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>

                           FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. ("Patterson-UTI" or the "Company") from time to
time makes written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements
contained in our filings with the SEC, press releases and reports to
stockholders. These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the "safe
harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

     The words "believes," "budgeted," "expects," "project," "will," "could,"
"may," "plans," "intends," "strategy," or "anticipates," and similar expressions
are used to identify our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to
update, revise or correct any of our forward-looking information. Readers are
cautioned that such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction
with our disclosures under the heading: "Cautionary Statement for Purposes of
the 'Safe Harbor' Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995" beginning on page 13.

                                     PART I

ITEMS 1 AND 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES.

OVERVIEW

     Patterson-UTI is the second largest operator of land-based drilling rigs in
North America. Formed in 1978 and reincorporated in 1993 as a Delaware
corporation, we focus our contract drilling operations in:

     - Texas,

     - New Mexico,

     - Oklahoma,

     - Louisiana,

     - Mississippi,

     - Utah, and

     - Western Canada (Alberta, British Columbia and Saskatchewan).

     We currently have a drilling fleet of 319 drilling rigs, of which 287
operated in 2001. A drilling rig includes the structure, power source and
machinery necessary to cause a drill bit to penetrate rock to a depth desired by
the customer.

     We provide drilling fluids, completion fluids and related services to oil
and natural gas producers in the Permian Basin of West Texas and Southeast New
Mexico, South Texas, East Texas, Oklahoma, the Gulf Coast regions of Texas and
Louisiana, and the Gulf of Mexico. Drilling and completion fluids are used by
oil and natural gas operators during the drilling process to control pressure
when drilling oil and natural gas wells. We also provide pressure pumping
services in the Appalachian Basin. These services consist primarily of well
stimulation and cementing for completion of new wells and remedial work on
existing wells. To a lesser extent, we are engaged in the development,
exploration, acquisition and production of oil and natural gas. Our oil and
natural gas operations are not financially material and do not warrant
disclosure as a business segment.

PATTERSON/UTI MERGER

     Patterson Energy, Inc. ("Patterson") and UTI Energy Corp. ("UTI")
consummated a merger on May 8, 2001, with Patterson as the surviving entity.
That transaction was a merger of equals and was treated as a reorganization
within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended, and accounted for as a pooling of interests for financial accounting
purposes. Historical financial statements and related financial and statistical
data contained in this Report have been restated to provide for the retroactive
effect of the merger. At the time of the merger, the name of Patterson Energy,
Inc. was changed to "Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc."

                                        2
<PAGE>

INDUSTRY SEGMENTS

     Our revenues, operating profits and identifiable operating assets are
primarily attributable to three industry segments:

     - contract drilling,

     - drilling and completion fluids services, and

     - pressure pumping services.

     With respect to these three segments:

     - the contract drilling segment had an operating loss in 1999 and operating
       profits in 2000 and 2001,

     - the drilling and completion fluids segment had operating losses in 1999
       and 2000, and an operating profit in 2001, and

     - the pressure pumping segment had operating profits in 1999, 2000 and
       2001.

     See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations" and Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
included as a part of Items 7 and 8, respectively, of this Report for financial
information pertaining to these industry segments.

     CONTRACT DRILLING OPERATIONS

     GENERAL.  We market our contract drilling services to major and independent
oil and natural gas producers and operators. We currently own 319 drilling rigs
which are located in the following regions:

     - 257 in Texas and New Mexico(1)

     - 41 in Oklahoma,

     - five in Utah, and

     - 16 in Western Canada.
- ---------------

     (1) 144 in West Texas and New Mexico, 53 in South Texas, 39 in East Texas
         and 21 in North Central Texas,

     Of our drilling rigs, 33 are SCR electric rigs and 286 are mechanical rigs.
An electric rig differs from a mechanical rig in that the electric rig converts
the diesel power (the sole energy source for a mechanical rig) into electricity
to power the rig. Our drilling rigs have rated maximum depth capabilities
ranging from 4,000 feet to 30,000 feet.

     Drilling rigs are typically equipped with:

     - engines,

     - drawworks or hoists,

     - derricks or masts,

     - pumps to circulate the drilling fluid,

     - blowout preventers,

     - drill string (pipe), and

     - other related equipment.

     Over time, many of the components on a drilling rig are replaced or
rebuilt. We spend significant funds each year on an ongoing program of modifying
and upgrading our drilling rigs to ensure that our drilling equipment is well
maintained and competitive.

                                        3
<PAGE>

     Depth of the well and drill site conditions are the principal factors in
determining the size of drilling rig used for a particular job. Our drilling
rigs are utilized for both exploratory and developmental drilling and can be
used for either vertical or horizontal drilling.

     Our contract drilling operations depend on the availability of:

     - drill pipe,

     - bits,

     - replacement parts and other related rig equipment,

     - fuel, and

     - qualified personnel,

some of which have been in short supply from time to time.

     DRILLING CONTRACTS.  Most of our drilling contracts are with established
customers and are obtained on a competitive bid or negotiated basis. Generally,
the contracts are entered into for short-term periods and cover the drilling of
a single well or a series of wells with the terms and rates depending upon the
nature and duration of the work, the equipment and services supplied and other
matters.

     The drilling contracts obligate us to provide and operate a drilling rig
and to pay certain operating expenses, including wages of drilling personnel and
necessary maintenance expenses. The contracts are subject to termination by the
customer on short notice, usually upon payment of a fee. We generally indemnify
our customers against claims by our employees and claims arising from surface
pollution caused by spills of fuel, lubricants and other solvents within our
control. The customers generally indemnify us against claims arising from other
surface and subsurface pollution, except claims arising from our own gross
negligence.

     The contracts provide for payment on a daywork, footage or turnkey basis,
or a combination thereof. In each case we provide the rig and crews. Our bids
for each contract depend upon:

     - the location, depth and anticipated complexity of the well,

     - the on-site drilling conditions,

     - the equipment to be used,

     - our estimate of the risks involved,

     - the estimated duration of the work to be performed,

     - the availability of drilling rigs, and

     - other factors particular to each proposed well.

DAYWORK CONTRACTS

     Under daywork contracts, we provide the drilling rig and crew to the
customer, also known as the operator. The customer then supervises the drilling
of the contracted well. Our compensation is based on a negotiated rate per day
during the period the drilling rig is utilized. We generally receive a lower
rate when the drilling rig is moving, or when drilling operations are
interrupted or restricted by adverse weather conditions or other conditions
beyond our control. In addition, daywork contracts typically provide for a lump
sum fee for the mobilization and demobilization of the drilling rig.

FOOTAGE CONTRACTS

     Under footage contracts, we contract to drill a well to a certain depth
under specified conditions for a fixed price per foot. The customer provides
drilling fluids, casing, cementing and well design expertise. These contracts
require us to bear the cost of services and supplies that we provide until the
well has been drilled to the agreed depth. If we drill the well in less time
than estimated, then we have the opportunity to improve our

                                        4
<PAGE>

margins over those that would be attainable under a daywork contract. Margins
are reduced and losses may be incurred if the well requires more days to drill
than estimated. Footage contracts generally contain greater risks for a drilling
contractor than daywork contracts. Under these contracts, the drilling
contractor assumes certain risks associated with loss of hole from fire,
blowouts and other risks.

TURNKEY CONTRACTS

     Under turnkey contracts, we contract to drill a well to a certain depth
under specified conditions for a fixed fee. In a turnkey arrangement, we are
required to bear the costs of services, supplies and equipment beyond those
typically provided under a footage contract. In addition to the drilling rig and
crew, we are required to provide the drilling and completion fluids, casing,
cementing and the technical well design and engineering services during the
drilling process. We would also assume certain risks associated with drilling
the well such as fires, blowouts, cratering of the well bore and other such
risks. Compensation occurs only when the agreed scope of the work has been
completed which requires us to make significant up-front working capital
commitments prior to receiving payments under a turnkey drilling contract. Under
a turnkey contract we have the opportunity to improve our margins if the
drilling process goes as expected and there are no complications or time delays.
However, given the increased exposure we have under a turnkey contract, margins
can be significantly reduced and losses incurred if complications or delays
occur during the drilling process. Turnkey contracts generally involve the
highest degree of risk among the three different types of drilling contracts:
daywork, footage and turnkey.

     The following table sets forth the approximate percentage of our drilling
revenues attributable to daywork, footage and turnkey contracts for each of the
last three years:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------------
TYPE OF CONTRACT                                              2001      2000      1999
- ----------------                                              -----     -----     -----
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
Daywork.....................................................   93%       65%       54%
Footage.....................................................    3        24        26
Turnkey.....................................................    4        11        20
</Table>

     CONTRACT DRILLING ACTIVITY.  The following table sets forth certain
information regarding our contract drilling activity for each of the last three
years:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -----------------------
                                                              2001     2000     1999
                                                              ----     ----     ----
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>      <C>
Number of wells drilled.....................................  2,869    2,649    1,519
Average rigs owned..........................................    302      263      231
Average rig utilization rate(1).............................     70%      66%      43%
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Rig utilization is based on a 365-day year for rigs owned during 1999 and
    2001, and a 366-day year for rigs owned in 2000. A rig is utilized when it
    is operating or being moved, assembled or dismantled under contract.

     DRILLING RIGS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT.  The following table provides certain
information concerning our drilling rigs as of December 31, 2001:

<Table>
<Caption>
DEPTH RATING (FT.)                                            MECHANICAL    ELECTRIC
- ------------------                                            ----------    --------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
4,000 to 9,999..............................................      52           --
10,000 to 11,999............................................      67            2
12,000 to 14,999............................................     114            6
15,000 to 30,000............................................      53           25
                                                                 ---           --
          Totals............................................     286           33
                                                                 ===           ==
</Table>

                                        5
<PAGE>

     At December 31, 2001, we owned 234 trucks and 271 trailers used to rig
down, transport and rig up our drilling rigs. This reduces Patterson-UTI's
dependency upon third parties for these services and enhances the efficiency of
our contract drilling operations particularly in periods of high drilling rig
utilization.

     Most repair work and overhaul of our drilling rig equipment is performed at
our yard facilities located in Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Western Canada.

DRILLING AND COMPLETION FLUIDS OPERATIONS

     GENERAL.  We provide drilling fluids, completion fluids and related
services to oil and natural gas producers in the Permian Basin of West Texas and
Southeast New Mexico, South Texas, East Texas, Oklahoma, the Gulf Coast regions
of Texas and Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico. We serve our offshore customers
through seven stockpoints located along the Gulf of Mexico in Texas and
Louisiana, and our land-based customers through seven stockpoints in Louisiana,
Texas, Oklahoma and New Mexico.

     DRILLING FLUIDS.  Our product sales are supported by a technical service
organization dedicated to product application on the customer's wellsite.
Drilling fluid products and systems are used to cool and lubricate the drill bit
during drilling operations, contain formation pressures (thereby minimizing
blowout risk), suspend and remove rock cuttings from the hole and maintain the
stability of the wellbore. Technical services are provided to ensure that the
products and systems are applied effectively to optimize drilling operations.

     COMPLETION FLUIDS.  After a well is drilled it undergoes the completion
process wherein the well casing is set and cemented in place. At that point, the
drilling fluid services are complete, and the drilling fluids are circulated out
of the well and replaced with completion fluids. Completion fluids, also known
as clear brine fluids, are solids-free, clear salt solutions that have high
specific gravities. Combined with a range of specialty chemicals, these fluids
are used by operators to control bottom-hole pressures and to meet a well's
specific corrosion, inhibition, viscosity, and fluid loss requirements during
the completion and workover phases.

     RAW MATERIALS.  Our drilling and completion fluids operations depend on the
availability of the following raw materials:

<Table>
<Caption>
DRILLING                    COMPLETION
- --------                 ----------------
<S>                      <C>
barite                   calcium chloride
bentonite                calcium bromide
                         zinc bromide
</Table>

     We obtain these raw materials through purchases made on the spot market and
supply contracts with producers of these raw materials.

     BARITE GRINDING FACILITY.  We own and operate a barite grinding facility
equipped with two barite grinding mills located in Houma, Louisiana. We believe
the ability to process our own barite is critical to being competitive on the
Gulf Coast and in the Gulf of Mexico since barite accounts for a substantial
portion of the dollar volume for drilling fluids jobs in both of these areas.
Our grinding facility allows us to grind raw barite into the powder additive
used in producing drilling fluids. Owning this facility reduces our dependence
upon third parties in our supply of barite. Without the grinding mills we would
be required to purchase processed barite from third parties, including some of
our competitors, which could result in higher production costs and less
efficient operations.

     OTHER EQUIPMENT.  We own 28 trucks and 118 trailers and lease another 36
trucks used to transport drilling and completion fluids and related equipment.

PRESSURE PUMPING OPERATIONS

     GENERAL.  We provide pressure pumping services in the Appalachian Basin.
Pressure pumping services consist primarily of well stimulation and cementing
for the completion of new wells and remedial work on existing wells. Most wells
drilled in the Appalachian Basin require some form of fracturing or other

                                        6
<PAGE>

stimulation to enhance the flow of oil and natural gas which is accomplished by
pumping fluids under pressure into the well bore. Generally, Appalachian Basin
wells require cementing services before production commences. Cementing is the
process of inserting material between the wall of the well bore and the casing
to center and stabilize the casing.

     EQUIPMENT.  Patterson-UTI continuously maintains its pressure pumping
equipment. Virtually all of the pressure pumping equipment is in use on a
regular basis. As of December 31, 2001, Patterson-UTI operated the following
pressure pumping equipment:

     - 16 cement pumper trucks,

     - 22 fracturing pumper trucks,

     - 19 nitrogen pumper trucks,

     - 11 blender trucks,

     - 8 bulk acid trucks,

     - 24 bulk cement trucks,

     - 6 bulk nitrogen trucks,

     - 18 bulk sand trucks, and

     - 6 connection trucks.

CUSTOMERS

     The customers of each of our three business segments are producers or
operators of oil and natural gas. Our customer base includes both major and
independent oil and natural gas companies within the oil and gas industry.
During 2001, no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated
operating revenues.

COMPETITION

     CONTRACT DRILLING AND PRESSURE PUMPING BUSINESSES.  Our land drilling and
pressure pumping businesses are intensely competitive due to the fact that the
supply of available land drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment exceeds
the demand for those rigs and equipment. This excess capacity has resulted in
substantial competition for drilling and pressure pumping contracts. The fact
that drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment are mobile and can be moved
from one market to another in response to market conditions heightens the
competition in the industry.

     Patterson-UTI believes that price competition for drilling and pressure
pumping contracts will continue for the foreseeable future due to the existence
of available rigs and pressure pumping equipment. In addition, some of our
competitors have greater financial resources than we do which may enable them
to:

     - better withstand industry downturns,

     - compete more effectively on the basis of price, and

     - acquire existing rigs or equipment or build new rigs or equipment.

     In recent years, many drilling and pressure pumping companies have
consolidated or merged with other companies. Although this consolidation has
decreased the total number of competitors, we believe the competition for
drilling and pressure pumping services will continue to be intense.

     DRILLING AND COMPLETION FLUIDS BUSINESS.  The drilling and completion
fluids services industry is highly competitive. Price is generally the most
important competitive factor in the industry. Other competitive factors include
the availability of chemicals and experienced personnel, the reputation of the
fluids services provider in the drilling industry and our relationship with
existing customers. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources
and longer operating histories than we have. We believe that competition for
drilling and completion fluids service contracts will continue to be intense.
                                        7
<PAGE>

GOVERNMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

     Patterson-UTI's operations and facilities are subject to numerous state,
federal and foreign (Canadian) laws, rules and regulations, including, but
limited to:

     - drilling of oil and gas wells,

     - containment and disposal of hazardous materials, oilfield waste, other
       waste materials and acids,

     - use of underground storage tanks, and

     - use of underground injection wells.

     To date, we have not been required to expend significant resources in order
to satisfy applicable environmental laws and regulations. We do not anticipate
any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities or
extraordinary expenditures to comply with compliance with environmental rules
and regulations in the foreseeable future. However, compliance costs under
existing laws or under any new requirements could become material and we could
incur liability for noncompliance.

     Our business is generally affected by political developments and by
federal, state, foreign and local laws and regulations, which relate to the oil
and natural gas industry. The adoption of laws and regulations affecting the oil
and natural gas industry for economic, environmental and other policy reasons
could increase costs relating to drilling and production. They could have an
adverse effect on our operations. Several state and federal environmental laws
and regulations currently apply to our operations and may become more stringent
in the future.

     We have utilized operating and disposal practices that were or are
currently standard in the industry. However, hydrocarbons and other materials
may have been disposed of or released in or under properties currently or
formerly owned or operated by us or our predecessors in interest. In addition,
some of these properties have been operated by third parties over whom we have
no control either as to such entities' treatment of hydrocarbon and other
materials or the manner in which such materials may have been disposed of or
released.

     The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability
Act of 1980, commonly known as CERCLA, and comparable state statutes impose
strict liability on:

     - owners and operators of sites, and

     - persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of "hazardous
       substances" found at sites.

     The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and comparable state
statutes govern the disposal of "hazardous wastes." Although CERCLA currently
excludes petroleum from the definition of "hazardous substances," and the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act also excludes certain classes of
exploration and production wastes from regulation, such exemptions by Congress
under both CERCLA and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act may be deleted,
limited or modified in the future. If such changes are made to CERCLA and/or the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, we could be required to remove and
remediate previously disposed of materials (including materials disposed of or
released by prior owners or operators) from properties (including ground water
contaminated with hydrocarbons) and to perform removal or remedial actions to
prevent future contamination.

     The Federal Water Pollution Control Act and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990
and implementing regulations govern:

     - the prevention of discharges, including oil and produced water spills,
       and

     - liability for drainage into waters.

     The Oil Pollution Act is more comprehensive and stringent than previous oil
pollution liability and prevention laws. It imposes strict liability for a
comprehensive and expansive list of damages from an oil spill into waters from
facilities. Liability may be imposed for oil removal costs and a variety of
public and private

                                        8
<PAGE>

damages. Penalties may also be imposed for violation of federal safety,
construction and operating regulations, and for failure to report a spill or to
cooperate fully in a clean-up.

     The Oil Pollution Act also expands the authority and capability of the
federal government to direct and manage oil spill clean-up and operations, and
requires operators to prepare oil spill response plans in cases where it can
reasonably be expected that substantial harm will be done to the environment by
discharges on or into navigable waters. We have spill prevention control and
countermeasure plans in place for our oil and natural gas properties in each of
the areas in which we operate and for each of the stockpoints operated by our
drilling and completion fluids business. Failure to comply with ongoing
requirements or inadequate cooperation during a spill event may subject a
responsible party, such as Patterson-UTI, to civil or criminal actions. Although
the liability for owners and operators is the same under the Federal Water
Pollution Act, the damages recoverable under the Oil Pollution Act are
potentially much greater and can include natural resource damages.

     Our operations are also subject to federal, state and local regulations for
the control of air emissions. The federal Clean Air Act and various state and
local laws impose certain air quality requirements on Patterson-UTI. Amendments
to the Clean Air Act revised the definition of "major source" such that
emissions from both wellhead and associated equipment involved in oil and
natural gas production may be added to determine if a source is a "major
source." As a consequence, more facilities may become major sources and thus
would be required to obtain operating permits. This permitting process may
require capital expenditures in order to comply with permit limits.

RISKS AND INSURANCE

     Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the drilling
business, including:

     - accidents at the work location,

     - blow-outs,

     - cratering,

     - fires, and

     - explosions.

     These hazards could cause:

     - personal injury or death,

     - suspension of drilling operations, or

     - serious damage or destruction of the equipment involved and, in addition
       to environmental damage, could cause substantial damage to producing
       formations and surrounding areas.

     Damage to the environment, including property contamination in the form of
either soil or ground water contamination, could also result from our
operations, particularly through:

     - oil or produced water spillage,

     - natural gas leaks, and

     - extensive, uncontrolled fires.

     In addition, we could become subject to liability for reservoir damages.
The occurrence of a significant event, including pollution or environmental
damages, could materially affect our operations and financial condition.

                                        9
<PAGE>

     As a protection against operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage
we believe to be adequate, including:

     - all-risk physical damages,

     - employer's liability,

     - commercial general liability, and

     - workers compensation insurance.

     We believe that we are adequately insured for public liability and property
damage to others with respect to our operations. However, such insurance may not
be sufficient to protect us against liability for all consequences of:

     - personal injury,

     - well disasters,

     - extensive fire damage,

     - damage to the environment, or

     - other hazards.

     We also carry insurance to cover major physical damage to or loss of our
drilling rigs. However, we do not carry insurance against loss of earnings
resulting from such damage or loss. In view of the difficulties that may be
encountered in renewing such insurance at reasonable rates, no assurance can be
given that:

     - we will be able to maintain the type and amount of coverage that we
       believe to be adequate at reasonable rates, or

     - any particular types of coverage will be available.

     In addition to insurance coverage, we also attempt to obtain
indemnification from our customers for certain of the risks. These indemnity
agreements typically require our customers to hold us harmless in the event of
loss of production or reservoir damage. These contractual indemnifications may
not be supported by adequate insurance maintained by the customer.

EMPLOYEES

     We employed approximately 5,250 full-time persons (230 office personnel and
5,020 field personnel) at December 31, 2001. The number of field employees
fluctuates depending on the current and expected demand for the services we
provide. We consider our employee relations to be satisfactory. None of our
employees is represented by a union.

SEASONALITY

     Seasonality does not significantly affect our overall operations. However,
our pressure pumping division in Appalachia and our drilling operations in
Canada are subject to slow periods of activity during the spring thaw. In
addition, our drilling operations in Canada are subject to slow periods of
activity during the fall.

RAW MATERIALS AND SUBCONTRACTORS

     Patterson-UTI uses many suppliers of raw materials and services. These
materials and services have been and continue to be available. We also utilize
numerous independent subcontractors from various trades.

INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE

     The various factors disclosed under the caption "Cautionary Statement for
Purposes of the "Safe Harbor" Provisions of the Private Litigation Reform Act of
1995," beginning on page 13 of this Report, are

                                        10
<PAGE>

incorporated by this reference into Items 1 and 2 of this Report. Readers of
this Report should review those factors in conjunction with their review of
these Items 1 and 2.

CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS, FIELD OFFICES AND OTHER FACILITIES

     Our corporate headquarters are located in Snyder, Texas. We also have a
number of offices, yard and stockpoint facilities located in our various
operating areas.

     Our corporate headquarters are located at 4510 Lamesa Highway, Snyder,
Texas, and our telephone number at that address is (915) 574-6300. There are a
number of improvements at our headquarters, including:

     - an office building with approximately 16,000 square feet, with an
       additional building currently under construction that will add another
       18,000 square feet of office space and storage,

     - a shop facility with approximately 7,000 square feet used for drilling
       equipment repairs and metal fabrication,

     - a truck shop facility with approximately 10,000 square feet used to
       maintain, overhaul and repair our truck fleet,

     - an engine shop facility with approximately 20,000 square feet used to
       overhaul and repair the engines used to power our drilling rigs, and

     - an open-ended metal storage facility with approximately 10,200 square
       feet.

     We have regional administrative offices, yard and stockpoint facilities in
many of the areas in which we operate. The facilities are primarily used to
support the day-to-day operations, including the repair and maintenance of
equipment as well as the storage of equipment, inventory and supplies and to
facilitate administrative responsibilities and sales.

     CONTRACT DRILLING OPERATIONS

     Our drilling operations are supported by several administrative offices and
yard facilities located throughout our areas of operations including:

     - Texas,

     - New Mexico,

     - Oklahoma,

     - Utah, and

     - Western Canada.

     DRILLING AND COMPLETION FLUIDS

     Our drilling and completion fluids are supported by several administrative
offices and stockpoint facilities located throughout our areas of operations
including:

     - Texas,

     - Louisiana,

     - New Mexico, and

     - Oklahoma.

                                        11
<PAGE>

     PRESSURE PUMPING

     Our pressure pumping operations are supported by several offices and yard
facilities located throughout our areas of operations including:

     - Pennsylvania,

     - Ohio,

     - Kentucky, and

     - New York.

     We own our headquarters in Snyder and lease the majority of our other
facilities. We do not believe that any of these other facilities are
individually material to our operations. We believe that our existing facilities
are suitable and adequate to meet our needs.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     Westfort Energy LTD and Westfort Energy (US) LTD f/k/a Canadian Delta, Inc.
("Westfort"), filed a lawsuit against two Patterson-UTI subsidiaries, Patterson
Petroleum LP and Patterson Drilling Company LP, in the Circuit Court, Rankin
County, Mississippi, Case No. 2002-18, on January 28, 2002. The lawsuit relates
to a letter agreement entered into in July 2000 between Patterson Petroleum and
Westfort concerning the drilling of a daywork well in Mississippi. This lawsuit
was filed by Westfort after Patterson Petroleum made demand on Westfort for
payment of the contract drilling services.

     In this lawsuit, Westfort alleges breach of contract, fraud and negligence
causes of action. Westfort seeks alleged monetary damages, the return of shares
of Westfort stock, unspecified damages from alleged lost profits, lost use of
income stream and additional operating expenses, along with alleged punitive
damages to be determined by the jury, but not less than 25% of Patterson's net
worth. We intend to vigorously contest the allegations made by Westfort and
assert claims against Westfort, including for the monies owed Patterson under
the letter agreement in the amount of approximately $5,075,000.

     In addition to the Westfort lawsuit, we are party to various legal
proceedings arising in the normal course of our business. We do not believe that
the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the aggregate, will
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     None.

                                        12
<PAGE>

            CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS FOR PURPOSES OF THE "SAFE HARBOR"
       PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

     We include the following cautionary statement in accordance with the "safe
harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for
any forward-looking statement made by us, or on our behalf. The factors
identified in this cautionary statement are important factors (but not
necessarily all of the important factors) that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by
us, or on our behalf. Where any such forward-looking statement includes a
statement of the assumptions or bases underlying such forward-looking statement,
we caution that, while we believe such assumptions or bases to be reasonable and
make them in good faith, assumed facts or bases almost always vary from actual
results. The differences between assumed facts or bases and actual results can
be material, depending upon the circumstances.

     Where, in any forward-looking statement, Patterson-UTI, or our management,
expresses an expectation or belief as to the future results, such expectation or
belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis.
However, there can be no assurance that the statement of expectation or belief
will result, or be achieved or accomplished. Taking this into account, the
following are identified as important risk factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking
statement made by, or on behalf of, Patterson-UTI:

PATTERSON-UTI IS DEPENDENT ON THE OIL AND NATURAL GAS INDUSTRY AND MARKET PRICES
FOR OIL AND NATURAL GAS. DECLINES IN OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES HAVE ADVERSELY
AFFECTED OUR OPERATIONS.

     Our revenue, profitability and rate of growth are substantially dependent
upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas. In recent years, oil and natural
gas prices and, therefore, the level of drilling, exploration, development and
production, have been extremely volatile. Prices are affected by:

     - market supply and demand,

     - international military, political and economic conditions, and

     - the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,
       commonly known as OPEC, to set and maintain production and price targets.

     All of these factors are beyond our control. Beginning in the third quarter
of 2001 and continuing through the date of this report, commodity price
uncertainty has adversely affected our operations. We expect oil and natural gas
prices to continue to be volatile and to affect our financial condition and
operations and ability to access sources of capital.

INDUSTRY CONDITIONS FOR CONTRACT DRILLING SERVICES HAVE BEEN POOR FOR MUCH OF
THE TIME SINCE 1982.

     The contract drilling business experienced increased demand for drilling
services from 1995 through most of 1997 due to higher oil and natural gas
prices. The increase in demand returned, beginning in mid-1999 and continued
through the second quarter of 2001. However, except for those periods and other
occasional upturns, the market for onshore contract drilling services and the
other services we provide has generally been depressed since 1982, when the
number of operable land drilling rigs was at record levels. Since this time
there have been substantially more drilling rigs available than necessary to
meet demand in most operational and geographic segments of the North American
land drilling industry. As a result, drilling contractors have had difficulty
sustaining profit margins.

     In addition to adverse effects that future declines in demand could have on
Patterson-UTI, ongoing factors which could adversely affect utilization rates
and pricing, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices and
increased drilling activity, include:

     - movement of drilling rigs from region to region,

     - reactivation of land-based drilling rigs, or

     - new construction of drilling rigs.

                                        13
<PAGE>

     We cannot predict either the future level of demand for our contract
drilling services or future conditions in the oil and natural gas contract
drilling business.

SHORTAGES OF DRILL PIPE, REPLACEMENT PARTS AND OTHER RELATED RIG EQUIPMENT
ADVERSELY AFFECTS PATTERSON-UTI'S OPERATING RESULTS.

     During periods of increased demand for drilling services, the industry has
experienced shortages of drill pipe, replacement parts and other related rig
equipment. These shortages caused the price of these items to increase
significantly and required that orders for the items be placed well in advance
of expected use. These price increases and delays in delivery caused us to
substantially increase capital expenditures in our contract drilling segment.
Severe shortages could impair our ability to operate our drilling rigs.

THE VARIOUS BUSINESS SEGMENTS IN WHICH WE OPERATE ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE WITH
EXCESS CAPACITY WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS.

     Our land drilling and pressure pumping businesses are intensely competitive
due to the fact that the supply of available land drilling rigs and pressure
pumping equipment exceeds the demand for those rigs and equipment. This excess
capacity has resulted in substantial competition for drilling and pressure
pumping contracts. The fact that drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment
are mobile and can be moved from one market to another in response to market
conditions heightens the competition in the industry.

     Patterson-UTI believes that price competition for drilling and pressure
pumping contracts will continue for the foreseeable future due to the existence
of available rigs and pressure pumping equipment. In addition, some of our
competitors have greater financial resources than we do which may enable them
to:

     - better withstand industry downturns,

     - compete more effectively on the basis of price, and

     - acquire existing rigs or equipment or build new rigs or equipment.

     In recent years, many drilling and pressure pumping companies have
consolidated or merged with other companies. Although this consolidation has
decreased the total number of competitors, we believe the competition for
drilling and pressure pumping services will continue to be intense.

     The drilling and completion fluids services industry is highly competitive.
Price is generally the most important competitive factor in the industry. Other
competitive factors include the availability of chemicals and experienced
personnel, the reputation of the fluids services provider in the drilling
industry and our relationship with existing customers. Some of our competitors
have substantially greater resources and longer operating histories than we
have. We believe that competition for drilling and completion fluids service
contracts will continue to be intense.

LABOR SHORTAGES ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS.

     During periods of increased demand for contract drilling services, the
industry experiences shortages of qualified drilling rig personnel. During these
periods, our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel to
market and operate our drilling rigs is adversely affected. Labor shortages also
cause wage increases, which impact our operating margins.

CONTINUED GROWTH OF PATTERSON-UTI THROUGH RIG ACQUISITION IS NOT ASSURED.

     We have increased our drilling rig fleet over the past several years
through mergers and acquisitions. In May 2001, UTI merged with Patterson in a
so-called "merger of equals." The combination of the two companies doubled the
number of our drilling rigs. The land drilling industry has experienced
significant consolidation over the past several years, and there can be no
assurance that acquisition opportunities will continue to be available.
Additionally, we are likely to continue to face intense competition from other
companies for available acquisition opportunities.

                                        14
<PAGE>

     There can be no assurance that we would:

     - have sufficient capital resources to complete additional acquisitions,

     - successfully integrate acquired operations and assets,

     - be able to manage effectively the growth and increased size,

     - be successful in deploying idle or stacked rigs,

     - be able to maintain the crews and market share attributable to operating
       drilling rigs acquired, or

     - be successful in improving our financial condition, results of operation,
       business or prospects in any material manner as a result of any completed
       acquisition.

     We may incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and
also may issue equity securities or convertible securities in connection with
any such acquisitions. Debt service requirements could represent a significant
burden on our results of operations and financial condition and the issuance of
additional equity could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Also,
continued growth could strain our management, operations, employees and
resources.

THE NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS PRESENTS INHERENT RISKS OF LOSS THAT, IF
NOT INSURED OR INDEMNIFIED AGAINST COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT PATTERSON-UTI'S
OPERATING RESULTS.

     Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the contract
drilling, pressure pumping and drilling and completion fluids businesses, which
in turn could cause personal injury or death, work stoppage or serious damage to
our equipment. Our operations could also cause environmental and reservoir
damages. We maintain insurance coverage and have indemnification agreements with
many of our customers. However, there is no assurance that such insurance or
indemnification agreements would adequately protect Patterson-UTI against
liability from all consequences of the hazards. Additionally, there can be no
assurance that insurance would be available to cover any or all of these risks,
or, even if available, that insurance premiums or other costs would not rise
significantly in the future, so as to make such insurance prohibitive.

VIOLATIONS OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY
AFFECT PATTERSON-UTI OPERATING RESULTS.

     The drilling of oil and natural gas wells is subject to various state,
federal and foreign laws, rules and regulations. The cost to Patterson-UTI of
compliance with these laws and regulations could be substantial. Failure to
comply with these requirements could subject Patterson-UTI to substantial civil
and criminal penalties. In addition, federal law imposes a variety of
regulations on "responsible parties" related to the prevention of oil spills and
liability for damages from such spills. Patterson-UTI, as an owner and operator
of land-based drilling rigs may be deemed to be a responsible party under
federal law. Our operations and facilities are subject to numerous state and
federal environmental laws, rules and regulations, including, without
limitation, laws concerning the containment and disposal of hazardous
substances, oil field waste and other waste materials, the use of underground
storage tanks and the use of underground injection wells. We generally try to
require our customers to contractually assume responsibility for compliance with
environmental regulations, however, we are not always successful in shifting all
of those risks, nor is there any assurance that the applicable customer will be
financially able to bear those risks assumed.

SOME OF OUR CONTRACT DRILLING SERVICES ARE DONE UNDER TURNKEY AND FOOTAGE
CONTRACTS, WHICH ARE FINANCIALLY RISKY.

     A portion of our contract drilling is done under turnkey contracts and
footage contracts, which involve significant risks. Under turnkey drilling
contracts, we contract to drill a well to a certain depth under specified
conditions for a fixed price. Under footage contracts, we contract to drill a
well to a certain depth under specified conditions at a fixed price per foot.
The risk to us under these types of drilling contracts are greater than on a
well drilled on a daywork basis. Unlike daywork contracts, we must bear the cost
of performing

                                        15
<PAGE>

drilling services until the target depth is reached. We must also make
significant up-front working capital commitments prior to receiving payment. In
addition, we must assume most of the risk associated with the drilling
operations, generally assumed by the operator of the well on a daywork contract,
including blowouts, loss of hole from fire, machinery breakdowns and abnormal
drilling conditions. Accordingly, if severe drilling problems are encountered in
drilling wells under such contracts, we could suffer substantial losses.

ANTI-TAKEOVER MEASURES IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND UNDER STATE LAW COULD
DISCOURAGE AN ACQUISITION OF PATTERSON-UTI AND THEREBY AFFECT THE RELATED
PURCHASE PRICE.

     Patterson-UTI, as a Delaware corporation, is subject to the Delaware
General Corporation Law, including Section 203, an anti-takeover law enacted in
1988. We have also enacted certain anti-takeover measures, including a
stockholders' rights plan. In addition, our board of directors has the authority
to issue up to one million shares of preferred stock and to determine the price,
rights (including voting rights), conversion ratios, preferences and privileges
of that stock without further vote or action by the holders of the common stock.
As a result of these measures and others, potential acquirers of Patterson-UTI
may find it more difficult or be discouraged from attempting to effect an
acquisition transaction with us. This may deprive holders of our securities of
certain opportunities to sell or otherwise dispose of the securities at
above-market prices pursuant to any such transactions.

WE HAVE PAID NO DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK AND HAVE NO PLANS TO PAY
DIVIDENDS.

     We have not declared or paid cash dividends on our common shares in the
past. We do not expect to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock
in the foreseeable future. The terms of our existing credit facility limit the
payment of dividends without the prior written consent of the lenders.

                                        16
<PAGE>

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR OUR COMMON SHARES AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     Our common stock, par value $0.01 per share is publicly traded on the
Nasdaq National Market and is quoted under the symbol "PTEN." In November 2001,
our common stock was added to the S&P MidCap 400 Index. Our common stock is also
included in several other market indexes.

     The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices of our
common shares for the periods indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                HIGH       LOW
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
2001:
First quarter...............................................  $  40.44   $  29.94
Second quarter..............................................     36.28      17.87
Third quarter...............................................     18.68      11.69
Fourth quarter..............................................     24.48      12.16
2000:
First quarter...............................................  $  31.75   $  12.38
Second quarter..............................................     31.81      16.13
Third quarter...............................................     35.94      18.75
Fourth quarter..............................................     38.19      23.06
</Table>

     As of March 1, 2002, there were approximately 330 holders of record
(approximately 23,400 beneficial holders) of our common shares.

     We have not declared or paid cash dividends on our common shares in the
past and do not expect to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock
in the foreseeable future. Instead, we intend to retain our earnings to support
the operations and growth of our business. Any future cash dividends would
depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other
factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. In addition, the terms of our
existing credit facility limit the payment of dividends without the prior
written consent of the lenders.

     During 2001, we issued a total of 1,260,070 common shares and three-year
warrants to acquire 325,000 common shares that were not registered under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The shares and warrants were issued as
follows:

     - We issued a total of 810,070 common shares during January 2001 as partial
       consideration for the acquisition of Jones Drilling Corporation and the
       assets of three related entities.

     - The remaining 450,000 common shares and warrants to acquire 325,000
       shares were issued during December 2001, as partial consideration for the
       acquisition of certain assets of Cleere Drilling Company.

     No underwriter was involved in either of the transactions and no sales
commissions, fees or similar compensation were paid by us to any person in
connection with the issuance of the shares. We believe that the issuance of the
shares in each instance was exempt from the registration requirements of Section
5 of the Securities Act by virtue of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act and/or
under Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated by the SEC thereunder.

                                        17
<PAGE>

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     The selected consolidated financial data of Patterson-UTI as of December
31, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998 and 1997 and for each of the five years then ended
should be read in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the Consolidated Financial
Statements and related Notes thereto, included as Items 7 and 8, respectively,
of this document. Historical financial statements as presented herein, have been
restated to provide for the retroactive effect of the merger with UTI Energy
Corp., on May 8, 2001.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                        YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                     --------------------------------------------------------------
                                        2001         2000         1999         1998         1997
                                        ----         ----         ----         ----         ----
                                                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
<S>                                  <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
INCOME STATEMENT DATA:
Operating revenues:
  Drilling.........................  $  839,931   $  512,998   $  266,212   $  329,003   $  340,114
  Drilling and completion fluids...      94,456       32,053       11,686       13,397           --
  Pressure pumping.................      39,600       21,465       20,721       23,365       20,923
  Other............................      15,988       15,806        8,747        7,362       12,694
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
          Total....................     989,975      582,322      307,366      373,127      373,731
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Operating costs and expenses:
  Drilling.........................     487,343      384,840      224,590      253,768      253,665
  Drilling and completion fluids...      80,034       26,545        9,864       10,205           --
  Pressure pumping.................      21,146       13,403       12,219       14,041       12,615
  Depreciation, depletion and
     amortization..................      86,159       61,464       52,553       51,436       28,927
  General and administrative.......      28,561       22,190       17,735       20,004       16,675
  Bad debt expense.................       2,045          570          282        1,233          745
  Merger costs.....................       5,943           --           --           --           --
  Restructuring and related
     charges.......................       7,202           --           --           --           --
  Other............................       4,370        4,725         (427)       3,361        2,233
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
          Total....................     722,803      513,737      316,816      354,048      314,860
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Operating income (loss)............     267,172       68,585       (9,450)      19,079       58,871
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Other income (expense).............        (677)      (8,481)      (7,053)      (5,953)      (3,581)
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Income (loss) before income
  taxes............................     266,495       60,104      (16,503)      13,126       55,290
Income tax expense (benefit).......     102,333       22,878       (4,766)       5,328       20,475
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
Net income (loss)..................  $  164,162   $   37,226   $  (11,737)  $    7,798   $   34,815
                                     ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========
Net income (loss) per common share:
  Basic............................  $     2.15   $     0.52   $    (0.18)  $     0.12   $     0.84
                                     ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========
  Diluted..........................  $     2.07   $     0.50   $    (0.18)  $     0.12   $     0.78
                                     ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========
Weighted average number of common
  shares outstanding:
  Basic............................      76,407       71,207       66,483       63,785       41,575
                                     ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========
  Diluted..........................      79,197       74,841       66,483       65,757       44,574
                                     ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========   ==========
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
Total assets.......................  $  869,642   $  739,898   $  496,715   $  468,554   $  411,248
Long-term debt.....................          --       79,416       82,196       87,435       46,758
Stockholders' equity...............     687,142      481,299      309,695      300,881      290,880
Working capital....................     110,172      127,299       45,161       47,837      111,216
</Table>

                                        18
<PAGE>

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

     This Item 7 contains forward-looking statements, which are made pursuant to
the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. These statements include, without limitation, statements relating to:

     - liquidity,

     - financing of operations,

     - continued volatility of oil and natural gas prices,

     - source and sufficiency of funds required for capital needs and additional
       rig acquisitions (if further opportunities arise),

     - future utilization of net operating loss carryforwards,

     - impact of inflation on our financial position and on our earnings per
       share, and

     - other such matters.

     The words "believes," "budgeted," "expects," "project," "will," "could,"
"may," "plans," "intends," "strategy," or "anticipates," and similar expressions
are used to identify our forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to
update, revise or correct any of our forward-looking information. Readers are
cautioned that such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction
with our disclosures under the heading: "Cautionary Statement for Purposes of
the 'Safe Harbor' Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995" beginning on page 13.

     Off balance sheet arrangements.  We have no off balance sheet arrangements
other than letters of credit of $20.0 million at December 31, 2001, maintained
for the benefit of various insurance companies as collateral for retrospective
premiums and retained losses which would become payable under the terms of the
underlying insurance contracts. These letters of credit expire variously during
each calendar year, but provide for an indefinite number of annual extensions of
the expiration date. No amounts have been drawn under the letters of credit.

     Trading and investing.  We do not engage in trading activities that include
high-risk securities, such as derivatives and non-exchange traded contracts. We
invest cash on hand only in highly liquid, short-term investments such as
overnight deposits, money markets and highly rated municipal and commercial
bonds.

     Description of business.  We are a leading provider of land-based contract
drilling services to major and independent oil and natural gas producers and
operators in Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Mississippi, Utah and
Western Canada. We own the second largest land-based drilling fleet in North
America with 319 drilling rigs. We provide drilling fluids, completion fluids
and related services to oil and natural gas producers in the Permian Basin of
West Texas and Southeast New Mexico, South Texas, East Texas, Oklahoma, the Gulf
Coast regions of Texas and Louisiana, and the Gulf of Mexico. Drilling and
completion fluids are used by oil and natural gas operators during the drilling
process to control pressure when drilling oil and natural gas wells. We also
provide pressure pumping services in the Appalachian Basin. These services
consist primarily of well stimulation and cementing for completion of new wells
and remedial work on existing wells. To a lesser extent, we are engaged in the
development, exploration, acquisition and production of oil and natural gas. Our
oil and natural gas operations are not financially material and do not warrant
disclosure as a business segment.

     The contract drilling business experienced increased demand for drilling
services from 1995 through most of 1997 due to higher oil and natural gas
prices. The increase in demand returned, beginning in mid-1999 and continued
through the second quarter of 2001. However, except for those periods and other
occasional upturns, the market for onshore contract drilling services and the
other services we provide has generally been depressed since 1982, when the
number of operable land drilling rigs was at record levels. Since this time
there have been substantially more drilling rigs available than necessary to
meet demand in most operational and

                                        19
<PAGE>

geographic segments of the North American land drilling industry. As a result,
drilling contractors have had difficulty sustaining profit margins.

     In addition to adverse effects that future declines in demand could have on
Patterson-UTI, ongoing factors which could adversely affect utilization rates
and pricing, even in an environment of stronger oil and natural gas prices and
increased drilling activity, include:

     - movement of drilling rigs from region to region,

     - reactivation of land-based drilling rigs, or

     - new construction of drilling rigs.

     We cannot predict either the future level of demand for our contract
drilling services or future conditions in the oil and natural gas contract
drilling business.

     Management estimates.  The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     Revenue recognition.  Generally, revenues are recognized when services are
performed. We follow the percentage-of-completion method of accounting for
footage contract drilling arrangements. Under this method, all drilling
revenues, direct costs and appropriate portions of indirect costs, related to
the contracts in progress, are recognized as contract drilling services are
performed. Due to the nature of turnkey contract drilling arrangements and risks
therein, we follow the completed contract method of accounting for such
arrangements. Under this method, all drilling advances, direct costs and
appropriate portions of indirect costs (including maintenance and repairs)
related to the contracts in progress are deferred and recognized as revenues and
expenses in the period the contracts are completed. Provisions for losses on
incomplete or in-process contracts are made when estimated total costs are
expected to exceed total estimated revenues.

     Related party transactions.  In 2001, 2000 and 1999, we leased a 1981 Beech
King-Air 90 airplane owned by an affiliate of our Chief Executive Officer and
our President/Chief Operating Officer. Under the terms of the lease, we paid a
monthly rental of $9,200 and our proportionate share of the costs of fuel,
insurance, taxes and maintenance of the aircraft. We paid approximately
$212,283, $193,769 and $222,583 for the lease of the airplane during 2001, 2000
and 1999, respectively.

     An affiliate acted as the first purchaser of oil produced from certain
leases we operated during 1999. Sales of oil to that entity, both royalty and
working interest were approximately $8.4 million. There were no sales of oil to
that entity in 2001 or 2000.

     The Company operates certain oil and natural gas properties in which our
Chief Executive Officer, our President/Chief Operating Officer, our Chief
Financial Officer and other affiliated persons or entities, purchased a joint
interest ownership with us and other industry partners. We made oil and natural
gas production payments (net of royalty) of $8.3 million, $13.4 million and $6.1
million from these properties in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, to the
aforementioned persons or entities. These persons or entities reimbursed us for
joint operating costs of $5.9 million, $8.0 million and $5.9 million in 2001,
2000 and 1999, respectively.

     In 2001, we paid approximately $387,000 to an entity owned by a relative of
our President/Chief Operating Officer for certain equipment and metal
fabrication services. One of our directors is a director and an officer of a
company from which we purchased drill pipe, materials and supplies totalling
approximately $22.0 million in 2001. This same director was an officer of a
customer through February 2001 from which we received approximately $500,000 in
revenues in 2001.

                                        20
<PAGE>

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     As of December 31, 2001, we had working capital of approximately $110.2
million including cash and cash equivalents of approximately $33.6 million. For
2001, our significant sources of cash flow were:

     - $254.0 million derived from operations,

     - $6.1 million from the exercise of stock options and warrants,

     - $9.8 million of proceeds provided by a credit facility, and

     - $742,000 from the sale of certain property and equipment.

     Correspondingly, we used a portion of the funds discussed above as follows:

     - $89.2 million to repay notes payable,

     - $40.5 million as partial consideration in the acquisitions of Jones
       Drilling Corporation and the assets of three related entities, the
       drilling rigs and certain other assets of Cleere Drilling Company and six
       additional drilling rigs from three separate transactions,

     - $172.8 million to make capital expenditures for the betterment and
       refurbishment of our drilling rigs, as well as the acquisition and
       procurement of drilling equipment, including drill pipe, to fund
       leasehold acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural gas
       properties and to fund capital expenditures for our drilling and
       completion fluids and pressure pumping segments and

     - $1.1 million for the purchase of other long-term assets.

     During 2001, we entered into five separate transactions, all accounted for
as purchases, whereby we increased our land-based drilling rig fleet to 319, an
increase of 44 rigs from a year ago. A brief description of each of the
transactions follows:

     - On December 21, 2001, we acquired 17 drilling rigs and related equipment
       from Cleere Drilling Company for an aggregate purchase price of $25.8
       million. The purchase price consisted of $13.5 million cash plus 450,000
       shares of our common stock and warrants to acquire an additional 325,000
       shares of common stock at an exercise price of $26.75 per share. The
       common stock was recorded at $21.55 per share and the warrants were
       valued at $8.00 per underlying share of our common stock using the
       Black-Scholes option valuation model.

     - On January 5, 2001, we acquired Jones Drilling Corporation and certain
       assets of three entities related to Jones Drilling Corporation. The
       acquired assets consisted of 21 drilling rigs (of which 14 were then
       marketable) and related equipment and approximately $2.3 million of net
       working capital. The purchase price of $33.0 million consisted of 810,070
       shares of the Company's common stock valued at $26.8125 per share and
       $11.3 million cash plus approximately $240,000 in transaction costs.

     - In January 2001, we acquired six drilling rigs, through three separate
       transactions, for approximately $15.7 million cash.

     On February 4, 2001, Patterson entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger
with UTI providing for the merger of the two entities. On May 8, 2001, the
stockholders of each company approved the merger, and the merger was
consummated. Each outstanding share of UTI common stock was converted into one
share of Patterson common stock and each option or warrant then outstanding
representing the right to receive UTI common stock was converted into the right
to purchase Patterson-UTI common stock on an equivalent basis. A total of
37,782,135 shares of Patterson common stock was issued pursuant to the merger
and an additional 3,621,079 shares were reserved for issuance under the UTI
stock option plans. Additionally, our stockholders approved an increase in the
authorized shares of our common stock from 50 million to 200 million and a name
change to "Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc."

     During 2001, we repaid $89.2 million under our existing credit facilities
and other term obligations. We incurred expenses of $448,000 as a result of
prepayment penalties and $942,000 related to deferred financing

                                        21
<PAGE>

costs which were unamortized at the time the debt was extinguished. The
penalties and deferred financing costs were included in restructuring and
related charges during 2001.

     In June 2001, we increased our existing revolving line of credit to $100.0
million and extended the term of the facility to June 2005. The revolving line
of credit carries a floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 1.75% to 2.75% based on
twelve-month trailing EBITDA. The facility has no financial covenants unless
availability under the facility is less than $20.0 million. The terms of our
credit facility limit the payment of dividends without the prior written consent
of the lenders.

     We believe that the current level of cash and short-term investments,
together with cash generated from operations should be sufficient to meet our
immediate capital needs. From time to time, acquisition opportunities are
reviewed relating to our business. The timing, size or success of any
acquisition and the associated capital commitments are unpredictable. Should
further opportunities for growth requiring capital arise, we believe we would be
able to satisfy these needs through a combination of working capital, cash
generated from operations, and either debt or equity financing. However, there
can be no assurance that such capital would be available.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

COMPARISON OF THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 AND 2000

     The following tables summarize our operations for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2001 and 2000:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                    ------------------------------------
CONTRACT DRILLING                                      2001          2000       % CHANGE
- -----------------                                   ----------   ------------   --------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN 000'S)
<S>                                                 <C>          <C>            <C>
Revenues..........................................  $  839,931    $  512,998      63.7%
Drilling cost.....................................     487,343       384,840      26.6%
Selling, general and administrative...............       5,277         5,457      (3.3)%
Depreciation and amortization.....................      72,797        54,274      34.1%
Operating income..................................     274,514        68,427     301.2%
Rig utilization rate..............................          70%           66%      6.1%
Average number of rigs owned......................         302           263      14.8%
Operating days....................................      76,871        63,303      21.4%
Average revenue per operating day.................  $    10.93    $     8.10      34.9%
Average drilling cost per operating day...........        6.34          6.08       4.3%
</Table>

     The significant increases shown were reflective of increased activity in
the contract drilling industry and specifically:

     - increases in average rig utilization and in the number of operating days,

     - increases in dayrates as evidenced by average revenue per operating day,
       and

     - the addition of an average 39 drilling rigs from 2000 to 2001.

                                        22
<PAGE>

     Largely due to favorable commodity prices during the first half of 2001,
the demand for our contract drilling services was strong as we reached our peak
rig utilization of 81% in July. However, beginning in the third quarter of 2001
the industry conditions began to deteriorate as the commodity prices of oil and
natural gas significantly weakened. Market prices for oil fell from
approximately $27 per barrel at the end of 2000 to approximately $17 per barrel
in late 2001 and natural gas prices declined from approximately $10 per Mcf to
under $3 per Mcf for the same time period. Accordingly, the demand for our
contract drilling services has been negatively impacted. Should commodity prices
improve, we would expect to begin to see increases in demand.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                      --------------------------------
DRILLING AND COMPLETION FLUIDS                          2001        2000      % CHANGE
- ------------------------------                        ---------   ---------   --------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN 000'S)
<S>                                                   <C>         <C>         <C>
Revenues............................................  $  94,456   $  32,053     194.7%
Drilling and completion fluids cost.................     80,034      26,545     201.5%
Selling, general and administrative.................      7,936       4,294      84.8%
Depreciation and amortization.......................      2,644       1,464      80.6%
Operating income (loss).............................      3,842        (250)  1,636.8%
Total jobs..........................................      1,920         601     219.5%
Average revenue per job.............................  $   49.20   $   53.33      (7.7)%
</Table>

     The increases above were primarily attributable to the purchase of the
fluids division of Ambar, Inc., during October 2000 providing for twelve months
of activity in 2001 versus three months in 2000. Deteriorating industry
conditions as noted above also had an adverse impact on our drilling and
completion fluids division beginning in the third quarter of 2001. Should
industry conditions improve, we would expect to begin to see improvements in
such operations.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                      --------------------------------
PRESSURE PUMPING                                        2001        2000      % CHANGE
- ----------------                                      ---------   ---------   --------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN 000'S)
<S>                                                   <C>         <C>         <C>
Revenues............................................  $  39,600   $  21,465     84.5%
Pressure pumping cost...............................     21,146      13,403     57.8%
Selling, general and administrative.................      3,910       3,196     22.3%
Depreciation........................................      1,895       1,564     21.2%
Operating income....................................     12,649       3,302    283.1%
Total jobs..........................................      4,609       3,329     38.5%
Average revenue per job.............................  $    8.59   $    6.45     33.2%
</Table>

     The improvement in the pressure pumping segment's operating results were
primarily attributable to improved market conditions throughout 2001 as
evidenced by the increase in number of jobs and revenue per job.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                      --------------------------------
OTHER AND CORPORATE                                     2001        2000      % CHANGE
- -------------------                                   ---------   ---------   --------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN 000'S)
<S>                                                   <C>         <C>         <C>
Revenues............................................  $  15,988   $  15,806       1.2%
Other expenses......................................      4,370       4,725      (7.5)%
Selling, general and administrative.................     11,438       9,243      23.7%
Depreciation, depletion, and amortization...........      8,823       4,162     112.0%
Bad debt expense....................................      2,045         570     258.8%
Merger costs........................................      5,943          --     100.0%
Restructuring and related charges...................      7,202          --     100.0%
Operating loss......................................    (23,833)     (2,894)   (723.5)%
</Table>

     The merger costs and restructuring charges incurred in 2001 are associated
with our merger with UTI that occurred in 2001. Weakened commodity prices
resulted in depletion expense increasing from $3.4 million

                                        23
<PAGE>

in 2000 to $7.2 million in 2001. Included in depletion expense in 2001 is
approximately $1.1 million of impairment expense to our oil and natural gas
properties and other valuation allowances associated with impairment to our
undeveloped properties. This impairment is attributable to declining commodity
prices and unfavorable results from certain oil and natural gas prospects.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily as a result of
the increased activity as evidenced by the operating segments' individual
results of operations and the growth of our Company in 2001 through
acquisitions. Included in this increase are management and operational bonuses
resulting from improved operations.

COMPARISON OF THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 AND 1999

     The following tables summarize our operations for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2000 and 1999:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                    ----------------------------------
CONTRACT DRILLING                                      2000         1999      % CHANGE
- -----------------                                   ----------   ----------   --------
                                                            (DOLLARS IN 000'S)
<S>                                                 <C>          <C>          <C>
Revenues..........................................  $  512,998   $  266,212     92.7%
Drilling cost.....................................     384,840      224,590     71.4%
Selling, general and administrative...............       5,457        5,142      6.1%
Depreciation and amortization.....................      54,274       46,907     15.7%
Operating income (loss)...........................      68,427      (10,427)   756.2%
Rig utilization rate..............................          66%          43%    53.5%
Average number of rigs owned......................         263          231     13.9%
Operating days....................................      63,303       36,385     74.0%
Average revenue per operating day.................  $     8.10   $     7.32     10.7%
Average drilling cost per operating day...........        6.08         6.17     (1.5)%
</Table>

     The significant increases shown were reflective of increased activity in
the contract drilling industry and specifically:

     - increases in average rig utilization and in the number of operating days,

     - increases in dayrates as evidenced by average revenue per operating day,
       and

     - the addition of an average 32 drilling rigs from 1999 to 2000.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                      --------------------------------
DRILLING AND COMPLETION FLUIDS                          2000        1999      % CHANGE
- ------------------------------                        ---------   ---------   --------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN 000'S)
<S>                                                   <C>         <C>         <C>
Revenues............................................  $  32,053   $  11,686    174.3%
Drilling and completion fluids cost.................     26,545       9,864    169.1%
Selling, general and administrative.................      4,294       2,036    110.9%
Depreciation and amortization.......................      1,464       1,065     37.5%
Operating income (loss).............................       (250)     (1,279)    80.5%
Total jobs..........................................        601         504     19.2%
Average revenue per job.............................  $   53.33   $   23.19    130.0%
</Table>

                                        24
<PAGE>

     The increases above were primarily attributable to the purchase of the
fluids division of Ambar, Inc., during October 2000 providing for three months
of activity in 2000 and favorable industry conditions during most of 2000.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                      --------------------------------
PRESSURE PUMPING                                        2000        1999      % CHANGE
- ----------------                                      ---------   ---------   --------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN 000'S)
<S>                                                   <C>         <C>         <C>
Revenues............................................  $  21,465   $  20,721      3.6%
Pressure pumping cost...............................     13,403      12,219      9.7%
Selling, general and administrative.................      3,196       3,457     (7.5)%
Depreciation........................................      1,564       1,391     12.4%
Operating income....................................      3,302       3,654     (9.6)%
Total jobs..........................................      3,329       2,892     15.1%
Average revenue per job.............................  $    6.45   $    7.16     (9.9)%
</Table>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                       -------------------------------
OTHER AND CORPORATE                                      2000        1999     % CHANGE
- -------------------                                    ---------   --------   --------
                                                             (DOLLARS IN 000'S)
<S>                                                    <C>         <C>        <C>
Revenues.............................................  $  15,806   $  8,747      80.7%
Other (income) expenses..............................      4,725       (427)  1,206.6%
Selling, general and administrative..................      9,243      7,100      30.2%
Depreciation, depletion and amortization.............      4,162      3,190      30.5%
Bad debt expense.....................................        570        282     102.1%
Operating loss.......................................     (2,894)    (1,398)   (107.0)%
</Table>

     The increase in revenues in Other and Corporate is reflective of increased
activity in our oil and natural gas operations resulting from a rise in the
average price received for crude oil from $17.88 per BBL to $30.09 per BBL and a
rise in the average price received for natural gas from $2.31 per Mcf to $4.32
per Mcf from 1999 to 2000, respectively.

INCOME TAXES

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                        YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                   ----------------------------------
                                                      2001        2000        1999
                                                   ----------   ---------   ---------
                                                           (DOLLARS IN 000'S)
<S>                                                <C>          <C>         <C>
Total income tax provision (benefit).............  $  102,333   $  22,878   $  (4,766)
Effective tax rate...............................        38.4%       38.1%      (28.9)%
</Table>

     We recognized income tax benefit of $4.8 million for 1999, resulting from
losses from operations. We recognized income tax expense of $22.9 million for
2000, even though a minimal current expense existed due to loss carryforwards
from prior years.

     Our remaining unutilized investment tax credit carryforward expired in
2000. Net operating losses were fully utilized in 2001 and the remaining
alternative minimum tax credit may be carried forward indefinitely. Deferred tax
assets at December 31, 2001, consist primarily of various allowance accounts and
tax deferred expenses expected to generate a future tax benefit of approximately
$8.1 million.

     We record non-cash federal deferred income taxes based primarily on the
relationship between the amount of our unused federal NOL carryforwards and the
temporary differences between the book basis and tax basis in our assets.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. As a result of fully
recognizing the benefit of our deferred income taxes, we will incur deferred
income tax expense as these benefits are utilized. We incurred deferred income
tax expense of approximately $14.6 million and $15.9 million for 2001 and 2000,
respectively, and a deferred income tax benefit of approximately $4.9 million
for 1999.

                                        25
<PAGE>

VOLATILITY OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES

     Our revenue, profitability and future rate of growth are substantially
dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas, with respect to all of
our operating segments. Historically, oil and natural gas prices and markets
have been volatile. Prices are affected by market supply and demand factors as
well as actions of state and local agencies, the United States and foreign
governments and international cartels. All of these are beyond our control. Any
significant or extended decline in oil and/or natural gas prices would have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

     Due to a decline in oil and natural gas prices beginning in the second
quarter of 2001, demand for drilling rigs declined beginning in the third
quarter of 2001 and is continuing. This decline in demand has resulted in a
steep decline in drilling rig utilization and day rates, which in turn has
adversely impacted our operations.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

     We believe that inflation will not have a significant near-term impact on
our financial position.

RECENTLY-ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, "Business Combinations," ("SFAS No.
141") in June 2001. SFAS No. 141 addresses financial accounting and reporting
for business combinations and supersedes APB Opinion No. 16, "Business
Combinations," and FASB Statement No. 38, "Accounting for Preacquisition
Contingencies of Purchased Enterprises." SFAS No. 141 is effective for all
business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and mandates that such
combinations are to be accounted for using the purchase method. The Company
adopted SFAS No. 141 as of June 30, 2001.

     The FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,
"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," ("SFAS No. 142") in June 2001. SFAS No.
142 addresses financial accounting and reporting for acquired goodwill and other
intangible assets and supersedes APB Opinion No. 17, "Intangible Assets." SFAS
No. 142 applies to all fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. The
provisions of SFAS No. 142, which the Company adopted on January 1, 2002, are
not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial
statements. Approximately $4.6 million in amortization expenses recognized
during 2001 would not have been recognized under SFAS No. 142.

     The FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143,
"Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," ("SFAS No. 143") in July 2001.
SFAS No. 143 addresses financial accounting requirements for retirement
obligations associated with tangible long-lived assets. SFAS No. 143 is
effective beginning June 15, 2002. The provisions of SFAS No. 143 are not
expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial
statements.

     The FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," ("SFAS No.
144") in August 2001. SFAS No. 144 addresses financial accounting and reporting
for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets and supersedes SFAS No. 121
and APB Opinion No. 30. SFAS No. 144 is effective beginning January 1, 2002, and
is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated
financial statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     We currently have no exposure to interest rate market risk as we have no
outstanding balance under our credit facility. Should we incur a balance in the
future, we would have some exposure associated with the floating rate of the
interest charged on that balance. The credit facility, which expires on June 29,
2005, bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.75% to 2.75% based on the Company's
twelve-month trailing EBITDA. Our exposure to interest rate risk due to changes
in LIBOR is not expected to be material.

     We conduct some business in Canadian dollars through our Canadian
land-based drilling operations. The exchange rate between Canadian dollars and
U.S. dollars has fluctuated over the last ten years. If the value of

                                        26
<PAGE>

the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar weakens, revenues and earnings of
our Canadian operations will be reduced when they are translated to U.S.
dollars. Also, the value of our Canadian net assets in U.S. dollars may decline.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

     Financial Statements are filed as a part of this report at the end of Part
IV hereof beginning at page F-1, Index to Consolidated Financial Statements, and
are incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

                                        27
<PAGE>

                                    PART III

     The information required by Part III is omitted from this report because
Patterson-UTI will file a definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation 14A
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 no later than 120 days after the end of
the fiscal year covered by this document and certain information included
therein is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
to the Proxy Statement.

                                        28
<PAGE>

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a)(1) Financial Statements.

     See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1 of this report.

(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedule.

     Schedule II -- Valuation and qualifying accounts is filed herewith on page
S-1.

     All other financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are
not applicable or the information required therein is included elsewhere in the
financial statements or notes thereto.

(a)(3) Exhibits.

     The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference
herein.

<Table>
        <S>           <C>
          2.1         Plan and Agreement of Merger dated October 14, 1993, between
                      Patterson Energy, Inc., a Texas corporation, and Patterson
                      Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with related
                      Certificates of Merger.(1)

          2.2         Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated April 22, 1996 among
                      Patterson Energy, Inc., Patterson Drilling Company and
                      Tucker Drilling Company, Inc.(2)

          2.2.1       Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated May 16,
                      1996 among Patterson Energy, Inc., Patterson Drilling
                      Company and Tucker Drilling Company, Inc.(3)

          2.3         Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 5, 2001
                      among Patterson Energy, Inc., Patterson Drilling Company LP,
                      LLLP and Jones Drilling Corporation.(4)

          2.4         Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated February 4, 2001, by and
                      between UTI Energy Corp. and Patterson Energy, Inc.(5)

          2.5         Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2001
                      among Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc., Patterson-UTI Drilling
                      Company LP, LLLP and Cleere Drilling Company.

          3.1         Restated Certificate of Incorporation.(6)

          3.1.1       Certificate of Correction of Restated Certificate of
                      Incorporation.

          3.2         Amended and Restated Bylaws.

          3.3         Rights Agreement dated January 2, 1997, between Patterson
                      Energy, Inc. and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust
                      Company.(7)

          3.3.1       Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of October 23,
                      2001.(15)

          4.1         Excerpt from Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
                      Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. regarding authorized Common Stock
                      and Preferred Stock.(14)

          4.2         Certificate of Designation.(16)

          4.2.1       Amendment to Certificate of Designation.

          4.3         Registration Rights Agreement with Bear, Stearns and Co.
                      Inc., dated March 25, 1994, as assigned to REMY Capital
                      Partners III, L.P.

         10.1         Loan and Security Agreement, dated November 22, 1999.(14)

         10.1.1       First Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated May 2,
                      2000.(14)
</Table>

                                        29
<PAGE>
<Table>
        <S>           <C>
         10.1.2       Second Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated May
                      18, 2000.(14)

         10.1.3       Third Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated
                      October 18, 2000.(14)

         10.1.4       Fourth Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated May
                      8, 2001.(14)

         10.1.5       Fifth Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated June
                      29, 2001.(14)

         10.1.6       Revolving Loan Promissory Note, dated June 29, 2001.(14)

         10.1.7       Guaranty Agreement, dated June 29, 2001.(14)

         10.1.8       Pledge Agreement, dated June 29, 2001.(14)

         10.2         Aircraft Lease, dated December 20, 2000, (effective January
                      1, 2001) between Talbott Aviation, Inc. and Patterson
                      Energy, Inc.(8)

         10.3         Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan, as
                      amended.(9)

         10.4         Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. Non-Employee Directors' Stock
                      Option Plan, as amended.(10)

         10.5         Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated 1997
                      Long-Term Incentive Plan.(11)

         10.6         Amended and Restated Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan
                      of Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc.(12)

         10.7         Amended and Restated Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. 1996
                      Employee Stock Option Plan.(12)

         10.8         1997 Stock Option Plan of DSI Industries, Inc.(11)

         10.9         Stock Option Agreement dated July 20, 2001 between
                      Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. and Kenneth R. Peak (a
                      non-employee director of Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc.).

         10.10        Stock Option Agreement dated July 20, 2001 between
                      Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. and Stephen J. DeGroat (a
                      non-employee director of Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc.).

         10.11        Model Form Operating Agreement.(13)

         10.12        Form of Drilling Bid Proposal and Footage Drilling
                      Contract.(13)

         10.13        Form of Turnkey Drilling Agreement.(13)

         21.1         Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

         23.1         Consent of Independent Accountants -- PricewaterhouseCoopers
                      LLP.

         23.2         Consent of Independent Auditors -- Ernst & Young LLP.
</Table>

- ---------------

 (1) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 27, "Exhibits" to Amendment No. 2
     to Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (File No. 33-68058-FW) filed on
     October 28, 1993.

 (2) Incorporated by reference to Item 7, "Financial Statements and Exhibits" to
     Form 8-K dated April 22, 1996 and filed on April 30, 1996.

 (3) Incorporated by reference to Item 7, "Financial Statements and Exhibits" to
     Form 8-K dated May 16, 1996 and filed on May 22, 1996.

 (4) Incorporated by reference to Item 16, "Exhibits" to Registration Statement
     on Form S-3 filed on January 8, 2001.

 (5) Incorporated herein by reference to Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus filed
     on March 14, 2001.

 (6) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 7, "Financial Statements and
     Exhibits" to Form 8-K dated and filed on May 8, 2001.

                                        30
<PAGE>

 (7) Incorporated by reference to Item 2, "Exhibits" to Registration Statement
     on For 8-A filed on January 14, 1997.

 (8) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 14, "Exhibits, Financial Statement
     Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K" to Form 10-K dated December 31, 2000.

 (9) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 8, "Exhibits" to Registration
     Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-47917) filed on March 13, 1998.

(10) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 8, "Exhibits" to Registration
     Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 33-39471) filed on November 4, 1997.

(11) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 8, "Exhibits" to Post-Effective
     Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (file No. 333-60470)
     filed on July 25, 2001.

(12) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 8, "Exhibits" to Post-Effective
     Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (file No. 333-60466)
     filed on July 25, 2001.

(13) Incorporated by reference to Item 27, "Exhibits" to Registration Statement
     on Form SB-2 (File No. 33-68058-FW) filed on August 30, 1993.

(14) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 6, "Exhibits and Reports on Form
     8-K" to Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2001, filed on
     August 1, 2001.

(15) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 6, "Exhibits and Reports on Form
     8-K" to Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2001, filed
     on October 31, 2001.

(16) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 2, "Exhibits" to Registration
     Statement on Form 8-A (File No. 000-22664) filed on January 14, 1997.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

     There were no reports on Form 8-K filed during the three months ended
December 31, 2001.

                                        31
<PAGE>

                                    INDEX TO
                       CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              PAGE
                                                              ----
<S>                                                           <C>
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS; PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS
  LLP ......................................................  F-2
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS; ERNST & YOUNG LLP........  F-3
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2001 AND
     2000...................................................  F-4
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED
     DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999.......................  F-5
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY FOR THE
     YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999...........  F-6
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED
     DECEMBER 31, 2001, 2000 AND 1999.......................  F-7
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS................  F-9
</Table>

                                       F-1
<PAGE>

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc.

     In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the
consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Patterson-UTI
Energy, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2001 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion,
based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the financial schedule
listed in Item 14(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein, when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. The consolidated
financial statements give retroactive effect to the merger of UTI Energy Corp.
("UTI") on May 8, 2001 in a transaction accounted for as a pooling of interests,
as described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. We did not
audit the financial statements of UTI, which statements reflect total assets of
$330 million as of December 31, 2000 and total revenues of $275 million and $155
million for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Those
statements were audited by other auditors whose report thereon has been
furnished to us, and our opinion expressed herein, insofar as it relates to the
amounts included for UTI, is based solely on the report of the other auditors.
We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing
standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits and the report of other
auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Houston, Texas
January 28, 2002

                                       F-2
<PAGE>

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors
Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc.

     We have audited the consolidated balance sheet of UTI Energy Corp. as of
December 31, 2000 and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes
in shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the two years in the period
ended December 31, 2000 (not presented separately herein). Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14(a) of
UTI Energy Corp.'s Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31,
2000 (also not presented separately herein). These financial statements and
schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
UTI Energy Corp. at December 31, 2000, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended
December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as
a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

                                          Ernst & Young LLP

Houston, Texas
February 16, 2001

                                       F-3
<PAGE>

                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                 (In thousands)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                   DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -----------------------
                                                                 2001         2000
                                                              ----------   ----------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
                                       ASSETS


Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................................  $   33,584   $   66,916
  Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful
     accounts of $4,021 and $3,462 at December 31, 2001 and
     2000, respectively.....................................     133,837      136,894
  Federal and state income taxes receivable, net............       1,673        2,447
  Inventory.................................................      16,272       12,953
  Deferred tax assets.......................................       8,747       11,090
  Other.....................................................       5,345        7,442
                                                              ----------   ----------
          Total current assets..............................     199,458      237,742
Property and equipment, at cost, net........................     614,420      442,559
Intangible assets, net......................................      51,634       56,373
Other.......................................................       4,130        3,224
                                                              ----------   ----------
          Total assets......................................  $  869,642   $  739,898
                                                              ==========   ==========

                        LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


Current liabilities:
  Current maturities of notes payable.......................  $       --   $    4,477
  Accounts payable:
     Trade..................................................      47,945       71,769
     Other..................................................       4,833       10,119
  Accrued expenses..........................................      36,508       24,078
                                                              ----------   ----------
          Total current liabilities.........................      89,286      110,443
Deferred tax liabilities....................................      92,859       71,899
Other.......................................................         355        1,318
Notes payable...............................................          --       74,939
                                                              ----------   ----------
          Total liabilities.................................     182,500      258,599
                                                              ----------   ----------
Commitments and contingencies...............................          --           --
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, par value $.01; authorized 1,000 shares,
     no shares issued.......................................          --           --
Common stock, par value $.01; authorized 200,000 shares with
  78,463 and 76,250 issued and 76,956 and 74,743 outstanding
  at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively...............         784          763
Additional paid-in capital..................................     441,475      397,489
Retained earnings...........................................     258,834       94,672
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)...............      (2,296)          30
Treasury stock, at cost, 1,507 shares.......................     (11,655)     (11,655)
                                                              ----------   ----------
          Total stockholders' equity........................     687,142      481,299
                                                              ----------   ----------
          Total liabilities and stockholders' equity........  $  869,642   $  739,898
                                                              ==========   ==========
</Table>

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-4
<PAGE>

                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                     (In thousands, except per share data)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                         ------------------------------------
                                                            2001         2000         1999
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>
Operating revenues:
  Drilling.............................................  $  839,931   $  512,998   $  266,212
  Drilling and completion fluids.......................      94,456       32,053       11,686
  Pressure pumping.....................................      39,600       21,465       20,721
  Other................................................      15,988       15,806        8,747
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                            989,975      582,322      307,366
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Operating costs and expenses:
  Drilling.............................................     487,343      384,840      224,590
  Drilling and completion fluids.......................      80,034       26,545        9,864
  Pressure pumping.....................................      21,146       13,403       12,219
  Depreciation, depletion and amortization.............      86,159       61,464       52,553
  General and administrative...........................      28,561       22,190       17,735
  Bad debt expense.....................................       2,045          570          282
  Merger costs.........................................       5,943           --           --
  Restructuring and related charges....................       7,202           --           --
  Other................................................       4,370        4,725         (427)
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                            722,803      513,737      316,816
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Operating income (loss)................................     267,172       68,585       (9,450)
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Other income (expense):
  Interest income......................................       2,080        1,377        1,047
  Interest expense.....................................      (3,142)     (10,108)      (8,269)
  Other................................................         385          250          169
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                               (677)      (8,481)      (7,053)
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Income (loss) before income taxes......................     266,495       60,104      (16,503)
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Income tax expense (benefit):
  Current..............................................      87,773        6,931          134
  Deferred.............................................      14,560       15,947       (4,900)
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                            102,333       22,878       (4,766)
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Net income (loss)......................................  $  164,162   $   37,226   $  (11,737)
                                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
Net income (loss) per common share:
  Basic................................................  $     2.15   $     0.52   $    (0.18)
                                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
  Diluted..............................................  $     2.07   $     0.50   $    (0.18)
                                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
Weighted average number of common shares outstanding:
  Basic................................................      76,407       71,207       66,483
                                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
  Diluted..............................................      79,197       74,841       66,483
                                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
</Table>

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       F-5
<PAGE>

                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (In thousands)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                COMMON STOCK                                 ACCUMULATED
                             ------------------   ADDITIONAL                    OTHER
                              NUMBER               PAID-IN      RETAINED    COMPREHENSIVE    TREASURY
                             OF SHARES   AMOUNT    CAPITAL      EARNINGS    INCOME (LOSS)     STOCK        TOTAL
                             ---------   ------   ----------   ----------   -------------   ----------   ----------
<S>                          <C>         <C>      <C>          <C>          <C>             <C>          <C>
December 31, 1998..........    64,897    $  649   $  241,054   $   69,183     $      --     $  (10,005)  $  300,881
  Issuance of common
     stock.................     3,422        34       17,439           --            --             --       17,473
  Stock option
     compensation..........        --        --          250           --            --             --          250
  Exercise of stock
     options...............     1,223        12        2,118           --            --             --        2,130
  Tax benefit related to
     exercise of stock
     options...............        --        --          698           --            --             --          698
  Net loss.................        --        --           --      (11,737)           --             --      (11,737)
                             --------    ------   ----------   ----------     ---------     ----------   ----------
December 31, 1999..........    69,542       695      261,559       57,446            --        (10,005)     309,695
  Issuance of common
     stock.................     4,203        42      120,964           --            --             --      121,006
  Issuance of stock
     purchase warrant......        --        --          900           --            --             --          900
  Treasury stock
     acquired..............        --        --           --           --            --         (1,650)      (1,650)
  Exercise of stock
     purchase warrants.....     1,054        11          683           --            --             --          694
  Exercise of stock
     options...............     1,451        15        6,254           --            --             --        6,269
  Tax benefit related to
     exercise of stock
     options...............        --        --        7,129           --            --             --        7,129
  Foreign currency
     translation...........        --        --           --           --            30             --           30
  Net income...............        --        --           --       37,226            --             --       37,226
                             --------    ------   ----------   ----------     ---------     ----------   ----------
December 31, 2000..........    76,250       763      397,489       94,672            30        (11,655)     481,299
  Issuance of common
     stock.................     1,260        12       31,405           --            --             --       31,417
  Issuance of stock
     purchase warrant......        --        --        2,600           --            --             --        2,600
  Exercise of stock
     purchase warrants.....       121         1        1,819           --            --             --        1,820
  Exercise of stock
     options...............       832         8        4,237           --            --             --        4,245
  Tax benefit related to
     exercise of stock
     options...............        --        --        3,925           --            --             --        3,925
  Foreign currency
     translation...........        --        --           --           --        (2,326)            --       (2,326)
  Net income...............        --        --           --      164,162            --             --      164,162
                             --------    ------   ----------   ----------     ---------     ----------   ----------
December 31, 2001..........    78,463    $  784   $  441,475   $  258,834     $  (2,296)    $  (11,655)  $  687,142
                             ========    ======   ==========   ==========     =========     ==========   ==========
</Table>

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       F-6
<PAGE>

                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In thousands)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                       --------------------------------------
                                                          2001          2000          1999
                                                       -----------   -----------   ----------
<S>                                                    <C>           <C>           <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income (loss)..................................  $   164,162   $    37,226   $  (11,737)
  Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net
     cash provided by operating activities:
  Depreciation, depletion and amortization...........       86,159        61,464       52,553
  Bad debt expense...................................        2,045           570          282
  Deferred income tax expense (benefit)..............       14,560        15,947       (4,900)
  Other..............................................         (647)          881       (2,356)
     Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
       Trade accounts receivable and other current
          assets.....................................        9,612       (54,679)     (15,703)
       Inventory.....................................       (3,320)       (1,539)        (796)
       Accrued federal income taxes receivable.......        4,721         2,596        6,557
       Trade accounts payable and other
          liabilities................................      (23,286)       35,731       14,532
                                                       -----------   -----------   ----------
          Net cash provided by operating
            activities...............................      254,006        98,197       38,432
                                                       -----------   -----------   ----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Acquisitions.......................................      (40,546)      (56,627)      (7,540)
  Purchases of property and equipment................     (172,850)      (95,822)     (28,529)
  Proceeds from sales of property and equipment......          742         3,528        7,469
  Change in other assets and intangible assets.......       (1,101)          630       (1,281)
                                                       -----------   -----------   ----------
          Net cash used in investing activities......     (213,755)     (148,291)     (29,881)
                                                       -----------   -----------   ----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from issuance of common stock.............           --        98,766           --
  Purchase of treasury stock.........................           --        (1,650)          --
  Proceeds from issuance of notes payable............        9,760        76,392       50,000
  Payments of notes payable..........................      (89,176)      (79,766)     (63,665)
  Proceeds from exercise of stock options and
     warrants........................................        6,065         6,963        2,130
                                                       -----------   -----------   ----------
          Net cash provided by (used in) financing
            activities...............................      (73,351)      100,705      (11,535)
                                                       -----------   -----------   ----------
          Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash
            equivalents..............................      (33,100)       50,611       (2,984)
          Effect of exchange rate changes on cash....         (232)          (34)          --
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year.......       66,916        16,339       19,323
                                                       -----------   -----------   ----------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year.............  $    33,584   $    66,916   $   16,339
                                                       ===========   ===========   ==========
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
  Net cash paid during the year for:
          Interest...................................  $     3,142   $    10,097   $    7,343
          Income taxes...............................       81,802         3,319        1,012
</Table>

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       F-7
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS -- (CONTINUED)

Non-cash investing and financing activities:

     During 2001 the Company acquired Jones Drilling Corporation and certain
assets of three other entities affiliated with Jones Drilling Corporation for
$33.0 million, drilling rigs and related equipment from Cleere Drilling Company
for an aggregate purchase price of $25.8 million and six drilling rigs through
three separate transactions for $15.7 million. Of the $74.6 million,
approximately $40.5 million was paid in cash as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                           <C>
Purchase price..............................................    $   74,563
Less non-cash items:
  Common stock issued.......................................       (31,417)
  Warrants issued...........................................        (2,600)
                                                                ----------
          Total cash paid...................................    $   40,546
                                                                ==========
</Table>

     During May, 2000, the Company, in a non monetary exchange of similar
productive assets, acquired a drilling rig in exchange for certain drilling rig
components and drill pipe with a net book value of approximately $970,000. No
gain or loss was recognized on this transaction.

     During 2000, the Company acquired WEK Drilling Co., Inc., High Valley
Drilling, Inc., the land drilling operations of Phelps Drilling International,
Ltd. and the drilling and completion fluids operations of Ambar, Inc., for an
aggregate purchase price of approximately $70.6 million, of which approximately
$47.4 million was paid in cash as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                           <C>
Purchase price..............................................    $   70,558
Less non-cash items:
  Common stock issued.......................................       (22,240)
  Warrants issued...........................................          (900)
                                                                ----------
          Total cash paid...................................    $   47,418
                                                                ==========
</Table>

     During 1999, the Company acquired Norton Drilling Services, Inc., Schneider
Drilling Corporation and the drilling assets of Padre Industries, Inc. for an
aggregate purchase price of $32.7 million, of which approximately $7.5 million
was paid in cash.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                           <C>
Purchase price..............................................    $   32,763
Less non-cash items:
  Common stock issued.......................................       (17,312)
  Debt assumed..............................................        (7,951)
                                                                ----------
          Total cash paid...................................    $    7,500
                                                                ==========
</Table>

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       F-8
<PAGE>

                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     A description and basis of presentation follows:

     Description of business -- Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. and its wholly-owned
subsidiaries, (collectively referred to herein as "Patterson-UTI" or the
"Company") is a leading provider of onshore contract drilling services to major
and independent oil and natural gas producers and operators in Texas, New
Mexico, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Mississippi, Utah and Western Canada. The Company
owns the second largest land-based drilling fleet in North America with 319
drilling rigs. The Company provides drilling fluids, completion fluids and
related services to oil and natural gas producers in the Permian Basin of West
Texas and Southeast New Mexico, South Texas, East Texas, Oklahoma, the Gulf
Coast regions of Texas and Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company also
provides pressure pumping services in the Appalachian Basin. To a lesser extent,
the Company is engaged in the development, exploration, acquisition and
production of oil and natural gas. The Company's oil and natural gas operations
are not financially material and do not warrant disclosure as a business
segment.

     Patterson Energy, Inc. ("Patterson") and UTI Energy Corp. ("UTI")
consummated a merger, with Patterson as the surviving entity, which was treated
as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, and accounted for as a pooling of interests for
financial accounting purposes. Accordingly, historical financial statements as
presented herein, have been restated to provide for the retroactive effect of
the merger. At the time of the merger, the name of Patterson Energy, Inc. was
changed to "Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc." (See Note 2).

     Basis of presentation -- The consolidated financial statements of
Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries have been prepared
to give retroactive effect to the merger between Patterson and UTI on May 8,
2001. These financial statements also give retroactive effect to the two for one
stock split in October 2001 by UTI.

     A summary of the significant accounting policies follows:

     Principles of consolidation -- The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of Patterson-UTI and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

     Management estimates -- The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses
during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     Revenue recognition -- Generally, revenues are recognized when services are
performed. The Company follows the percentage-of-completion method of accounting
for footage contract drilling arrangements. Under this method, all drilling
revenues, direct costs and appropriate portions of indirect costs, related to
the contracts in progress, are recognized as contract drilling services are
performed. Due to the nature of turnkey contract drilling arrangements and risks
therein, the Company follows the completed contract method of accounting for
such arrangements. Under this method, all drilling advances, direct costs and
appropriate portions of indirect costs (including maintenance and repairs)
related to the contracts in progress are deferred and recognized as revenues and
expenses in the period the contracts are completed. Provisions for losses on
incomplete or in-process contracts are made when estimated total costs are
expected to exceed total estimated revenues.

     Inventories -- Inventories consist primarily of chemical products to be
used in conjunction with the Company's drilling and completion fluids
activities. The inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market,
determined by the first-in, first-out method.
                                       F-9
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
   POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)

     Property and equipment -- Property and equipment (other than oil and
natural gas) -- is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation
is provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives as
defined below. The Company incurred depreciation expense of approximately $72.6
million, $52.0 million and $43.9 million for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  USEFUL
                                                               LIVES (YEARS)
                                                               -------------
<S>                                                            <C>
Drilling rigs and related equipment.........................       2-15
Office furniture............................................       3-10
Buildings...................................................       5-30
Automotive equipment........................................        2-7
Other.......................................................        3-7
</Table>

     Oil and natural gas properties -- The Company follows the successful
efforts method of accounting, using the field as its accumulation center for
capitalized costs. Under the successful efforts method of accounting, costs
which result directly in the discovery of oil and natural gas reserves and all
development costs are capitalized. Exploration costs which do not result
directly in discovering oil and natural gas reserves are charged to expense when
such determinations are made. The capitalized costs, consisting of lease and
well equipment, lease acquisition costs and intangible development costs are
depreciated, depleted and amortized on the units-of-production method, based on
petroleum engineer estimates of recoverable proved developed oil and natural gas
reserves of each respective field. The Company incurred depletion expense of
approximately $7.2 million, $3.4 million and $2.6 million for 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively.

     Impairment of long-lived assets -- Net capitalized costs of long-lived
assets, certain identifiable intangibles and goodwill are reduced to reflect an
amount which is expected to be recovered through the future cash flows generated
by the use of the related assets. Impairment of proved oil and natural gas
properties is periodically assessed based on estimated future net cash flows at
a field level as determined by an independent reserve engineer. The Company
incurred approximately $1.2 million and $275,000 of impairment to such
properties for 2001 and 1999, respectively. Impairment of the oil and natural
gas properties was primarily attributable to declines in the market prices of
crude oil and natural gas and related revisions to existing reserve estimates.
Impairment expense is included in depreciation, depletion and amortization in
the accompanying financial statements.

     Maintenance and repairs -- Maintenance and repairs are charged against
operations. Renewals and betterments which extend the life or improve existing
properties are capitalized.

     Retirements -- Upon disposition or retirement of property and equipment
(other than oil and natural gas properties), the cost and related accumulated
depreciation are removed and the gain or loss thereon, if any, is credited or
charged to operations. The Company recognizes the gain or loss on the sale of
either a part of a proved oil and natural gas property or an entire proved oil
and natural gas property constituting a part of a field upon the sale or
disposition of such. The unamortized cost of the property or group of
properties, a part of which was sold or otherwise disposed of, is apportioned to
the interest sold and the interest retained on the basis of the fair value of
those interests.

     Intangible assets -- Intangible assets consist primarily of goodwill and
covenants not to compete arising from business combinations (see Notes 2 and 5).
The values assigned to intangible assets, based in part upon independent
appraisals, are amortized on a straight line basis. Goodwill, representing the
excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net assets of
the acquired business, is amortized over the period of expected benefit of 15
years. Covenants not to compete are amortized over their underlying

                                       F-10
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
   POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)

contractual lives. Amortization expense charged to operations for the years
ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 was approximately $5.2 million, $6.0
million and $5.8 million, respectively.

     Earnings per share -- The Company provides a dual presentation of its
earnings per share; Basic Earnings per Share ("Basic EPS") and Diluted Earnings
per Share ("Diluted EPS") in its Consolidated Statements of Operations. Basic
EPS is computed using the weighted average number of shares outstanding during
the year. Diluted EPS includes common stock equivalents, which are dilutive to
earnings per share. Dilutive securities, consisting of certain stock options and
warrants as described in Note 10, of approximately 4.1 million were excluded
from the December 31, 1999 calculation of Diluted EPS as a result of the
Company's net loss for that year. For the years ended December 31, 2001 and
2000, dilutive securities included in the calculation of Diluted EPS were 2.8
million shares and 3.6 million shares, respectively. There are 490,000 of
potentially dilutive shares and warrants outstanding at December 31, 2001 due to
their exercise prices being greater than the average exercise price for the year
2001.

     Income taxes -- The asset and liability method is used in accounting for
income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards and for the future
tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the results of
operations in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance
is recorded to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets unless it is
more likely than not that such assets will be realized.

     Stock based compensation -- The Company grants stock options to employees
and non-employee directors under stock-based incentive compensation plans, (the
"Plans"). The Company uses the intrinsic value based method of accounting for
the Plans. Under this method, the Company records no compensation expense for
stock options granted when the exercise price for options granted is equal to or
greater than the fair market value of the Company's stock on the date of the
grant.

     Statement of cash flows -- For purposes of reporting cash flows, cash and
cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash on deposit and unrestricted
certificates of deposit with original maturities of 90 days or less.

     Recently Issued Accounting Standards -- The Financial Accounting Standards
Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141,
"Business Combinations," ("SFAS No. 141") in June 2001. SFAS No. 141 addresses
financial accounting and reporting for business combinations and supersedes APB
Opinion No. 16, "Business Combinations," and FASB Statement No. 38, "Accounting
for Preacquisition Contingencies of Purchased Enterprises." SFAS No. 141 is
effective for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and
mandates that such combinations are to be accounted for using the purchase
method. The Company adopted SFAS No. 141 as of June 30, 2001.

     The FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,
"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," ("SFAS No. 142") in June 2001. SFAS No.
142 addresses financial accounting and reporting for acquired goodwill and other
intangible assets and supersedes APB Opinion No. 17, "Intangible Assets." SFAS
No. 142 applies to all fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. The
provisions of SFAS No. 142, which the Company adopted on January 1, 2002, are
not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial
statements. Approximately $4.6 million in amortization expenses recognized
during 2001 would not have been recognized under SFAS No. 142.

                                       F-11
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING
   POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)

     The FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143,
"Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," ("SFAS No. 143") in July 2001.
SFAS No. 143 addresses financial accounting requirements for retirement
obligations associated with tangible long-lived assets. SFAS No. 143 is
effective beginning June 15, 2002. The provisions of SFAS No. 143 are not
expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial
statements.

     The FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144,
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets," ("SFAS No.
144") in August 2001. SFAS No. 144 addresses financial accounting and reporting
for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets and supersedes SFAS No. 121
and APB Opinion No. 30. SFAS No. 144 is effective beginning January 1, 2002, and
is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated
financial statements.

     Reclassifications -- Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1999
and 2000 consolidated financial statements in order for them to conform with the
2001 presentation.

2. MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS

2001 MERGER AND ACQUISITIONS

     Cleere Drilling Company -- On December 21, 2001, the Company acquired 17
drilling rigs and related equipment from Cleere Drilling Company for an
aggregate purchase price of $25.8 million. The purchase price consisted of $13.5
million cash plus 450,000 shares of its common stock and warrants to acquire an
additional 325,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $26.75 per
share. The common stock was recorded at $21.55 per share and the warrants were
valued at $8.00 per underlying share of the Company's Common Stock using the
Black-Scholes option valuation model. All of the purchase price was allocated to
the rigs acquired.

     UTI Energy Corp. -- On February 4, 2001, Patterson entered into an
Agreement and Plan of Merger with UTI providing for the merger of the two
entities. On May 8, 2001, the stockholders of each company approved the merger
and the merger was consummated. Each outstanding share of UTI common stock was
converted into one share of Patterson common stock and each option or warrant
then outstanding representing the right to receive UTI common stock was
converted into the right to purchase Patterson-UTI common stock on an equivalent
basis. A total of 37,782,135 shares of common stock was issued pursuant to the
merger and an additional 3,621,079 shares were reserved for issuance under the
then outstanding UTI stock option plans. Additionally, the stockholders of
Patterson approved an increase in the authorized shares of common stock from 50
million to 200 million and a name change to "Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc."

     The Company incurred $13.1 million in expenses related to the merger, of
which approximately $2.2 million are unpaid as of December 31, 2001. Such
expenses consisted of $5.9 million in merger costs which were primarily related
to professional fees paid to investment banking firms, attorneys, accountants
and commercial printers for their professional services rendered and $7.2
million in restructuring costs and related charges incurred as a result of the
following:

     - severance costs and related expenses of $2.8 million,

     - closing of duplicate operational facilities of $1.6 million,

     - costs of $1.4 million incurred in connection with changes to the
       Company's credit facilities (see Note 7), and

     - fees and expenses related to the transfer of licenses and leaseholds, and
       in some instances the impairment of such leaseholds, the combination or
       cancellation of various service contracts and the renegotiation of
       certain insurance policies of approximately $1.4 million.

                                       F-12
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

2. MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS -- (CONTINUED)

     The merger was treated as a reorganization within the meaning of Section
368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and was accounted for
as a pooling of interests for financial accounting purposes. The consolidated
financial statements give retroactive effect to the merger, which includes
combining the companies' historical consolidated financial statements for the
years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999. Certain adjustments were made in those
periods to conform the previous accounting policies of UTI with those of
Patterson.

     Selected unaudited pro forma information related to the operations of
Patterson and UTI for the three months ended March 31, 2001 follows (in
thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                            PATTERSON     UTI      ADJUSTMENTS   COMBINED
                                            ---------   --------   -----------   --------
                                                             (UNAUDITED)
<S>                                         <C>         <C>        <C>           <C>
Revenues..................................  $129,936    $108,390      $260       $238,586
Operating income..........................    32,702      26,431        27         59,160
Net income................................    20,544      16,050        17         36,611
</Table>

     Jones Drilling Corporation -- On January 5, 2001, the Company consummated
the transactions contemplated by certain agreements among the Company and Jones
Drilling Corporation and three of its affiliated entities. The acquired assets
consisted of 21 drilling rigs and related equipment and approximately $2.3
million of net working capital. The purchase price of $33.2 million consisted of
810,070 shares of the Company's common stock valued at $26.8125 per share and
$11.3 million cash plus approximately $240,000 in transaction costs. The
purchase price, net of working capital was allocated among the assets acquired
based on their estimated fair market values as of the date of the transaction.

     Other.  In January 2001, the Company acquired six drilling rigs, through
three separate transactions, for approximately $15.7 million cash in aggregate.
All of the purchase price was allocated to the rigs acquired.

2000 MERGER AND ACQUISITIONS

     Ambar, Inc. -- In October 2000, the Company completed, through a wholly
owned subsidiary, the acquisition of the drilling and completion fluid
operations of Ambar, Inc., a non-affiliated entity with its principal operations
in Louisiana, the Gulf Coast region of South Texas and the Gulf of Mexico. The
purchase price of $12.4 million consisted of cash of $11.7 million and $680,000
of direct costs incurred related to the acquisition. The assets acquired
included net working capital of approximately $7.8 million (current assets of
$18.2 million and current liabilities assumed of $10.4 million). The purchase
price, net of working capital acquired, was allocated to the fixed assets based
on their estimated fair market values as of the date of the transaction.

     The Company's operating results include the operations of the acquired
entity since the acquisition date. The following summary, prepared on a pro
forma basis, combines the consolidated results of operations as if the
transactions had occurred on January 1, 1999, after including the impact of
certain adjustments, such as

                                       F-13
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

2. MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS -- (CONTINUED)

restatement of depreciation using fair values instead of book values of the
assets acquired, the increased interest expense on the acquisition debt and the
related income tax effects.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------------
                                                                 2000          1999
                                                              -----------   -----------
                                                                     (UNAUDITED)
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER
                                                                   SHARE AMOUNTS)
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
Revenues....................................................   $632,416      $373,674
Net income (loss)...........................................     38,315       (12,767)
Net income (loss) per basic share...........................   $   0.54      $  (0.19)
Net income (loss) per diluted share.........................       0.51         (0.19)
</Table>

     The pro forma results have been prepared for comparative purposes only and
do not purport to be indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition
been made as of the date indicated. In addition, they are not intended to be a
projection of future results and do not reflect any synergies that might be
achieved from combined operations.

     In September 2000, the Company acquired four drilling rigs in two separate
transactions for a total of $7.7 million in cash. The purchase price was
allocated to the rigs acquired.

     High Valley Drilling, Inc. -- On June 2, 2000, the Company completed the
merger of High Valley Drilling, Inc., a privately held, non-affiliated company,
with and into Patterson-UTI Drilling Company LP, LLLP, a wholly owned subsidiary
of Patterson-UTI. The purchase price of $21.8 million was funded using 1,150,000
shares of common stock valued at $18 per share, three-year warrants to acquire
127,000 shares at $22 per share and approximately $208,000 of direct costs
incurred related to the transaction. Using a Black-Scholes model, the warrants
were valued at $900,000. The assets acquired consisted of eight drilling rigs
and other related equipment. The purchase price was allocated among such assets
based upon the estimated fair market value of the drilling rigs and related
equipment.

     Asset Swap. -- On May 15, 2000, the Company, in a non-monetary exchange,
acquired a drilling rig in exchange for certain drilling rig components and
drill pipe with a net book value of approximately $970,000. No gain or loss was
recognized on this transaction.

     Phelps Drilling International Ltd. -- On May 5, 2000, the Company acquired
the land drilling operations of Phelps Drilling International Ltd. for $29.6
million in cash. Phelps' assets and operations are located in the Canadian
provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and British Columbia. The acquisition was
accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. The acquired assets
consisted of fourteen land drilling rigs and related equipment. The purchase
price was allocated among such assets based upon the fair market value of the
drilling rigs and related equipment.

     WEK Drilling Co., Inc. -- On March 31, 2000, the Company acquired the
outstanding stock of WEK Drilling Co., Inc., a privately held, non-affiliated
drilling company with its principal operations in Southeast New Mexico. The
purchase price of $6.8 million, which is net of cash acquired, was funded using
$5.66 million of proceeds from the Company's existing credit facility and 53,000
shares of the Company's common stock valued at $29.0625 per share and
approximately $77,000 of direct costs incurred related to the transaction. The
assets acquired consisted of four operable drilling rigs, other related
equipment, and working capital of $1.2 million. Immediately following the
transaction, certain assets unrelated to the oil and natural gas industry were
sold back to one of the previous owners for a cash payment of $1.0 million. The
purchase price of $6.8 million, less the $1.0 million of unrelated assets that
were subsequently sold and the net working capital acquired, was allocated among
the acquired assets based upon the estimated fair market value of the drilling
rigs and related equipment.

                                       F-14
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

2. MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS -- (CONTINUED)

1999 ACQUISITIONS

     Schneider Drilling Corporation -- On December 14, 1999, the Company
acquired the land drilling assets of Schneider Drilling Corporation for $7.5
million in cash. The acquisition was accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting. Schneider's assets included three land drilling rigs, major
components for two additional drilling rigs and drilling equipment. The purchase
price was allocated among such assets based upon the fair market value of the
drilling rigs and related equipment.

     Norton Drilling Services, Inc. -- On July 27, 1999, the Company acquired
Norton Drilling Services, Inc., for approximately 2.6 million shares of the
Company's common stock valued at $5.12 per common share, for a purchase price of
$13.3 million. The Company also repaid approximately $8.0 million of Norton's
existing debt upon the acquisition. The acquisition was accounted for under the
purchase method of accounting. Norton's assets included sixteen drilling rigs
and related equipment. The purchase price was allocated among the assets and
liabilities acquired based upon their fair market value.

     Padre Industries, Inc. -- On January 27, 1999, the Company completed the
acquisition of five drilling rigs and other related equipment from a privately
held, non-affiliated entity based in Corpus Christi, Texas. The purchase price
consisted of 800,000 shares of the Company's stock at a guaranteed value of
$5.00 per share. As part of the acquisition agreement, the Company had the
option exercisable on February 1, 2000 to buy back 300,000 of the 800,000 shares
at $5.50 per share. The Company exercised its option on February 1, 2000. The
purchase price of $4.0 million was allocated among such assets based upon the
estimated fair market value of the drilling rigs and related equipment.

     The aforementioned acquisitions, excluding the merger with UTI, completed
during fiscal years 2001, 2000 and 1999 have been accounted for as purchases and
the related results of operations and cash flows of the acquired entities have
been included in the consolidated financial statements since their respective
dates of acquisition.

3. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     The following table illustrates the Company's comprehensive income
including the effects of foreign currency translation adjustments for the years
ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                 2001        2000
                                                              ----------   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Net income..................................................  $  164,162   $  37,226
Other comprehensive income (loss):
Foreign currency translation adjustment related to our
  Canadian operations.......................................      (2,326)         30
                                                              ----------   ---------
Comprehensive income........................................  $  161,836   $  37,256
                                                              ==========   =========
</Table>

     Accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2001 and 2000
consists entirely of foreign currency translation adjustments.

                                       F-15
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

4. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment consisted of the following at December 31, 2001 and
2000 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2001          2000
                                                            -----------   -----------
<S>                                                         <C>           <C>
Drilling rigs and related equipment.......................  $   810,910   $   592,717
Other equipment...........................................       46,201        30,410
Oil and natural gas properties............................       51,080        40,686
Buildings.................................................       10,357         9,836
Land......................................................        3,703         3,273
                                                            -----------   -----------
                                                                922,251       676,922
Less accumulated depreciation and depletion...............     (307,831)     (234,363)
                                                            -----------   -----------
                                                            $   614,420   $   442,559
                                                            ===========   ===========
</Table>

5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     Intangible assets consisted of the following at December 31, 2001 and 2000
(in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2001          2000
                                                            -----------   -----------
<S>                                                         <C>           <C>
Goodwill..................................................  $    69,860   $    69,860
Covenants not to compete..................................        2,048         1,861
Other.....................................................        1,587         1,341
                                                            -----------   -----------
                                                                 73,495        73,062
Less accumulated amortization.............................      (21,861)      (16,689)
                                                            -----------   -----------
                                                            $    51,634   $    56,373
                                                            ===========   ===========
</Table>

6. ACCRUED EXPENSES

     Accrued expenses consisted of the following at December 31, 2001 and 2000
(in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2001          2000
                                                            -----------   -----------
<S>                                                         <C>           <C>
Salaries, wages, payroll taxes and benefits...............  $    13,833   $    13,430
Workers' compensation liability...........................       10,683         5,685
Sales, use and other taxes................................        4,758         2,803
Insurance, other than workers' compensation...............        1,777           281
Merger related costs......................................        2,200            --
Other.....................................................        3,257         1,879
                                                            -----------   -----------
                                                            $    36,508   $    24,078
                                                            ===========   ===========
</Table>

                                       F-16
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

7. NOTES PAYABLE

     The Company had no outstanding notes payable at December 31, 2001. Notes
payable consisted of the following at December 31, 2000 (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                2000
                                                              ---------
<S>                                                           <C>
Revolving credit facility...................................  $  50,710
Non-revolving credit facility...............................     24,416
Promissory notes............................................      4,290
                                                              ---------
                                                                 79,416
Less current maturities.....................................     (4,477)
                                                              ---------
                                                              $  74,939
                                                              =========
</Table>

     On November 22, 1999, the Company entered into a $65.0 million revolving
credit facility. The maximum borrowings under this revolving credit facility
were increased to $75.0 million in May of 2000, to $90.0 million in October of
2000 and later increased to $100.0 million in June 2001 when the term of the
facility was also extended to June 2005. A fee of .375% per annum is assessed on
the unused facility amount. The amount used for letters of credit decreases the
borrowing base of the facility on a dollar-for-dollar basis. The revolving
credit facility calls for periodic interest payments at a floating rate ranging
from LIBOR plus 1.75% to 2.75%. Assets of the Company secure the facility. The
facility has restrictions customary in financial instruments of this type
including restrictions on certain investments, acquisitions and loans. The
facility has no financial covenants unless availability under the facility is
less than $20.0 million. There were no amounts drawn under the facility at
December 31, 2001. The terms of our facility limit the payment of dividends
without the prior written consent of the lenders.

     During 2001, the Company repaid $89.2 million under its existing credit
facilities and other term obligations. The Company incurred expenses of $448,000
as a result of prepayment penalties and $942,000 related to deferred financing
costs which were unamortized at the time the debt was extinguished. The
penalties and deferred financing costs are included in restructuring and related
charges for 2001.

     The Company maintains letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $20.0
million for the benefit of various insurance companies as collateral for
retrospective premiums and retained losses which could become payable under the
terms of the underlying insurance contracts. These letters of credit expire
variously during each calendar year, but provide for an indefinite number of
annual extensions of the expiration date. No amounts have been drawn under the
letters of credit.

8. COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND OTHER MATTERS

     Contingencies -- The Company's contract services and oil and natural gas
exploration and production operations are subject to inherent risks, including
blowouts, cratering, fire and explosions which could result in personal injury
or death, suspended drilling operations, damage to, or destruction of equipment,
damage to producing formations and pollution or other environmental hazards.

     As a protection against these hazards, the Company maintains general
liability insurance coverage of $2.0 million per occurrence with $4.0 million of
aggregate coverage and excess liability and umbrella coverages up to $50.0
million per occurrence with a $50.0 million aggregate.

     The Company believes it is adequately insured for public liability and
property damage to others with respect to its operations. However, such
insurance may not be sufficient to protect the Company against liability for all
consequences of well disasters, extensive fire damage or damage to the
environment. The Company also carries insurance to cover physical damage to, or
loss of, its rigs; however, it does not carry

                                       F-17
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

8.  COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND OTHER MATTERS -- (CONTINUED)

insurance against loss of earnings resulting from such damage or loss. The
Company's lender who has a security interest in the drilling rigs is named as
loss payee on the physical damage insurance on such rigs.

     Westfort Energy LTD and Westfort Energy (US) LTD f/k/a Canadian Delta, Inc.
("Westfort"), filed a lawsuit against two Patterson-UTI subsidiaries, Patterson
Petroleum LP and Patterson Drilling Company LP, in the Circuit Court, Rankin
County, Mississippi, Case No. 2002-18. The lawsuit relates to a letter agreement
entered into in July 2000 between Patterson Petroleum and Westfort concerning
the drilling of a daywork well in Mississippi. This lawsuit was filed by
Westfort after Patterson Petroleum made demand on Westfort for payment of the
contract drilling services.

     In this lawsuit, Westfort alleges breach of contract, fraud and negligence
causes of action. Westfort seeks alleged monetary damages, the return of shares
of Westfort stock, unspecified damages from alleged lost profits, lost use of
income stream and additional operating expenses, along with alleged punitive
damages to be determined by the jury, but not less than 25% of Patterson's net
worth. The Company intends to vigorously contest the allegations made by
Westfort and assert claims against Westfort, including for the monies owed
Patterson under the letter agreement in the amount of approximately $5,075,000.

     In addition to the Westfort lawsuit, the Company is party to various legal
proceedings arising in the normal course of its business. The Company does not
believe that the outcome of these proceedings, either individually or in the
aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition.

9. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     During December 2001, the Company issued 450,000 shares of its common stock
and warrants to acquire an additional 325,000 shares at an exercise price of
$26.75 per share, as partial consideration for the acquisition of 17 drilling
rigs and related equipment from Cleere Drilling Company. The common stock was
recorded at $21.55 per share and the warrants were valued at $8.00 per
underlying share of common stock using the Black-Scholes option valuation model
(see Note 2).

     On May 8, 2001, pursuant to the merger between Patterson and UTI, the
Company's stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's charter increasing
the number of authorized shares of the Company's common stock to 200 million.

     On May 7, 2001, warrants to purchase 121,250 shares of UTI's common stock
were exercised. The exercise price ranged from $13.25 to $17.50. The $1.8
million in proceeds resulting from the exercise was used as partial payment of
notes payable owed to the same parties.

     During January 2001, the Company issued 810,070 shares of its common stock
as partial consideration for the acquisition of Jones Drilling Corporation and
certain assets owned by its related entities (see Note 2). The common stock was
valued at $26.8125 per share, its fair market value on the date of the
transaction.

     During September 2000, the Company issued 3,000,000 shares of its common
stock at a public price of $34.50 per share. An underwriting discount of $1.50
was paid for a net price of $33.00 per share. Net proceeds from the offering
totaled approximately $98.8 million.

     During June 2000, the Company issued 1,150,000 shares of its common stock
and three-year warrants to acquire an additional 127,000 shares at an exercise
price of $22.00 per share, as consideration for certain drilling equipment
acquired from High Valley Drilling, Inc. (see Note 2). The common stock was
recorded at $18 per share, its fair market value on the date of purchase and the
warrants were valued at $900,000 using the Black-Scholes option valuation model.

                                       F-18
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

9. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY -- (CONTINUED)

     During March 2000, the Company issued 53,000 shares of its common stock as
consideration for certain drilling equipment acquired from WEK Drilling Company,
Inc. The common stock was recorded at $29.0625 per share, its fair market value
on the date of purchase (see Note 2).

     During June 1999, the Company issued 25,776 shares of its common stock as
consideration for certain drilling equipment acquired from an unrelated entity.
The common stock was recorded at $8.0625 per share, its fair market value on the
date of purchase.

     On January 27, 1999, the Company issued 800,000 shares of its common stock
as consideration for the Company's acquisition of the drilling assets of Padre
Industries, Inc. The common stock was recorded at its guaranteed value of $5.00
per share, or an aggregate purchase price of $4.0 million. On February 1, 2000,
the Company exercised its option to buy back 300,000 shares of its common stock
previously issued in conjunction with this acquisition for $5.50 per share.

10. STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS

     Employee and Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plans.  The Company has
seven stock option plans of which three are active. The remaining four plans are
dormant and the Company does not intend to grant any further options under such
plans. At December 31, 2001, the Company's stock option plans were as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                 OPTIONS                         OPTIONS
                                                AUTHORIZED       OPTIONS        AVAILABLE
PLAN NAME                                       FOR GRANT      OUTSTANDING      FOR GRANT
- ---------                                       ----------    -------------   -------------
<S>                                             <C>           <C>             <C>
Amended and Restated Non-Employee Director
  Stock Option Plan of Patterson-UTI Energy,
  Inc. ("Non-Employee Director Plan")(1)......    600,000         165,000        360,000
Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. 2001 Long-Term
  Incentive Plan ("2001 Plan")(2).............  1,000,000         800,500        199,500
Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. Amended and
  Restated 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan
  ("1997 Plan")(1)(3).........................  3,800,000       3,256,301        132,501
Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. Non-Employee
  Directors' Stock Option Plan, as amended
  ("1995 Non-Employee Director Plan").........    120,000          32,000             --
1997 Stock Option Plan of DSI Industries, Inc.
  ("DSI Plan")(1).............................         --         113,226             --
Amended and Restated Patterson-UTI Energy,
  Inc. 1996 Employee Stock Option Plan ("1996
  Plan")(1)...................................         --       1,005,300             --
Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc., 1993 Incentive
  Stock Plan, as amended ("1993 Plan")........  2,800,000       1,199,965             --
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Plan was assumed by the Company as a part of the merger between Patterson
    and UTI.

(2) Plan is for the benefit of employees of the Company, other than officers and
    directors of the Company.

(3) Plan is for the benefit of employees of the Company, including officers and
    directors of the Company.

     The Company's active plans are the 1997 Plan, the 2001 Plan and the
Non-Employee Director Plan. A summary of each of these plans is set forth below.

                                       F-19
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10. STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS -- (CONTINUED)

1997 PLAN

     - Administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

     - All employees including officers and employee directors are eligible for
       awards.

     - Vesting schedule is set by the Compensation Committee, however, typically
       20% of the options vest after one year and the remaining 80% vest monthly
       over the next four years.

     - The Compensation committee sets the term of the option except that no
       Incentive Stock Option ("ISO") can have a term of longer than 10 years.
       Typically options granted under the plan have a term of 10 years.

     - The options granted under the plan, unless otherwise stated in the grant
       thereof, vest upon a change of control as defined in the plan. Options
       granted to non-executive employees typically do not vest upon a change of
       control.

     - All options granted under the plan are granted with an exercise price
       equal to or greater than the fair market value of the Company's common
       stock at the time the option is granted.

     - Although the plan allows for awards of tandem and independent stock
       appreciation rights, restricted stock and performance awards, no such
       awards have been granted.

2001 PLAN

     The terms and conditions of the 2001 Plan are identical to the 1997 Plan
except as follows:

     - Officers and directors of the Company are not eligible for grants of
       options under the 2001 Plan.

     - No ISO's may be awarded under the 2001 Plan.

     - Unless the grant states otherwise, options granted under the 2001 Plan do
       not vest upon a change of control of the Company.

NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR PLAN

     - Administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

     - All options vest upon the first anniversary of the option grant.

     - Each director receives options to purchase 15,000 shares upon becoming a
       director of the Company and options to purchase 7,500 shares on December
       31 of each subsequent year in which the director serves as a director of
       the Company.

     - The exercise price of the options is the fair market value of the
       Company's common stock on the date of the grant.

     Of the four dormant plans administered by the Company, two of the plans
(the 1993 Plan and the 1995 Non-Employee Director Plan) were plans of the
Company prior to the merger of Patterson and UTI and two of the plans (the DSI
Plan and the 1996 Plan) were plans of UTI.

     1993 Plan.  Options granted under the 1993 Plan, typically had terms of 10
years and vested over five years in 20% increments beginning at the end of the
first year. These options vest in the event of a change of control as defined in
the plan. All options were granted with an exercise price equal to the fair
market value of the Company's common stock at the time of grant.

                                       F-20
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10. STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS -- (CONTINUED)

     1995 Non-Employee Director Plan.  All options granted under the 1995
Non-Employee Director Plan were vested as of November 6, 2001. 1995 Non-Employee
Director Plan options have five year terms. All options were granted with an
exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock at
the time of grant.

     DSI Plan.  The options granted under the DSI plan typically vested at a
rate of 33% per year with ten year terms. All options were granted with an
exercise price equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock at
the time of grant.

     1996 Plan.  The options granted under the 1996 plan vested over one, four
and five years as dictated by the Compensation Committee. These options had
terms of five and ten years as dictated by the Compensation Committee. All
options were granted with a strike price equal to the fair market value of the
Company's common stock at the time of grant.

     Additional Options.  In July 2001, the Compensation Committee granted to
each of two non-employee directors of the Company an option to purchase 12,000
shares of the Company's Common Stock. These options vested on November 6, 2001
and terminate four years later on November 5, 2005. The exercise price of each
of the options was $28.625 which was in excess of the fair market value of the
Company's common stock on the date of grant.

     A summary of the status of the Company's stock options issued under its
various incentive plans as of December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 and the changes
during each of the years then ended are presented below (in thousands, except
weighted average exercise price):

<Table>
                                          2001                          2000                          1999
                               ---------------------------   ---------------------------   ---------------------------
                                NO. OF                        NO. OF                        NO. OF
                               SHARES OF     WEIGHTED        SHARES OF     WEIGHTED        SHARES OF     WEIGHTED
                               UNDERLYING     AVERAGE        UNDERLYING     AVERAGE        UNDERLYING     AVERAGE
                               OPTIONS      EXERCISE PRICE   OPTIONS      EXERCISE PRICE   OPTIONS      EXERCISE PRICE
                               ----------   --------------   ----------   --------------   ----------   --------------
<S>                            <C>          <C>              <C>          <C>              <C>          <C>
Outstanding at beginning of
  the year...................     5,488        $   7.57         6,497        $   5.72         5,334        $   5.38
  Granted....................     2,103           16.19           586           18.58         2,644            4.76
                                -------        --------       -------        --------       -------        --------
          Total granted......     7,591            9.96         7,083            6.78         7,978            5.18
  Exercised..................       805            5.26         1,563            3.93         1,249            1.77
  Surrendered................       190           14.39            32           11.42           232            8.35
                                -------        --------       -------        --------       -------        --------
Outstanding at end of year...     6,596        $  10.40         5,488        $   7.57         6,497        $   5.72
                                =======        ========       =======        ========       =======        ========
Exercisable at end of year...     4,110        $   7.52         2,672        $   6.89         3,019        $   5.52
                                =======        ========       =======        ========       =======        ========
</Table>

     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 2001:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                           OPTIONS OUTSTANDING                       OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                            -------------------------------------------------   ------------------------------
                                          WEIGHTED AVERAGE
                              NUMBER         REMAINING       WEIGHTED AVERAGE     NUMBER      WEIGHTED AVERAGE
RANGE OF EXERCISE PRICES    OUTSTANDING   CONTRACTED LIFE     EXERCISE PRICE    EXERCISABLE   EXERCISE PRICES
- ------------------------    -----------   ----------------   ----------------   -----------   ----------------
<S>                         <C>           <C>                <C>                <C>           <C>
$1.81 to $5.00............    3,023,371          4.26            $   4.59         2,801,904       $   4.57
$5.01 to $20.00...........    3,427,921          8.24            $  14.84         1,208,354       $  12.67
$20.01 to $32.875.........      145,000          5.07            $  26.51           100,000       $  27.95
                            -----------        ------            --------       -----------       --------
                              6,596,292          6.35            $  10.40         4,110,258       $   7.52
                            ===========        ======            ========       ===========       ========
</Table>

                                       F-21
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10. STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Public Relations Services Stock Options -- In June 1999, the Company issued
options covering a total of 50,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price
of $8.0625 per share to a consultant as partial compensation for public
relations services rendered to the Company. The options granted to the
consultant have an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the stock at
date of grant. The options were fully exercisable upon grant date. The Company
accounted for the option grant in accordance with SFAS No. 123, and as such, a
charge for stock compensation expense of $250,000, which represents the fair
value of the options on the date of grant, is included in general and
administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 1999. All such options
were exercised in 2000.

     Pro Forma Stock-Based Compensation Disclosure -- SFAS 123 requires that pro
forma information regarding net income and earnings per share be presented as if
the Company had accounted for its employee stock options under the fair value
method as defined in that statement. The fair value of each stock option granted
is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model
with the following weighted-average assumptions for grants in 1995, 1996, 1997,
1998, 1999, 2000 and 2001 respectively; dividend yield of 0.00%; risk-free
interest rates are different for each grant and range from 4.65% to 7.02%; the
expected term is 5 years; and a volatility of 38.68% for all 1995 and 1996
grants, 35.97% for all 1997 grants, 51.08% for all 1998 grants, 61.97% for all
1999 grants, 67.71% for all 2000 grants and 68.33% for all 2001 grants. The
effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in this pro forma disclosure are not indicative
of future amounts. SFAS No. 123 does not apply to awards prior to 1995.

     For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period. The Company's
pro forma information follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                          -----------------------------------------
                                                              2001           2000          1999
                                                          ------------   ------------   -----------
                                                          (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
<S>                                                       <C>            <C>            <C>
Pro forma net income (loss).............................   $  157,109     $   31,210     $ (17,691)
                                                           ==========     ==========     =========

Pro forma earnings (loss) per share:
Basic...................................................   $     2.06     $     0.44     $   (0.27)
                                                           ==========     ==========     =========
Diluted.................................................   $     1.98     $     0.42     $   (0.27)
                                                           ==========     ==========     =========

Weighted-average fair value of options granted per
  share.................................................   $     9.97     $    15.73     $    3.07
</Table>

A summary of Patterson-UTI's stock option activity and related information for
the years ended December 31 follows:

     Stock Purchase Warrants -- In December 2001, the Company issued 325,000
warrants exercisable at $26.75 per share as partial consideration for the
purchase of 17 drilling rigs and related equipment from Cleere Drilling Company
(see Note 2). The warrants were fully exercisable upon the date of issuance. If
not exercised, the warrants will expire on December 21, 2004.

     In June 2000, the Company issued 127,000 warrants exercisable at $22 per
share as partial consideration for the purchase of eight drilling rigs and
related equipment from High Valley Drilling, Inc. (see Note 2). The warrants
were fully exercisable upon date of issuance. If not exercised, the warrants
will expire on June 2, 2003.

                                       F-22
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10. STOCK OPTIONS AND WARRANTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Tabular Summary -- The following table summarizes information regarding the
Company's stock options and warrants granted under the provisions of the
aforementioned plans: as well as stock options and warrants issued pursuant to
certain transactions described in Notes 2 and 9:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                        WEIGHTED AVERAGE
                                                             SHARES      EXERCISE PRICE
                                                            ---------   ----------------
<S>                                                         <C>         <C>
GRANTED
  2001....................................................  2,428,500       $  17.60
  2000....................................................    713,000          19.19
  1999....................................................  2,643,754           4.76
EXERCISED
  2001....................................................    804,581       $   5.26
  2000....................................................  1,563,345           3.93
  1999....................................................  1,248,880           1.77
SURRENDERED
  2001....................................................    190,473       $  14.39
  2000....................................................     31,879          11.42
  1999....................................................    231,862           8.35
OUTSTANDING AT YEAR END
  2001....................................................  7,048,292       $  11.36
  2000....................................................  5,614,846           7.89
  1999....................................................  6,497,070           5.72
EXERCISABLE AT YEAR END
  2001....................................................  4,562,259       $   9.29
  2000....................................................  2,799,482           7.58
  1999....................................................  3,018,835           5.52
</Table>

11.  LEASES

     The Company incurred rent expense, consisting primarily of daily rental
charges for the use of drilling equipment of $5.9 million, $8.6 million and $5.6
million, for the years 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The Company's
obligations under non-cancelable operating lease agreements are not material to
the Company's operations.

                                       F-23
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

12. INCOME TAXES

     Components of the income tax provision applicable for federal and state
income taxes are as follows (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                      2001        2000        1999
                                                   ----------   ---------   ---------
<S>                                                <C>          <C>         <C>
Federal income tax expense (benefit):
  Current........................................  $   82,417   $   6,932   $    (264)
  Deferred.......................................      10,887      14,705      (4,827)
                                                   ----------   ---------   ---------
                                                       93,304      21,637      (5,091)
State income tax expense:
  Current........................................       4,294          (1)        398
  Deferred.......................................         661         772         (73)
                                                   ----------   ---------   ---------
                                                        4,955         771         325
Foreign income tax expense:
  Current........................................       1,062          --          --
  Deferred.......................................       3,012         470          --
                                                   ----------   ---------   ---------
                                                        4,074         470          --
Total:
  Current........................................      87,773       6,931         134
  Deferred.......................................      14,560      15,947      (4,900)
                                                   ----------   ---------   ---------
Total income tax expense (benefit)...............  $  102,333   $  22,878   $  (4,766)
                                                   ==========   =========   =========
</Table>

     The difference between the statutory federal income tax rate and the
effective income tax rate is summarized as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              2001    2000    1999
                                                              ----    ----    -----
<S>                                                           <C>     <C>     <C>
Statutory tax rate..........................................  35.0%   35.0%   (34.2)%
State income taxes..........................................   1.9     1.0      1.3
Foreign taxes...............................................    --     0.2       --
Permanent differences.......................................   1.3     1.4      3.9
Other, net..................................................   0.2      .5      0.1
                                                              ----    ----    -----
Effective tax rate..........................................  38.4%   38.1%   (28.9)%
                                                              ====    ====    =====
</Table>

     In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers
whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax
assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is
dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in
which those temporary differences become deductible. Management considers the
scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income,
and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. The Company expects the
deferred tax assets at December 31, 2001 to be realized as a result of the
reversal during the carryforward period of existing taxable temporary
differences giving rise to deferred tax liabilities and the generation of
taxable income in the carryforward period; therefore, no valuation allowance is
necessary.

                                       F-24
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

12. INCOME TAXES -- (CONTINUED)

     The tax effect of significant temporary differences representing deferred
tax assets and liabilities and changes therein were as follows (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                   DECEMBER 31,      NET       DECEMBER 31,      NET       DECEMBER 31,      NET       JANUARY 1,
                                       2001         CHANGE         2000         CHANGE         1999         CHANGE        1999
                                   ------------     ------     ------------     ------     ------------     ------     ----------
<S>                                <C>            <C>          <C>            <C>          <C>            <C>          <C>
Deferred tax assets:
 Net operating loss
   carryforwards.................  $        --    $   (5,850)   $    5,850    $   (5,878)   $   11,728    $   10,294   $    1,434
 Investment tax credit
   carryforwards.................           --          (469)          469            73           396          (163)         559
AMT credit carryforwards.........          602        (3,770)        4,372           543         3,829         3,511          318
Other............................        8,145         2,791         5,354         2,215         3,139           166        2,973
                                   ------------   ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   ----------
                                         8,747        (7,298)       16,045        (3,047)       19,092        13,808        5,284
Valuation allowance..............           --            --            --            --            --            --           --
                                   ------------   ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   ----------
 Deferred tax assets.............        8,747        (7,298)       16,045        (3,047)       19,092        13,808        5,284
Deferred tax liabilities:
 Property and equipment basis
   difference....................      (92,859)      (16,005)      (76,854)      (17,132)      (59,722)      (14,815)     (44,907)
                                   ------------   ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------   ----------
       Net deferred tax
         liability...............  $   (84,112)   $  (23,303)   $  (60,809)   $  (20,179)   $  (40,630)   $   (1,007)  $  (39,623)
                                   ============   ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========   ==========
</Table>

     Patterson-UTI's investment tax credit carryforward expired in 2000, the
expiration of which gave rise to a deduction of 50% of the credit in 2001. Net
operating losses were fully utilized in 2001 and the remaining alternative
minimum tax credit may be carried forward indefinitely. Significant other
deferred tax assets consist primarily of workers' compensation allowance of $4.5
million and bad debt allowance of $1.3 million at December 31, 2001.

13. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

     The Company maintains a 401(k) profit sharing plan for all eligible
employees. Company contributions are discretionary. The Company made no matching
contribution in 1999, but made matching contributions of $789,000 and $2.1
million for 2001 and 2000, respectively.

14. BUSINESS SEGMENTS

     The Company conducts its business through three distinct operating
activities: contract drilling of oil and natural gas wells, and provision of
drilling and completion fluids services and pressure pumping services to
operators in the oil and natural gas industry.

     Contract Drilling Services.  The Company markets its contract drilling
services to major and independent oil and natural gas producers and operators.
The Company owns 319 drilling rigs, of which 287 operated in 2001. Currently,
257 of the drilling rigs are based in Texas and New Mexico (144 in West Texas
and New Mexico, 53 in South Texas, 39 in East Texas and 21 in North-Central
Texas), 41 are based in Oklahoma, five in Utah and 16 in western Canada. Our
contract drilling services operations contributed operating income of $274.5
million in 2001.

     Drilling and Completion Fluids Services.  The Company provides contract
drilling and completion fluids services to oil and natural gas producers in the
Permian Basin of West Texas and Southeast New Mexico, South Texas, East Texas,
Oklahoma, the Gulf Coast regions of Texas and Louisiana, and the Gulf of Mexico.
Drilling and completion fluids are used by oil and natural gas operators during
the drilling process to control pressure when drilling oil and natural gas
wells. The drilling fluids operations were added by the Company during 1998 with
its acquisition of two companies with operations in Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma
and

                                       F-25
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

14. BUSINESS SEGMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Colorado. Our services were expanded to include completion fluids in October
2000 with the acquisition of the drilling and completion fluids division of
Ambar, Inc., which had operations in the coastal areas of Texas, Louisiana and
in the Gulf of Mexico. Our drilling and completion fluids services operations
contributed operating income of $3.8 million in 2001.

     Pressure Pumping Services.  The Company provides pressure pumping services
in the Appalachian Basin. Pressure pumping services consist primarily of well
stimulation and cementing for the completion of new wells and remedial work on
existing wells. Well stimulation involves processes inside a well designed to
enhance the flow of oil, natural gas or other desired substances from the well.
Cementing is the process of inserting material between the hole and the pipe to
center and stabilize the pipe in the hole. Our pressure pumping services
operations contributed operating income of $12.6 million in 2001.

     The following table summarizes selected financial information relating to
our business segments:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                     DECEMBER 31,
                                                         ------------------------------------
                                                            2001         2000         1999
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                    (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>
Revenues:
  Contract drilling....................................  $  839,931   $  512,998   $  266,212
  Drilling and completion fluids.......................      94,456       32,053       11,686
  Pressure pumping.....................................      39,600       21,465       20,721
  Other................................................      15,988       15,806        8,747
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Total revenues.........................................  $  989,975   $  582,322   $  307,366
                                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
Income (loss) from operations:
  Contract drilling....................................  $  274,514   $   68,427   $  (10,427)
  Drilling and completion fluids.......................       3,842         (250)      (1,279)
  Pressure pumping.....................................      12,649        3,302        3,654
  Merger costs.........................................      (5,943)          --           --
  Restructuring and related charges....................      (7,202)          --           --
  Other................................................     (10,688)      (2,894)      (1,398)
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                            267,172       68,585       (9,450)
  Interest income......................................       2,080        1,377        1,047
  Interest expense.....................................      (3,142)     (10,108)      (8,269)
  Other................................................         385          250          169
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Income (loss) before income taxes......................  $  266,495   $   60,104   $  (16,503)
                                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
</Table>

                                       F-26
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

14. BUSINESS SEGMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                     DECEMBER 31,
                                                         ------------------------------------
                                                            2001         2000         1999
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                                    (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>
Identifiable assets:
  Contract drilling....................................  $  681,700   $  571,498   $  423,834
  Drilling and completion fluids.......................      41,724       52,414       19,117
  Pressure pumping.....................................      29,473       16,114       16,399
  Corporate and other (a)..............................     116,745       99,872       37,365
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Total assets...........................................  $  869,642   $  739,898   $  496,715
                                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
Depreciation, depletion and amortization:
  Contract drilling....................................  $   72,797   $   54,274   $   46,907
  Drilling and completion fluids.......................       2,644        1,464        1,065
  Pressure pumping.....................................       1,895        1,564        1,391
  Corporate and other..................................       8,823        4,162        3,190
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Total depreciation, depletion and amortization.........  $   86,159   $   61,464   $   52,553
                                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
Capital expenditures:
  Contract drilling....................................  $  150,788   $  116,836   $   25,033
  Drilling and completion fluids.......................       4,937       10,166          195
  Pressure pumping.....................................       7,756        4,426        2,307
  Corporate and other..................................      13,276        5,341        5,281
                                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Total capital expenditures.............................  $  176,757   $  136,769   $   32,816
                                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
</Table>

- ---------------

(a) Corporate assets primarily include cash on hand managed by the parent
    corporation and certain deferred Federal income tax assets.

                                       F-27
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

15. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL RESULTS (UNAUDITED)

     Quarterly financial information for the years ended December 31, 2001 and
2000 is as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                        1ST QUARTER   2ND QUARTER   3RD QUARTER   4TH QUARTER     TOTAL
                        -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------   ----------
                                     (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
<S>                     <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
2001
  Operating
     revenues.........  $  238,586    $  287,564    $  289,104    $  174,721    $  989,975
  Operating income
     (loss)...........      59,160        79,249        98,872        29,891       267,172
  Net income (loss)...      36,611        48,466        60,382        18,703       164,162
  Earnings per share:
  Basic...............  $     0.49    $     0.63    $     0.79    $     0.24    $     2.15
  Diluted.............  $     0.45    $     0.61    $     0.77    $     0.24    $     2.07
2000
  Operating
     revenues.........  $  112,591    $  123,339    $  149,148    $  197,244    $  582,322
  Operating income
     (loss)...........       3,907         9,777        19,996        34,905        68,585
  Net income (loss)...       1,091         4,627        10,293        21,215        37,226
  Earnings per share:
  Basic...............  $     0.02    $     0.07    $     0.14    $     0.29    $     0.52
  Diluted.............  $     0.03    $     0.06    $     0.14    $     0.27    $     0.50
</Table>

16. CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

     Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk, consist primarily of demand deposits, temporary
cash investments and trade receivables.

     The Company believes that it places its demand deposits and temporary cash
investments with high credit quality financial institutions. At December 31,
2001 and 2000, the Company's demand deposits and temporary cash investments
consisted of the following (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                 2001         2000
                                                              ----------   ----------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Deposit in FDIC and SIPC-insured institutions under $100,000
  and cash on hand..........................................  $    5,416   $    1,653
Deposit in FDIC and SIPC-insured institutions over $100,000
  and cash on hand..........................................      39,057       69,376
                                                              ----------   ----------
                                                                  44,473       71,029
Less outstanding checks and other reconciling items.........     (10,889)     (11,674)
                                                              ----------   ----------
Cash and cash equivalents...................................  $   33,584   $   59,355
                                                              ==========   ==========
</Table>

     Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are
primarily focused on companies involved in the exploration and development of
oil and natural gas properties. The concentration is somewhat mitigated by the
diversification of customers for which the Company provides drilling services.
As is general industry practice, the Company generally does not require
customers to provide collateral. No significant losses from individual contracts
were experienced during the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. We
recognized bad debt expense for 2001, 2000 and 1999 of $2.0 million, $570,000
and $282,000, respectively.

     The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and
trade receivables approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of these
assets.

                                       F-28
<PAGE>
                  PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

17. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     Use of Assets -- In 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company leased a 1981 Beech
King-Air 90 airplane owned by an affiliate of the Company's Chief Executive
Officer and our President/Chief Operating Officer. Under the terms of the lease,
the Company paid a monthly rental of $9,200 and its proportionate share of the
costs of fuel, insurance, taxes and maintenance of the aircraft. The Company
paid approximately $212,283, $193,769 and $222,583 for the lease of the airplane
during 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     Sales of Oil -- An affiliate acted as the first purchaser of oil produced
from certain leases operated by the Company during 1999. Sales of oil to that
entity, both royalty and working interest were approximately $8.4 million. There
were no sales of oil to that entity in 2001 or 2000.

     Joint Operation of Oil and Natural Gas Properties -- The Company operates
certain oil and natural gas properties in which the Chief Executive Officer, the
President/Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other persons
or entities related to the Company purchased a joint interest ownership with the
Company and other industry partners. The Company made oil and natural gas
production payments (net of royalty) of $8.3 million, $13.4 million and $6.1
million from these properties in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, to the
aforementioned persons or entities. These persons or entities reimbursed the
Company for joint operating costs of $5.9 million, $8.0 million and $5.9 million
in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     Other -- In 2001, the Company paid approximately $387,000 to an entity
owned by a relative of the Company President/Chief Operating Officer for certain
equipment and metal fabrication services. One of our directors is a director and
an officer of a company from which we purchased drill pipe, materials and
supplies totalling approximately $22.0 million in 2001. This same director was
an officer of a customer through February 2001 from which we received
approximately $500,000 in revenues in 2001.

                                       F-29
<PAGE>

                           PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.

                 SCHEDULE II-VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            ADDITIONS(1)
                                                      ------------------------
                                                      CHARGED TO    ACQUIRED
                                          BEGINNING   COSTS AND      THROUGH                     ENDING
DESCRIPTION                                BALANCE     EXPENSES    ACQUISITION   DEDUCTIONS(2)   BALANCE
- -----------                               ---------   ----------   -----------   -------------   -------
                                                                  (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                       <C>         <C>          <C>           <C>             <C>
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001
Deducted from asset accounts:
  Allowance for doubtful accounts.......   $3,462       $2,045        $ --          $1,486       $4,021
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
Deducted from asset accounts:
  Allowance for doubtful accounts.......   $3,508       $  570        $800          $1,416       $3,462
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
Deducted from asset accounts:
  Allowance for doubtful accounts.......   $2,337       $  282        $942          $   53       $3,508
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Net of recoveries.

(2) Uncollectible accounts written off.

                                       S-1
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 18, 2002                      PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.

                                          By:     /s/ CLOYCE A. TALBOTT
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                     Cloyce A. Talbott
                                                  Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of Patterson-UTI
Energy, Inc. and in the capacities indicated as of March 18, 2002.

<Table>
<Caption>
                       SIGNATURE                                                TITLE
                       ---------                                                -----
<C>                                                             <S>



                   /s/ MARK S. SIEGEL                           Chairman of the Board
- --------------------------------------------------------
                     Mark S. Siegel




                 /s/ CLOYCE A. TALBOTT                          Chief Executive Officer and Director
- --------------------------------------------------------
                   Cloyce A. Talbott
             (Principal Executive Officer)




                 /s/ A. GLENN PATTERSON                         President, Chief Operating Officer and
- --------------------------------------------------------        Director
                   A. Glenn Patterson




                 /s/ JONATHAN D. NELSON                         Vice President -- Finance, Chief
- --------------------------------------------------------        Financial Officer, Secretary and
                   Jonathan D. Nelson                           Treasurer
             (Principal Accounting Officer)




                  /s/ KENNETH N. BERNS                          Director
- --------------------------------------------------------
                    Kenneth N. Berns




                   /s/ VAUGHN E. DRUM                           Director
- --------------------------------------------------------
                     Vaughn E. Drum




                                                                Director
- --------------------------------------------------------
                    Nadine C. Smith




                   /s/ CURTIS W. HUFF                           Director
- --------------------------------------------------------
                     Curtis W. Huff




                   /s/ ROBERT C. GIST                           Director
- --------------------------------------------------------
                     Robert C. Gist




               /s/ SPENCER D. ARMOUR, III                       Director
- --------------------------------------------------------
                 Spencer D. Armour, III




                  /s/ KENNETH R. PEAK                           Director
- --------------------------------------------------------
                    Kenneth R. Peak




                 /s/ STEPHEN J. DEGROAT                         Director
- --------------------------------------------------------
                   Stephen J. DeGroat
</Table>
<PAGE>

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

<Table>
<Caption>
        EXHIBIT
        NUMBER                                 DESCRIPTION
        -------                                -----------
        <S>            <C>
          2.1          Plan and Agreement of Merger dated October 14, 1993, between
                       Patterson Energy, Inc., a Texas corporation, and Patterson
                       Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with related
                       Certificates of Merger.(1)
          2.2          Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated April 22, 1996 among
                       Patterson Energy, Inc., Patterson Drilling Company and
                       Tucker Drilling Company, Inc.(2)
          2.2.1        Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated May 16,
                       1996 among Patterson Energy, Inc., Patterson Drilling
                       Company and Tucker Drilling Company, Inc.(3)
          2.3          Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 5, 2001
                       among Patterson Energy, Inc., Patterson Drilling Company LP,
                       LLLP and Jones Drilling Corporation.(4)
          2.4          Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated February 4, 2001, by and
                       between UTI Energy Corp. and Patterson Energy, Inc.(5)
          2.5          Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2001
                       among Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc., Patterson-UTI Drilling
                       Company LP, LLLP and Cleere Drilling Company.
          3.1          Restated Certificate of Incorporation.(6)
          3.1.1        Certificate of Correction of Restated Certificate of
                       Incorporation.
          3.2          Amended and Restated Bylaws.
          3.3          Rights Agreement dated January 2, 1997, between Patterson
                       Energy, Inc. and Continental Stock Transfer & Trust
                       Company.(7)
          3.3.1        Amendment to Rights Agreement dated as of October 23,
                       2001.(15)
          4.1          Excerpt from Restated Certificate of Incorporation of
                       Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. regarding authorized Common Stock
                       and Preferred Stock.(14)
          4.2          Certificate of Designation.(16)
          4.2.1        Amendment to Certificate of Designation.
          4.3          Registration Rights Agreement with Bear, Stearns and Co.
                       Inc., dated March 25, 1994, as assigned to REMY Capital
                       Partners III, L.P.
         10.1          Loan and Security Agreement, dated November 22, 1999.(14)
         10.1.1        First Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated May 2,
                       2000.(14)
         10.1.2        Second Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated May
                       18, 2000.(14)
         10.1.3        Third Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated
                       October 18, 2000.(14)
         10.1.4        Fourth Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated May
                       8, 2001.(14)
         10.1.5        Fifth Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, dated June
                       29, 2001.(14)
         10.1.6        Revolving Loan Promissory Note, dated June 29, 2001.(14)
         10.1.7        Guaranty Agreement, dated June 29, 2001.(14)
         10.1.8        Pledge Agreement, dated June 29, 2001.(14)
         10.2          Aircraft Lease, dated December 20, 2000, (effective January
                       1, 2001) between Talbott Aviation, Inc. and Patterson
                       Energy, Inc.(8)
         10.3          Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan, as
                       amended.(9)
         10.4          Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. Non-Employee Directors' Stock
                       Option Plan, as amended.(10)
         10.5          Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. Amended and Restated 1997
                       Long-Term Incentive Plan.(11)
</Table>
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
        EXHIBIT
        NUMBER                                 DESCRIPTION
        -------                                -----------
        <S>            <C>
         10.6          Amended and Restated Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan
                       of Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc.(12)
         10.7          Amended and Restated Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. 1996
                       Employee Stock Option Plan.(12)
         10.8          1997 Stock Option Plan of DSI Industries, Inc.(11)
         10.9          Stock Option Agreement dated July 20, 2001 between
                       Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. and Kenneth R. Peak (a
                       non-employee director of Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc.).
         10.10         Stock Option Agreement dated July 20, 2001 between
                       Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. and Stephen J. DeGroat (a
                       non-employee director of Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc.).
         10.11         Model Form Operating Agreement.(13)
         10.12         Form of Drilling Bid Proposal and Footage Drilling
                       Contract.(13)
         10.13         Form of Turnkey Drilling Agreement.(13)
         21.1          Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
         23.1          Consent of Independent Accountants -- PricewaterhouseCoopers
                       LLP.
         23.2          Consent of Independent Auditors -- Ernst & Young LLP.
</Table>

- ---------------

 (1) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 27, "Exhibits" to Amendment No. 2
     to Registration Statement on Form SB-2 (File No. 33-68058-FW) filed on
     October 28, 1993.

 (2) Incorporated by reference to Item 7, "Financial Statements and Exhibits" to
     Form 8-K dated April 22, 1996 and filed on April 30, 1996.

 (3) Incorporated by reference to Item 7, "Financial Statements and Exhibits" to
     Form 8-K dated May 16, 1996 and filed on May 22, 1996.

 (4) Incorporated by reference to Item 16, "Exhibits" to Registration Statement
     on Form S-3 filed on January 8, 2001.

 (5) Incorporated herein by reference to Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus filed
     on March 14, 2001.

 (6) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 7, "Financial Statements and
     Exhibits" to Form 8-K dated and filed on May 8, 2001.

 (7) Incorporated by reference to Item 2, "Exhibits" to Registration Statement
     on For 8-A filed on January 14, 1997.

 (8) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 14, "Exhibits, Financial Statement
     Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K" to Form 10-K dated December 31, 2000.

 (9) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 8, "Exhibits" to Registration
     Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-47917) filed on March 13, 1998.

(10) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 8, "Exhibits" to Registration
     Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 33-39471) filed on November 4, 1997.

(11) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 8, "Exhibits" to Post-Effective
     Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (file No. 333-60470)
     filed on July 25, 2001.

(12) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 8, "Exhibits" to Post-Effective
     Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 (file No. 333-60466)
     filed on July 25, 2001.

(13) Incorporated by reference to Item 27, "Exhibits" to Registration Statement
     on Form SB-2 (File No. 33-68058-FW) filed on August 30, 1993.

(14) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 6, "Exhibits and Reports on Form
     8-K" to Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2001, filed on
     August 1, 2001.

(15) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 6, "Exhibits and Reports on Form
     8-K" to Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2001, filed
     on October 31, 2001.

(16) Incorporated herein by reference to Item 2, "Exhibits" to Registration
     Statement on Form 8-A (File No. 000-22664) filed on January 14, 1997.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2.5
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>d94131ex2-5.txt
<DESCRIPTION>ASSET PURCHASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                     EXHIBIT 2.5


                            ASSET PURCHASE AGREEMENT

                       THIS AGREEMENT CONTAINS PROVISIONS
                         RELATING TO INDEMNITY, RELEASE
                       OF LIABILITY AND ALLOCATION OF RISK


         This Asset Purchase Agreement (the "Agreement") entered into as of the
21st day of December, 2001, by and among Cleere Drilling Company, a Texas
corporation, previously known as Cleere Rig 19, Inc.(the "Seller"), Kirk A.
Cleere ("Kirk"), Crates Thompson Capital, Inc., a Texas corporation, CT Capital
Partners, L.P., a Texas limited partnership and CT Drilling Partners, L. P., a
Texas limited partnership, as direct or indirect shareholders of the Seller
(collectively referred to herein as the "Shareholders"), Patterson-UTI Drilling
Company LP, LLLP, a Delaware limited liability limited partnership (the
"Purchaser"), and Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation
("Patterson"), for the sale by Seller and the purchase by Purchaser of the
Assets described below.

         WHEREAS, Purchaser is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Patterson;

         WHEREAS, the Seller is the owner of 17 land drilling rigs, and
machinery, equipment, trucks, spare parts, inventory and supplies, and related
appurtenances, (including spare components, parts, drill pipe, drill collars,
racking and other supporting stores and inventory), as more fully described in
the attached Exhibit A hereto (hereinafter collectively referred to herein as
the "Tangible Assets", but excluding the Tangible Assets listed on Schedule
10(m)), Seller is a party to the land drilling contracts listed on Exhibit B
hereto (the "Contracts"), a party to the Rig 19 Agreement dated April 9, 2001,
with EEX E&P Company, L. P., (the "Rig 19 Agreement") and owns the name Cleere
Drilling Company (the Contracts together with the Drilling Contract as defined
in such agreement, the Rig 19 Agreement, the Tangible Assets and the exclusive
right to use the name Cleere Drilling Company, in all cases, and the exclusive
right to all variations and derivatives thereof, in connection with any and all
business activities, related to the oil, gas or other hydrocarbon exploration,
production or processing business, including oil field services and equipment,
are hereinafter referred to as the "Assets"); and

         WHEREAS, Seller desires to sell to Purchaser and Purchaser desires to
purchase from Seller the Assets under terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the above and other good and
valuable consideration, the parties mutually agree as follows:

1. Purchase Price.

         a. $13,500,000 payable in cash (the "Cash Purchase Price").

         b. 450,000 shares (the "Shares") of Common Stock, $.01 par value (the
"Common Stock") of Patterson.

         c. Warrants to purchase up to an aggregate 325,000 shares of Common
Stock (the "Warrant Shares") at the initial exercise price of $ 26.75 (the
"Warrants") terminating three years after closing and having the terms and
conditions set forth in Attachment A hereto.


<PAGE>


         d. Assumption of the obligations under the promissory note (the "EEX
Note") issued pursuant to the Rig 19 Agreement as more fully described on
Schedule 1(d) and the obligations of Seller under the Contracts and the Rig 19
Agreement relating to the operation or use of the Assets after the closing of
the sale contemplated hereby (collectively, the "Assumed Liabilities"). Except
with respect to the Assumed Liabilities, the Purchaser shall not assume, and
shall be fully indemnified by Seller and the Shareholders from, any loss, cost
or expenses incurred with respect to any liability or obligation, contingent or
otherwise, of the Seller.

2. Payment of Cash Purchase Price. Patterson shall cause Purchaser to pay, and
Purchaser shall pay, to Seller the Cash Purchase Price on the Closing Date by
wire transfer pursuant to written instructions provided to Purchaser by Seller
two business days prior to Closing. Purchaser and Seller agree to discuss the
allocation of the Purchase Price among the Assets prior to filing a federal tax
return reflecting such allocation and agree that if they can agree on an
allocation they will so indicate in their federal tax returns.

3. Delivery of the Shares. At the Closing, Patterson, on behalf of the
Purchaser, shall deliver to the Seller stock certificates evidencing in the
aggregate the Shares.

4. Delivery of Warrants. At the Closing, Patterson, on behalf of the Purchaser,
shall deliver to Seller a Warrant covering the number of Warrant Shares.

5. Closing Date. The closing (the "Closing") shall take place on December 21,
2001, or on such earlier or later date as may be mutually agreed upon by Seller
and Purchaser, such date for closing being hereinafter referred to as the
"Closing Date". In no event shall the Closing Date fall after January 31, 2002.

6. Delivery. Purchaser inspected the Tangible Assets during the period beginning
December 18, 2001 through December 20, 2001 and agrees they are acceptable in
their condition as inspected. Except as provided on Schedule 6, the Tangible
Assets shall be delivered by Seller to Purchaser at their locations when
inspected in substantially the same condition as when inspected by Purchaser.

7. No Warranty by Seller Regarding the Tangible Assets. EXCEPT AS PROVIDED IN
SECTIONS 6 AND 8 HEREOF, THE SALE OF THE TANGIBLE ASSETS IS AS IS, WHERE IS AND
WITH ALL FAULTS OR DEFECTS, LATENT, PATENT OR OTHERWISE AND NEITHER SELLER NOR
ANY SHAREHOLDER MAKES ANY GUARANTY, WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, BY OPERATION OF LAW OR OTHERWISE, AS TO THE QUALITY, SERVICEABILITY,
MERCHANTABILITY OR CONDITION OF THE TANGIBLE ASSETS, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO THEIR RELATED MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT, SPARE PARTS, DRILLING RIG AND RELATED
APPURTENANCES, OR THEIR FITNESS FOR ANY USE OR PURPOSE.

8. Assumption of Risk by Purchaser/Dayrates. Purchaser specifically assumes all
risk of death, injury, loss or damage to Purchaser or any other party arising
from or relating to the use, condition or operation of the Assets after the
Closing Date. Dayrates and other benefits earned on the Contracts prior to the
Closing Date (whether or not invoiced or billed as of the Closing Date) shall be
for the benefit of Seller and dayrates and other benefits earned on the
Contracts on or after the Closing Date shall be for the benefit of the
Purchaser; any payments or other consideration received on the Contracts by
Seller or Purchaser shall be divided between Seller and Purchaser according to
these principles.

9. Risk of Loss. Title, possession and risk of loss with respect to the Assets
shall pass to Purchaser at 12:01 a.m. on the Closing Date.


                                      -2-
<PAGE>


10. Representations and Warranties of Seller and the Shareholders. Seller and
the Shareholders, jointly and severally, represent and warrant as of the date
hereof and the Closing Date that:

         a. Seller is a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws
of the State of Texas. Seller and each Shareholder have all necessary power and
authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and perform the transaction
contemplated herein. The execution and delivery of this Agreement, and the due
consummation of the transactions hereby authorized, have been duly and validly
authorized by Seller and each Shareholder, including any required approval of
the shareholders of Seller, and this Agreement represents a valid and binding
agreement of Seller and each Shareholder.

         b. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by Seller and each
Shareholder and the consummation of the transactions hereby contemplated will
not (i) violate any provision of any of the Seller's or the Shareholders'
Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, Limited Partnership Agreement or similar
organizational documents, or any judgment, decree, or order to which any of them
is a party, (ii) result in the breach of, or constitute a default under, any
agreement or contract to which Seller or any of the Shareholders is a party or
by which any of them or any of the Assets are bound, or (iii) constitute a
violation of any statute or law or any regulation or rule of any court or
governmental authority.

         c. Except as set forth on Schedule 10(c), no consent of or filing with
U.S. governmental authorities, and no consent of or filing with any other
governmental authority or any other person or entity, is required in connection
with the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by any of the
Seller or the Shareholders.

         d. Certain of the Assets are currently under contract to third parties
as specified in the Contracts and are being transferred by the Seller to
Purchaser subject to such Contracts.

         e. Except as referred to in Sections 10(d) above or as set forth on
Schedule 10(e), Seller shall transfer to Purchaser good and marketable title to
the Assets free and clear of any liens, encumbrances, claim, security interest
or infringement of any nature whatsoever (other than customary inchoate liens
for taxes not yet due and payable).

         f. Seller has full corporate power and authority to carry on its
business, to own, lease and operate its properties and to execute and deliver
this Agreement and all documents and instruments referred to herein and
contemplated hereby and to carry out the terms hereof.

         g. Seller has filed all tax returns (whether federal, state, local,
income, franchise, sales, property or other tax) required to be filed on or
before the Closing Date and paid all applicable taxes (whether federal, state,
local, income, franchise, sales, property or other tax) due on or before the
Closing Date relating in any way to the Assets.

         h. Except as set forth on Schedule 10(h), there is no claim,
litigation, proceeding or governmental investigation pending or, to the
knowledge of either Seller or the Shareholders, threatened against or relating
to or in any way affecting the Assets or the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.

         i. Each Seller is in compliance in all material respects with all
applicable laws and regulations relating to its ownership or operation of the
Assets, and has not received notice of any violation (that is uncured or
outstanding) of any law or regulation relating to its operation of the Assets.


                                      -3-
<PAGE>


         j. There have been no modifications or changes to the Assets since
Purchaser's inspection, other than as a result of routine maintenance.

         k. Seller has provided to Purchaser true, correct and complete copies
of the Contracts and the Rig 19 Agreement. Seller is not in default under any of
the Contracts or the Rig 19 Agreement, and to the Seller's and the Shareholders'
knowledge, no other party to any of the Contracts or the Rig 19 Agreement is in
default under any of the Contracts or the Rig 19 Agreement. The Contracts and
the Rig 19 Agreement are the only contracts, agreements or understandings,
whether written or oral, that apply to the ownership or operation of the Assets.
Schedule 1(d) sets forth as of the date of this Agreement the amount of
principal and interest owing under the promissory note issued pursuant to the
Rig 19 Agreement. EEX E&P Company, L.P. ("EEX") has consented to the assignment
by the Seller of the Rig 19 Agreement to Purchaser and to the assignment of
Drilling Contract as defined in the Rig 19 Agreement to the Purchaser.

         l. Seller is now solvent, and Seller will not be rendered insolvent by
the occurrence of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. In addition,
immediately after giving effect to the consummation of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, (i) Seller will be able to pay its debts as they
become due, (ii) the property of Seller does not and will not constitute
unreasonably small capital, and Seller will not have unreasonably small capital,
and Seller will have sufficient capital with which to conduct its business
and/or to wind up its affairs and dissolve, and (iii) there will be no pending
or threatened litigation or final judgments against Seller in any action for
money damages that is reasonably anticipated to be rendered at a time when, or
in amounts such that Seller will be unable to satisfy any such judgments
promptly in accordance with their terms (taking into account the maximum
probable amount of such judgments in any such actions and the earliest
reasonable time at which such judgments might be rendered). The cash available
to Seller, after taking into account all other anticipated uses of the cash of
Seller, will be sufficient to pay all such judgments promptly in accordance with
their terms to the extent such judgments, if any, are in excess of available
insurance proceeds. As used in this Section, "insolvent" means, for any person
or entity, that the sum of the present fair saleable value of its assets does
not and/or will not exceed its debts and other probable liabilities, and the
term "debts" includes any legal liability, whether matured or unmatured,
liquidated or unliquidated, absolute, fixed or contingent, disputed or
undisputed or secured or unsecured.

         m. Except as set forth on Schedule 10(m), (i) the Assets constitute the
entire operating assets used by the Seller in connection with each of the
drilling rigs being sold and Seller maintains separately for each rig accounting
records of income and expenses for the operation of each rig, (ii) the Assets
constitute the entire operating assets used by the Seller in connection with its
contract drilling service business, and (iii) the Seller owns no other assets
other than the Assets, cash, accounts receivable and prepaid items and interests
in real property. Except as set forth on Schedule 10(m), neither Kirk, nor any
of his family members nor any of his affiliates, has any assets or interest in
any assets used in the land drilling rig business other than the Assets and
interest in real property.

         n. Seller is the successor in interest to all of the assets and
operations of Cleere Operating Company, formerly a Texas Corporation, Cleere
Drilling Company, formerly a Texas Corporation and Cleere Rig 19, Inc., a Texas
Corporation by reason of the merger of Cleere Operating Company and Cleere
Drilling Company into Seller on December 21, 2001. All of the assets of KAC
Equipment Leasing, Inc. shown on Schedule 10(n) were transferred to Cleere
Drilling Company prior to Cleere Drilling Company's merger into Seller. Except
for the San Angelo yard, the assets listed on Schedule 10(n) represent all of
the land drilling business assets of KAC Equipment Leasing, Inc.

11. Representations and Warranties of Purchaser. Purchaser and Patterson,
jointly and severally, represent and warrant as of the date hereof and the
Closing Date that:


                                      -4-
<PAGE>


         a. Purchaser is a limited liability limited partnership duly organized
and validly existing under the laws of the State of Delaware. Patterson is a
corporation duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Delaware. The execution and delivery of this Agreement, and the due consummation
of the transactions hereby authorized, have been duly and validly authorized by
the Purchaser and by Patterson, and this Agreement represents a valid and
binding agreement of Purchaser and Patterson.

         b. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of
the transactions hereby contemplated by Purchaser or Patterson will not (i)
violate any provision of Purchaser's Certificate of Limited Liability Limited
Partnership or Limited Liability Limited Partnership Agreement or Patterson's
Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, or any judgment, decree, or order to
which Purchaser or Patterson is a party, (ii) result in the breach of, or
constitute a default under, any agreement or contract to which Purchaser or
Patterson is a party or by which Purchaser or Patterson is bound, or (iii)
constitute a violation of any statute or law or any regulation or rule of any
court or governmental authority.

         c. Except for advance notice to Patterson's lenders under Patterson's
credit facility, no consent of or filing with U.S. governmental authorities, and
no consent of or filing with any other governmental authority or any other
person or entity, is required in connection with the execution, delivery and
performance of this Agreement by Purchaser or Patterson.

         d. The Shares when issued pursuant to this Agreement and the Warrant
Shares when issued pursuant to the Warrant will be validly issued, fully paid
and nonassessable and the Warrant, when executed and delivered pursuant to this
Agreement, will be a valid and legally binding agreement of Patterson and
Patterson will have reserved for issuance the shares of Common Stock issuable
upon exercise of the Warrants.

         e. Patterson has made available to the Seller and the Shareholders its
annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2001, June 30, 2001 and
September 30, 2001, its current reports on Form 8-K dated July 23, 2001, May 8,
2001, April 23, 2001, March 27, 2001, February 16, 2001 and February 6, 2001,
and its proxy statement/prospectus with respect to its Special Meeting of
Stockholders held on May 8, 2001 (such documents collectively referred to herein
as the "SEC Documents"). As of their respective dates, the SEC Documents
complied in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and
regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder applicable to such SEC
Documents, and none of the SEC Documents contained any untrue statement of a
material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein
or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. As of the respective
date of filing with the Commission, the consolidated financial statements of
Patterson included in the SEC Documents complied as to form in all material
respects with applicable accounting requirements and the published rules and
regulations of the Commission with respect thereto, were prepared in accordance
with GAAP applied on a consistent basis during the periods involved (except as
may be indicated in the notes thereto) and fairly presented the consolidated
financial position of Patterson and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the
dates of such financial statements and the consolidated results of their
operations and cash flows for the periods then ended. Since September 30, 2001,
other than a discussed in the SEC Documents or publicly announced by Patterson,
there has been no material adverse change in the business of Patterson and its
subsidiaries, taken as a whole.


                                      -5-
<PAGE>


12. Accredited Investor; Investment Purpose.

         a. Seller and each Shareholder recognizes and understands that the
Shares and the Warrants and the Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the
Warrants will not be registered under the Securities Act, or under the
securities laws of any state (the "Securities Laws"). The Shares, the Warrants,
and the Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants (collectively, the
"Securities") are not being so registered in reliance upon exemptions from the
Securities Act and the Securities Laws that are predicated, in part, on the
representations, warranties and agreements of the Seller and the Shareholders
contained herein.

         b. Seller and each Shareholder represents and warrants that (i) Seller
or such Shareholder is an "accredited investor" within the meaning of Regulation
D promulgated by the Commission pursuant to the Securities Act and is not
relying on a financial advisor in connection with his, her or its participation
in the transactions contemplated hereby in connection with evaluating the merits
and risks of this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby and an
investment in the Securities and the suitability thereof as an investment
therefor, (ii) Seller or such Shareholder has such knowledge and experience in
financial, investment and business matters, such experience being based on
actual participation therein, that Seller or such Shareholder is capable of
evaluating the merits and risks of this Agreement, the transactions contemplated
hereby and an investment in the Securities and the suitability thereof as an
investment therefor, (iii) the Securities will be acquired for Seller's or such
Shareholder's own account solely for investment and not with a view toward
resale or redistribution in violation of the Securities Laws, (iv) Seller or
such Shareholder has reviewed Seller's or such Shareholder's financial condition
and commitments, and Seller or such Shareholder has adequate means to provide
for Seller's or such Shareholder's financial needs and possible contingencies,
has no present or existing or contemplated future need to dispose of all or any
portion of Seller's or such Shareholder's interest in the Securities to satisfy
any existing or contemplated undertaking, need or indebtedness, and has assets
or sources of income that, taken together, are more than sufficient so that
Seller or such Shareholder can bear the risk of the loss of his, her or its
entire investment in the Securities, (v) Seller or such Shareholder has no plan
or intention to sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of his, her or its interest
in the Securities except in compliance with applicable securities laws, (vi)
each Shareholder who is a natural person has his residences and domicile in the
State of Texas and (vii) in connection with the transactions contemplated
hereby, no assurances have been made concerning the future results of Patterson
or as to the value of the Securities. Seller and each Shareholder understands
that Seller or such Shareholder must bear the economic risks of Seller's or such
Shareholder's investment in the Securities for an indefinite period of time.
Seller and each Shareholder understands that, except as provided in Section 13
hereof, Patterson is under no obligation to file a registration statement or to
take any other action under the Securities Laws with respect to any Securities.

         c. Seller and each Shareholder has consulted with Seller's or such
Shareholder's own counsel in regard to the Securities Laws and is fully aware
(i) of the circumstances under which Seller or such Shareholder is required to
hold the Securities, (ii) of the limitations on the transfer or disposition of
the Securities, (iii) that the Securities must be held indefinitely unless the
transfer thereof is registered under the Securities Laws or an exemption from
registration is available and (iv) that no exemption from registration is likely
to become available for at least one year from the date of acquisition of the
Securities. Seller and each Shareholder has been advised by Seller's or such
Shareholder's counsel as to the provisions of Rule 144 as promulgated by the
Commission under the Securities Act and has been advised of the applicable
limitations thereof. Seller and each Shareholder acknowledge that Purchaser and
Patterson are relying upon the truth and accuracy of the representations and
warranties in this Section by Seller or such Shareholder in consummating the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement without registering the Securities
under the Securities Laws.


                                      -6-
<PAGE>


         d. Patterson has made available to Seller and each Shareholder the SEC
Documents and a summary description of the terms of the Patterson Common Stock.
Seller and each Shareholder has reviewed copies of the SEC Documents and such
summary description (all such written materials, including this Agreement and
the Exhibits, Annexes and Schedules hereto, are hereinafter referred to as the
"Disclosure Information") and no person has made any representations or
warranties of any kind or nature to induce Seller or such Shareholder to enter
into this Agreement except as set forth in the written Disclosure Information,
and Seller or such Shareholder is relying only upon the Disclosure Information
in determining whether to make an investment in the Securities. Patterson and
Purchaser have offered to make available to Seller and each Shareholder upon
request at any time all exhibits filed by Patterson with the Commission as part
of any of the reports filed therewith.

         e. Seller and each Shareholder has made an independent investigation of
the pertinent facts relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, has
reviewed carefully the terms of this Agreement and the information furnished to
Seller or such Shareholder (including the Disclosure Information) to the extent
he, she or it deems necessary to be fully informed with respect thereto and
understands the nature of an investment in the Securities.

         f. Seller and each Shareholder agrees that the instruments representing
any of the Securities will be imprinted with the following legend, the terms of
which are specifically agreed to:

            THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY HAVE BEEN ACQUIRED FOR INVESTMENT
            AND HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, OR
            THE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE, IN RELIANCE UPON EXEMPTIONS FROM
            REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS. WITHOUT SUCH REGISTRATION, SUCH SHARES
            [WARRANTS] MAY NOT BE SOLD, PLEDGED, HYPOTHECATED OR OTHERWISE
            TRANSFERRED, EXCEPT UPON DELIVERY TO THE COMPANY OF AN OPINION OF
            COUNSEL REASONABLY SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY THAT REGISTRATION IS
            NOT REQUIRED FOR SUCH SALE, PLEDGE, HYPOTHECATION OR TRANSFER OR THE
            SUBMISSION TO THE COMPANY OF SUCH OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY BE
            SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY TO THE EFFECT THAT SUCH SALE, PLEDGE,
            HYPOTHECATION OR TRANSFER SHALL NOT BE IN VIOLATION OF THE
            SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 OR APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS OR ANY
            RULE OR REGULATION PROMULGATED THEREUNDER. NOTWITHSTANDING THE
            FOREGOING, THE SHARES MAY BE PLEDGED TO SECURE A BONA FIDE FULL
            RECOURSE LOAN FROM A PERSON IN THE BUSINESS OF MAKING SUCH LOANS
            THAT ACCEPTS SUCH PLEDGE SUBJECT TO THE FOREGOING RESTRICTIONS ON
            TRANSFER.

13. Registration Rights. (a) Subject to Section 16, on one and only one occasion
no sooner than six months following the Closing Date (the "Demand Date"), the
Holders (as hereinafter defined) may request (a "Demand Request"), pursuant to
this Section 13, that Patterson register under the Securities Act all or part of
the Registerable Securities (as hereinafter defined) for sale on a continuous
basis from time to time in the open market through brokers or dealers, or
otherwise, by a Holder, a pledgee of a Holder and any counterparty to any
hedging arrangement or agreement entered into by a Holder, having a period of
distribution not to exceed 20 days, and Patterson, subject to the terms and
conditions hereof, shall be obligated to effect such registration pursuant to
the terms of this Agreement; provided, however, Patterson shall not be obligated
to prepare and file any registration statement pursuant to this Section 13, or
prepare or file any amendment or supplement thereto, and may suspend sales
thereunder, if at any time when Patterson reasonably believes that the filing
thereof at the time requested, or the offering of securities pursuant thereto,
would materially and adversely affect a pending or proposed public offering of


                                      -7-
<PAGE>


securities of Patterson, or an acquisition, merger, recapitalization,
consolidation, reorganization or similar transaction relating to Patterson or
negotiations, discussions or pending proposals with respect thereto, or require
premature disclosure of information not otherwise required to be disclosed to
the potential detriment of Patterson or require the preparation or disclosure of
financial information of Patterson or a third party not reasonably available to
Patterson; provided, however, that such period of sale or distribution shall
resume after any such suspension for a number of days necessary to keep such
registration statement effective for permitted sales thereunder for a term of 20
days. The filing of a registration statement, or any amendment supplement
thereto, by Patterson may not be deferred, and the sale and distribution of
shares may not be suspended, in each case pursuant to the foregoing provisions,
for more than 60 days after the abandonment or consummation (or the completion
of the distribution of securities in the case of a public offering) of any of
the proposals or transactions described herein or, in any event, for more than
120 days. In addition, notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary, Patterson shall be under no obligation to register any Registerable
Securities pursuant to this Section 13 unless a minimum of 100,000 Registerable
Securities (subject to proportionate adjustment upward or downward, as
applicable, in the event of any stock split or stock dividend) are requested to
be registered and the Holders requesting such registration have a good faith
intent at the time of such request to sell all Registerable Securities requested
to be registered. The Demand Request must be signed by the Holders of
Registerable Securities and must include with it an election to exercise all
Warrants then held by any Person exercising registration rights hereunder which
shall be subject only to the registration of the Warrant Shares subject to such
Warrants.

         (b) Certain Definitions Applicable to Section 13. When used in this
Section 13, the following terms shall mean as follows:

               i. "Holder" shall mean (A) the Seller, (B) either Shareholder,
(C) any direct or indirect partner of CT Drilling Partners, L.P. or CT Capital
Partners, L.P. to which Registerable Securities are distributed and (D) any
person that acquires Registerable Securities upon exercise of Warrants.

               ii. "Registerable Securities" shall mean (A) Warrant Shares
issuable upon exercise of a Warrant which has not been exercised at the time of
the Demand Request, and (B) any shares of Patterson Common Stock issued in
respect of the shares described in clause (A) or into which such shares
described in clause (A) shall have been changed or converted. As to any
particular Registerable Securities, once issued such Securities shall cease to
be Registerable Securities when (v) based on an opinion of counsel reasonably
acceptable to Patterson and the Holders' Representative, all such Securities are
immediately eligible for sale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, (w)
such Securities have been sold pursuant to Rule 144, (x) a registration
statement with respect to the sale of such Securities shall have become
effective under the Securities Act and such Securities shall have been disposed
of in accordance with such registration statement, (y) such Securities shall
have been otherwise transferred, new certificates for such Securities not
bearing a legend restricting further transfer shall have been delivered by
Patterson and subsequent disposition of such Securities shall not require
registration or qualification of such Securities under the Securities Act or any
state securities or blue sky law then in force or (z) such Securities shall have
ceased to be outstanding.

14. Registration Procedure. If and whenever Patterson is required by the
provisions of Section 13 to effect the registration of any Registerable
Securities under the Securities Act, Patterson will, subject to the other
provisions of Section 13; provided that such registration will include a "Plan
of Distribution" section covering sales in ordinary market transactions and
typical hedging transactions:

    a)   as expeditiously as reasonably practicable, prepare and file with the
         Commission the registration statement in which such Registerable
         Securities are to be included and seek to cause such registration
         statement to become and remain effective;


                                      -8-
<PAGE>


    b)   as expeditiously as reasonably practicable, prepare and file with the
         Commission such amendments and supplements to such registration
         statement and the prospectus used in connection therewith as may be
         necessary to keep such registration statement effective and to comply
         with the provisions of the Securities Act in accordance with the
         intended method of distribution set forth in such registration
         statement;

    c)   as expeditiously as reasonably practicable, furnish to Holders who have
         Registerable Securities covered by such registration statement such
         number of copies of prospectuses and preliminary documents as such
         Holder may reasonably request, in order to facilitate the public sale
         of such Registerable Securities; provided, however, that the obligation
         of Patterson to deliver copies of prospectuses or preliminary
         prospectuses to a Holder shall be subject to the receipt by Patterson
         of reasonable assurances from such Holder that such Holder will comply
         with the applicable provisions of the Securities Act and of such other
         securities laws as may be applicable in connection with any use by such
         Holder of any prospectuses or preliminary prospectuses;

    d)   as expeditiously as practicable, use its reasonable best efforts to
         register or qualify the Registerable Securities covered by such
         registration statement under such other securities laws or such United
         States jurisdictions as Holders who have Registerable Securities
         covered by such registration statement shall reasonably request
         (considering the nature and size of the offering) and do any and all
         other acts and things that may be necessary or desirable to enable such
         Holder to consummate the public sale or other disposition in such
         jurisdictions of such Registerable Securities; provided, however, that
         Patterson shall not be required to qualify to transact business as a
         foreign corporation in any jurisdiction in which it would otherwise not
         be required to be so qualified or to take any action that would subject
         it to general service of process in any jurisdiction in which it is not
         then so subject or subject it to franchise or other taxes in any state
         or jurisdiction in which it is not then so subject to taxes;

    e)   bear all Registration Expenses (as defined below) in connection with
         all registrations hereunder; provided, however, that all Selling
         Expenses (as defined below) and all fees and disbursements of counsel
         for any Holder in connection with each registration pursuant to Section
         13 shall be borne by such Holder. Expenses incurred by Patterson in
         complying with Section 13, including: (i) all registration and filing
         fees; (ii) all printing expenses; (iii) all fees and disbursements of
         counsel for Patterson; (iv) all blue sky fees and expenses; and (v) all
         fees and expenses of accountants for Patterson, are herein referred to
         as "Registration Expenses". All underwriting fees and discounts and
         brokerage and selling commissions relating to Registerable Securities
         to be registered for any Holder and fees and expenses of the counsel
         for such Holder and any other costs (other than Registration Expenses)
         applicable to the sales by such Holder in connection with any such
         registration are herein referred to as "Selling Expenses".

15. Securities Indemnification.

    a)   In the event of a registration of any Registerable Securities under the
         Securities Act pursuant to Section 13, Patterson will indemnify and
         hold harmless each Holder who has Registerable Securities covered by
         such registration statement and any other Person, if any, who controls
         such Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act,
         against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several,
         to which such Holder or such controlling Persons may become subject
         under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims,
         damages or liabilities or actions in respect thereof arise out of or
         are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any
         material fact contained, on the effective


                                      -9-
<PAGE>


         date thereof, in any registration statement under which such
         Registerable Securities were registered under the Securities Act, any
         preliminary prospectus distributed with the consent of Patterson or
         final prospectus contained in such effective registration statement, or
         any amendment thereof or supplement thereto, or arise out of or are
         based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material
         fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements
         therein not misleading, and will reimburse such Holder and each such
         controlling Person for any legal or any other expenses reasonably
         incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such
         loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided, however, that
         Patterson will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any
         such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an
         untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged
         omission made in such registration statement, such preliminary
         prospectus, such final prospectus or such amendment or supplement, in
         reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to
         Patterson by or on behalf of such Holder or a controlling Person of
         such Holder specifically for use in the preparation thereof.

    b)   In the event of any registration of any Registerable Securities under
         the Securities Act pursuant to Section 13, each Holder who has
         Registerable Securities covered by such registration statement will
         indemnify and hold harmless Patterson and each Person, if any, who
         controls Patterson within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities
         Act, each officer of Patterson who signs the registration statement,
         each director of Patterson and each underwriter and each Person who
         controls any underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the
         Securities Act, against any and all such losses, claims, damages,
         liabilities or actions that Patterson or such officer, director,
         underwriter or controlling Person may become subject under the
         Securities Act or otherwise, and will reimburse Patterson and each such
         officer, director, underwriter and controlling Person for any legal or
         any other expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with
         investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or
         action, if (a) such loss, claim, damage, liability or action in respect
         thereof arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged
         untrue statement of any material fact with respect to such Holder
         contained in any such registration statement, such preliminary
         prospectus or such final prospectus, or any amendment thereof or
         supplement thereto, or arises out of or is based upon the omission or
         alleged omission to state therein a material fact with respect to such
         Holder required to be stated therein or necessary to make the
         statements therein not misleading, and (b) any such untrue statement or
         omission of a material fact was made in reliance upon and in conformity
         with written information furnished to Patterson by or on behalf of such
         Holder specifically for use in connection with the preparation of such
         registration statement or prospectus or failure to deliver required
         prospects or otherwise comply with applicable laws regarding same.

    c)   Promptly after receipt by any indemnified Person of notice of any claim
         or commencement of any action in respect of which indemnity is to be
         sought against an indemnifying Person pursuant to Section 15, such
         indemnified Person shall notify the indemnifying Person in writing of
         such claim or of the commencement of such action, and, subject to
         provisions hereinafter stated, in case any such action shall be brought
         against an indemnified Person and such indemnifying Person shall have
         been notified of the same, such indemnifying Person shall be entitled
         to participate therein, and, to the extent it shall wish, to assume the
         defense thereof, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such
         indemnified Person, and after notice from the indemnifying Person to
         such indemnified Person of its election to assume the defense thereof,
         such indemnifying Person shall not be liable to such indemnified Person
         for the fees and expenses of legal counsel for such indemnified Person
         incurred thereafter in connection with the defense thereof; provided,
         however, if there exists or will exist a conflict

                                      -10-
<PAGE>
         of interest that would make it inappropriate in the reasonable
         judgement of the indemnified person for the same counsel to represent
         both the indemnified Person and such indemnifying Person, then such
         indemnified Person shall be entitled to retain it own counsel at the
         expense of such indemnifying Person; provided further, however, the
         indemnifying Person shall not be required to pay for more than one
         separate counsel for all of the indemnified Persons in addition to any
         local counsel.

16. Termination of Registration Rights. The rights of Holders as to registration
of the Registerable Securities provided herein, shall terminate as to the
Registerable Securities as follows:

    a)   registration rights shall terminate as to any of such Registerable
         Securities at such time as they may be sold without registration and
         without limitation as to volume pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under
         the Securities Act; and

    b)   the registration rights provided in this Agreement shall terminate as
         to all Registerable Securities, if Patterson, within 10 trading days of
         receipt of the Demand Request notifies the Holders of the Warrants to
         be exercised in connection with such Demand Request that Patterson will
         permit a net exercise of such Warrants and in fact allows such a net
         exercise at the written request of such Holder within 15 trading days
         of receipt of the Demand Request, whether or not such Holder makes such
         request. For purposes hereof, a "net exercise" means an exercise of a
         Warrant pursuant to which the holder directs Patterson to retain from
         the Warrant Shares to be issued upon exercise of the Warrant a number
         of Warrant Shares having a fair market value equal to the Warrant
         exercise price for all the Warrant Shares as to which such exercise is
         being requested such that the holder of the Warrant pays no cash upon
         exercise of the Warrant but receives a reduced number of Warrant
         Shares. For purposes of such net exercise, the fair market value of the
         Warrant Shares shall be the daily average of the closing price for the
         Common Stock on its principal trading exchange or market for the 10
         trading days beginning on the date the Demand Request is received by
         Patterson. For purposes hereof, a trading day shall be a day on which
         the exchange or market on which the Common Stock is traded is open for
         trading.

17. Survival. The warranties and representations of Seller and Shareholders on
the one hand and Purchaser and Patterson, on the other, contained in this
Agreement shall survive the Closing Date or termination of this Agreement
without limitation. All covenants and agreements contained herein shall survive
without limitation. Any claim for indemnification made during the survival
period shall be valid and the representations and warranties relating thereto
shall remain in effect for purposes of such indemnification notwithstanding that
such claim may not be resolved within the survival period. All representations,
warranties and covenants and agreements made by the parties shall not be
affected by any investigation heretofore or hereafter made by and on behalf of
any of them and shall not be deemed merged into any instruments or agreements
delivered in connection with this Agreement or otherwise in connection with the
transactions contemplated hereby.

18. Liability, Indemnity and Allocation of Risk Provisions. Seller and
Shareholders, on the one hand, and Purchaser, on the other hand, further agree
that:

    a. Seller's and Shareholders' Indemnity: SELLER AND SHAREHOLDERS, JOINTLY
AND SEVERALLY, AGREE TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR AND HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFY
PURCHASER AND PATTERSON AND THEIR AFFILIATES AND THEIR RESPECTIVE OFFICERS,
DIRECTORS, SHAREHOLDERS, PARTNERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS (COLLECTIVELY,
"PURCHASER INDEMNIFIED PARTIES") FROM ANY AND ALL CLAIMS, DEMANDS, CAUSES OF
ACTION, DAMAGES, JUDGMENTS AND AWARDS OF ANY KIND OR CHARACTER, INCLUDING FINES
AND PENALTIES (COLLECTIVELY, THE "CLAIMS"), ARISING FROM OR RELATING TO ANY
BREACH OR VIOLATION OF THE


                                      -11-
<PAGE>


REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES OR COVENANTS MADE BY SELLER OR SHAREHOLDERS
CONTAINED IN THIS AGREEMENT, OR IN ANY CERTIFICATE, AGREEMENT, DOCUMENT OR
INSTRUMENT DELIVERED BY SELLER PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE OWNERSHIP, USE
OR OPERATION OF THE ASSETS OR THE BUSINESS OF SELLER OR OBLIGATIONS OF SELLER TO
ITS EMPLOYEES ON OR BEFORE THE CLOSING DATE, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT ANY SUCH CLAIM
ARISES FROM OR IS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OR OPERATION OF THE ASSETS BY
PURCHASER AFTER THE CLOSING DATE OR IS AN ASSUMED LIABILITY.

    b. Purchaser's and Patterson Indemnity: PURCHASER AND PATTERSON JOINTLY AND
SEVERALLY AGREE TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR AND HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFY SELLER AND
ITS OFFICERS, DIRECTORS, SHAREHOLDERS, PARTNERS, EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS FROM ANY
AND ALL CLAIMS ARISING FROM OR RELATING TO ANY BREACH OR VIOLATION OF THE
REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES OR COVENANTS MADE BY PURCHASER OR PATTERSON
CONTAINED IN THIS AGREEMENT, OR IN ANY CERTIFICATE, AGREEMENT, DOCUMENT OR
INSTRUMENT DELIVERED BY PURCHASER OR PATTERSON PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE
USE OR OPERATION OF THE ASSETS AFTER THE CLOSING DATE, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT ANY
SUCH CLAIM ARISES FROM OR IS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP OR OPERATION OF THE ASSETS
BY SELLER ON OR PRIOR TO THE CLOSING DATE.

    c. Definition: THE PARTIES EXPRESSLY INTEND AND AGREE THAT THE PHRASE "BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR AND HOLD HARMLESS AND INDEMNIFY," AS UTILIZED IN THIS AGREEMENT,
SHALL MEAN THAT THE INDEMNIFYING PARTY SHALL RELEASE, INDEMNIFY, HOLD HARMLESS
AND DEFEND THE INDEMNIFIED PARTY FROM AND AGAINST ANY AND ALL CLAIMS (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PAYMENT OF REASONABLE ATTORNEY'S FEES, COSTS OF LITIGATION
AND COURT COSTS INCURRED BY THE INDEMNIFIED PARTY), WITHOUT LIMIT AND WITHOUT
REGARD TO THE CAUSE OR CAUSES THEREOF, INCLUDING PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS,
WHETHER SUCH CONDITIONS BE PATENT OR LATENT, BREACH OF REPRESENTATION OR
WARRANTY (EXPRESS OR IMPLIED), STRICT LIABILITY, TORT, BREACH OF CONTRACT, OR
THE NEGLIGENCE OF ANY PERSON OR PERSONS, INCLUDING THAT OF THE INDEMNIFIED
PARTY, WHETHER SUCH NEGLIGENCE BE SOLE, JOINT OR CONCURRENT, ACTIVE, PASSIVE OR
GROSS, OR ANY OTHER THEORY OF LEGAL LIABILITY.

    d. Survival: THE PARTIES EXPRESSLY INTEND AND AGREE THAT THE INDEMNITIES IN
THIS SECTION SHALL SURVIVE THE CLOSING OF THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY
WITHOUT LIMITATION.

    e. Extension of Indemnities: ANY INDEMNIFYING PARTY'S OBLIGATIONS CONTAINED
IN THIS AGREEMENT SHALL EXTEND TO THE INDEMNIFIED PARTY AND ALSO TO ANY OF ITS
DIVISIONS, SUBSIDIARIES, AFFILIATED AND/OR PARENT COMPANIES, AND THE OFFICERS,
DIRECTORS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, OWNERS, SHAREHOLDERS AND INSURERS OF EACH AND, IF
APPLICABLE, TO ANY ACTIONS AGAINST EITHER PARTY'S LEGAL AND BENEFICIAL OWNERS,
WHETHER IN REM OR IN PERSONAM.

    f. Other Limitations: SELLER AND SHAREHOLDERS SHALL BE OBLIGATED TO
INDEMNIFY ANY PURCHASER INDEMNIFIED PARTIES WITH RESPECT TO ALL CLAIMS FOR WHICH
PURCHASER INDEMNIFIED PARTIES ARE ENTITLED TO INDEMNIFICATION UNDER THIS SECTION
18 ONLY UP TO $26 MILLION IN THE AGGREGATE (THE "INDEMNIFICATION CAP").

    g. Exclusive Remedy: THE SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE LIABILITY AND RESPONSIBILITY OF
SELLER AND SHAREHOLDERS TO PURCHASER INDEMNIFIED PARTIES UNDER OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (INCLUDING FOR ANY
BREACH OF OR INACCURACY IN ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OR FOR ANY BREACH OF
ANY COVENANT OR OBLIGATION OR FOR ANY OTHER REASON), AND THE SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE
REMEDY OF PURCHASER INDEMNIFIED PARTIES WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE FOREGOING,
SHALL BE AS SET FORTH IN SECTION 15 AND THIS SECTION 18.

    h. EEX Indemnity: SELLER AND EACH SHAREHOLDER, JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY, WILL
INDEMNIFY AND HOLD HARMLESS PURCHASER AGAINST ANY OBLIGATION TO PAY PRINCIPAL OR
INTEREST ON THE EEX NOTE OTHERWISE THAN THROUGH THE PERFORMANCE OF DRILLING
SERVICES UNDER AND PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF THE


                                      -12-
<PAGE>


DRILLING CONTRACT (AS DEFINED IN THE RIG 19 AGREEMENT) AS THE DRILLING CONTRACT
AND RIG 19 AGREEMENT ARE IN EFFECT ON THE CLOSING DATE. SELLER AND THE
SHAREHOLDERS SHALL NOT BE OBLIGATED TO INDEMNIFY PURCHASER FOR ANY OBLIGATION TO
PAY THE EEX NOTE (a) THAT RESULTS SOLELY FROM ANY BREACH BY PURCHASER OR ITS
ASSIGNS OF THE DRILLING CONTRACT OR THE RIG 19 AGREEMENT OR (b) IF EITHER THE
DRILLING CONTRACT OR RIG 19 AGREEMENT IS AMENDED AFTER THE CLOSING DATE AND SUCH
AGREEMENTS AS AMENDED (i) REDUCE THE AGGREGATE AMOUNT CREDITED TO THE PAYMENT OF
THE EEX NOTE BELOW $4,000 PER DAY OR (ii) REDUCE THE MINIMUM NUMBER OF DAYS EEX
IS REQUIRED TO USE RIG 19 DURING THE TERM OF THE RIG 19 AGREEMENT; BUT IN THE
CASE OF CLAUSE (b), ONLY TO THE EXTENT SUCH REDUCTION IN AMOUNT OR IN THE
MINIMUM NUMBER OF DAYS REDUCES THE AMOUNT CREDITED OR WHICH WOULD BE CREDITED
TOWARD PAYMENT OF THE EEX NOTE PURSUANT TO THE RIG 19 AGREEMENT.

19. Non-Competition. In order to induce Purchaser to enter into this Agreement,
Seller and Shareholders, effective as of the Closing Date, for a period of five
years following the Closing Date, each agree that it will not, and will cause
each of its affiliates to not, without the consent of Purchaser, directly or
indirectly, provide contract land drilling services in the State of Texas and
all states contiguous thereto, (i) except for the account of Purchaser and its
affiliates, (ii) except for ownership in publicly traded companies of less than
5% of the outstanding common stock and (iii) except in the case of Crates
Thompson Capital, Inc., CT Capital Partners, L.P. and CT Drilling Partners, L.P.
and their affiliates, ownership of not more than 10% of the equity securities of
an entity that is not controlled (within the meaning of rule 405 under the
Securities Act) by such Person. Seller and each Shareholder acknowledge that a
remedy at law for any breach or attempted breach of this Section 19 will be
inadequate and further agree that any breach of this Section 19 will result in
irreparable harm to Purchaser. Accordingly, Purchaser shall, in addition to any
other remedy that may be available to any of them, be entitled to specific
performance and injunctive and other equitable relief in case of any such breach
or attempted breach. Seller and each Shareholder acknowledge that this covenant
not to compete is being provided as an inducement to Purchaser to enter into
this Agreement, and that this Section 19 contains reasonable limitations as to
time, geographical area and scope of activity to be restrained that do not
impose a greater restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill or other
business interest of Purchaser. Whenever possible, each provision of this
Section 19 shall be interpreted in such a manner as to be effective and valid
under applicable law but if any provision of this Section 19 shall be prohibited
by or invalid under applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective to the
extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remaining
provisions of this Section 19. If any provision of this Section 19 shall, for
any reason, be judged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unenforceable, such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the
remainder of this Section 19 but shall be confined in its operation to the
provision of this Section 19 directly involved in the controversy in which such
judgment shall have been rendered. In the event that the provisions of this
Section 19 should ever be deemed to exceed the time or geographic limitations
permitted by applicable laws, then such provision shall be reformed to the
maximum time or geographic limitations permitted by applicable law.

20. Information Exchange. Seller will furnish Purchaser (i) access at any time
prior to the Closing Date to the manuals and maintenance and similar records in
Seller's possession or control relating to the Assets and (ii) within thirty
(30) days after the Closing Date, originals or copies of such manuals and
maintenance and similar records relating to the Assets. Seller represents that
the manuals and maintenance and similar records in Seller's possession or
control relating to the Assets are complete.

21. Conditions to Closing. The obligation of each of the parties to perform this
Agreement is contingent upon the following:

    a. The representations, warranties, covenants and agreements of the other
party contained herein shall be true and correct in all material respects on the
Closing Date.


                                      -13-
<PAGE>


    b. The other party shall have duly performed in all material respects the
acts and undertakings to be performed by it hereunder on or prior to the Closing
Date.

    c. No statute, rule or regulation or order of any court or administrative
agency shall be in effect which prohibits such party from consummating the
transactions contemplated hereby and no suit, action, investigation or other
proceeding by any third party or governmental entity shall have been instituted
or threatened seeking to enjoin, restrain or prohibit such party from
consummating the transactions contemplated hereby or to obtain substantial
damages in respect thereof, or which is related to or arises out of this
Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and which, in the reasonable
judgment of such party would make it inadvisable to consummate such
transactions.

    d. The execution of a side agreement between Purchaser and Patterson and the
owners of the San Angelo and Pleasanton yards providing Purchaser and Patterson
the right to use the yards at no cost for sixty (60) days after the Closing
Date.

For purposes of this Section 21, "other party" means, (i) with respect to
Seller, Patterson and Purchaser, and (ii) with respect to Patterson and
Purchaser, Seller and the Shareholders.

22. Closing Procedures. On the Closing Date, the following shall be delivered
(at the offices of Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P. in Houston, Texas, or such other
location as mutually agreed to by Seller and Purchaser):

    a. Seller shall deliver to Purchaser:

         i. a duly executed Bill of Sale in a form which is consistent with this
Agreement and reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser, transferring to Purchaser
good and marketable title in and to the Assets, free and clear of any taxes,
liens and encumbrances (except the Contracts, the Rig 19 Agreement and liens
securing only Assumed Liabilities);

         ii. duly executed consents to the assignment of the Contracts and the
Rig 19 Agreement in a form reasonably satisfactory to Purchaser;

         iii. vehicle titles for each motor vehicle, if any, constituting a part
of the Tangible Assets and any other documents required to be executed by Seller
to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, which documents
shall be in a form reasonably acceptable to Purchaser, including without
limitation, (A) an opinion of Woerndle, Strain & Miller, L.L.P., counsel for the
Seller, relating to the due authorization, execution and delivery of this
Agreement and other transaction documents by, and enforceability of this
Agreement and other transaction documents and (B) customary officer's
certificates and Secretary's certificates; and

         iv. the release of all liens and encumbrances, if any, covering the
Assets except rights under the Contracts and the Rig 19 Agreement to the extent
they may constitute liens or encumbrances on the Tangible Assets or liens
securing only Assumed Liabilities.

    b. Purchaser and Patterson, as applicable, shall deliver to Seller:

         i. immediately negotiable funds (or a portion thereof by check as
directed by Seller) in the amount of the Cash Purchase Price, which shall be
transmitted by bank wire to the accounts specified by Seller;


                                      -14-
<PAGE>


         ii. the certificates evidencing the Shares;

         iii. the Warrants; and

         iv. any other documents required to be executed by Purchaser or
Patterson to consummate the transaction contemplated by this Agreement
(including without limitation, an Assumption Agreement), which documents shall
be in a form reasonably acceptable to Seller.

23. Conduct of Business and Preservation of Assets.

    a. Until the Closing, the parties hereto agree to cooperate with each other
to effect an orderly transition of the ongoing operation of the Assets and
Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts to preserve, maintain and
protect the Assets from and after the date of this Agreement and until the
Closing Date, without the prior express written consent of Purchaser, neither
will:

         i. make any material change in the conduct of the ongoing operation of
the Assets;

         ii. enter into any new contracts with respect to the Assets;

         iii. transfer, sell or otherwise convey or dispose of any Asset (other
than the utilization of inventory in the ordinary course of operating the Assets
and conducting the Seller's land drilling business consistent with past
practice);

         iv. enter into any contract that would obligate Patterson or Purchaser
in any respect after the Closing;

         v. waive any material rights under any Contract;

         vi. except as provided on Schedule 6, move any Tangible Asset from its
location at the time of the inspection referred to in Section 6 above;

         vii. mortgage, pledge or subject to any encumbrance or lien any of the
Assets;

         viii. modify in any manner the terms of any Assumed Liability.

         ix. authorize or agree in writing or otherwise take any of the
foregoing actions.

    b. From and after the date of this Agreement and until the Closing Date,
Seller will:

         i. use commercially reasonable efforts to preserve intact the current
business organizations of Seller, keep available the services of the current
officers, employees, and agents of Seller and maintain the relations and
goodwill with all suppliers, customers, licensors, licensees, landlords, trade
creditors, employees, agents, and others having business relationships with
Seller;

         ii. confer with Purchaser concerning Seller's operational matters of a
material nature;

         iii. maintain in full force and effect the same insurance Seller has
covering the Assets on the date of this Agreement. Seller has provided to
Purchaser a true and correct summary of the insurance in effect covering the
Assets.


                                      -15-
<PAGE>


         iv. maintain all the properties and assets of Seller's business and
operations of the Seller in the ordinary course consistent with past practice;

         v. maintain Seller's books and records in the usual, regular and
ordinary manner, on a basis consistent with prior years;

         vi. perform and comply with its obligations under all Contracts and in
the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice;

         vii. promptly advise Purchaser of any change in circumstances which
arises prior to the Closing, which would make any representation or warranty of
Seller set forth in this Agreement untrue if such state of facts had existed on
the date of execution of this Agreement;

24. Notice. Any notice pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall
be deemed to be given as of the date facsimiled or three days after the date
deposited in the U.S. mail (certified, return receipt requested), in each case
addressed as follows:

    a. If to Seller or Shareholders, to:

       Cleere Drilling Company
       14 E. Beauregard
       Post Office Box 5891
       San Angelo, Texas 76902

       Attention:   Kirk A. Cleere
       Telephone:   915-658-6533
       Facsimile:   915-657-0980

       CT Drilling Partners, L.P.
       201 Main Street, Suite 2001
       Fort Worth, Texas 76102

       Attention:   Kelly R. Thompson
       Telephone:   817-335-1700
       Facsimile:   817-335-1716

       With copies to:

       Woerndle, Strain & Miller, L.L.P.
       550 W. Texas, Suite 400
       Midland, Texas 79701

       Attention:   Mr. Wesley B. Strain
       Telephone:   915-682-8321
       Facsimile:   915-682-3159


                                      -16-
<PAGE>


       Kelly, Hart & Hallman, P.C.
       201 Main Street, Suite 2500
       Fort Worth, Texas 76102

       Attention:   Mr. F. Richard Bernasek
       Telephone:   817-878-3509
       Facsimile:   817-878-9280

    b. If to Purchaser, to:

       Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc.
       4510 Lamesa Highway
       P.O. Box Drawer 1416
       Snyder, Texas  79549

       Attention:   Chief Executive Officer
       Telephone:   (915) 574-6300
       Facsimile:   (915) 574-6307

       With copies to:

       Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P.
       1301 McKinney, Suite 5100
       Houston, Texas  77010-3095

       Attention:   Michael W. Conlon
       Telephone:   (713) 651-5151
       Facsimile:   (713) 651-5246

25. Limitation on Assignments. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, this
Agreement shall neither constitute nor require an assignment to Purchaser of any
Contract or other right if an attempted assignment of the same without the
consent of any party would constitute a breach thereof or a violation of any law
or any judgment, decree, order, writ, injunction, rule or regulation of any
governmental entity unless and until such consent shall have been obtained. In
the case of any such Contract that cannot be effectively transferred to
Purchaser without such consent (a "Consent Required Contract"), Seller agrees
that between the date hereof and the Closing Date it will use reasonable
commercial efforts to obtain or cause to be obtained the necessary consents to
the transfer of each Contract. Patterson and Purchaser agree to cooperate with
the Seller in obtaining such consents and to enter into such arrangement of
assumption as may be reasonably requested by the other contracting party under a
Contract. In the event that the Seller shall have failed prior to the Closing
Date to obtain consents to the transfer of any Contract and Patterson and
Purchaser shall have waived the conditions set forth in Section 22.a.ii, the
terms of this Section 25 shall govern the transfer of the benefits of each such
Contract. The Seller and Patterson and Purchaser shall use their reasonable
commercial efforts after the Closing Date to obtain any required consent to the
assignment to, and assumption by, Purchaser of each Contract that is not
transferred to Purchaser at the Closing (a "Nonassigned Contract"). With respect
to the Nonassigned Contracts that are not assignable by the terms thereof or
consents to the assignment thereof cannot be obtained as provided herein, such
Nonassigned Contracts shall be held by Seller in trust for Purchaser and shall
be performed by Purchaser in the name of Seller, at Purchaser's sole cost, risk
and expense, and all benefits and obligations derived thereunder shall be for
the account of Purchaser; provided, however, that where entitlement of Purchaser
to such Nonassigned Contracts hereunder is not recognized by any third party,
Seller shall, at the request of Purchaser, enforce in a reasonable manner, at
the cost of and for the account


                                      -17-
<PAGE>


of Purchaser, any and all rights of the Seller against such third party.
Purchaser and Patterson shall indemnify Seller in respect of Purchaser's
performance or failure to perform any obligation, duty or liability in
connection with such Nonassigned Contracts (in addition to any other
indemnification obligation, if any, of Patterson and Purchaser under Section 18
of this Agreement).

26. No Negotiation. After this Agreement is executed and until such time, if
any, as this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 29, Seller and the
Shareholders will not, nor will it permit any of their respective
representatives to, directly or indirectly, solicit, initiate or encourage any
inquiries, offers or proposals from, discuss or negotiate with or execute any
agreement with or provide any information to, any person or entity (other than
Purchaser) relating to any transaction involving the sale of the Assets
(collectively, "Sale Proposals"), or any other transaction the consummation of
which would or could reasonably be expected to impede, interfere with, prevent
or materially delay the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or that
could reasonably be expected to materially dilute the benefits to Patterson or
Purchaser of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. If any such
inquiries or Sale Proposals are received by, or any such information is
requested from, or any such negotiations or discussions are sought to be
initiated with Seller, Seller will promptly notify Purchaser of the nature,
terms and status of the foregoing and the identity of the inquiring party and
provide Purchaser with a copy of all written materials provided in connection
with such Sale Proposal. After this Agreement is executed and until such time,
if any, as this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 29, Seller will not
accept any Sale Proposal from any Person or entity other than Purchaser.

27. Public Statements and Confidentiality. Any public announcement or similar
publicity with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement will be issued, if at all, at such time and in such manner as
Patterson determines after consultation with Seller.

28. Financial Statement Cooperation. If requested, Seller agrees to cooperate
with Purchaser and to assist Purchaser's and Patterson's outside auditors in the
preparation of any audited financial statements relating to the Assets or Seller
that are required to be filed by Purchaser with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The cost and expenses associated with the
audit of such financial statements, and any out-of-pocket costs of Seller
incurred in assisting Purchaser and Patterson in preparing such audited
financial statements, will be paid by Purchaser and Patterson.

29. Termination. This Agreement may be terminated and the transactions
contemplated hereby may be abandoned at any time prior to the Closing:

    a. by mutual written consent of Patterson, Purchaser and Seller;

    b. by Patterson, Purchaser and Seller, if there shall be any statute, rule
or regulation that makes consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby
illegal or otherwise prohibited or a governmental entity shall have issued an
order, decree or ruling or taken any other action permanently restraining,
enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby, and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have
become final and nonappealable;

    c. by Patterson and Purchaser, if

         i. the Closing shall not have occurred by January 31, 2002 (provided
that the right to terminate this Agreement under this clause (i) shall not be
available to Patterson and Purchaser if Patterson's and Purchaser's failure to
fulfill any of their respective obligations under this Agreement or their
misrepresentation or breach of any warranty hereunder has been the sole cause
thereof);


                                      -18-
<PAGE>


         ii. there has been a material breach by Seller or the Shareholders of
any covenant, or a material inaccuracy of any representation or warranty, of
Seller or the Shareholders contained in this Agreement that has rendered the
satisfaction of any condition to the obligations of Patterson or Purchaser
impossible and such breach or inaccuracy has not been (A) cured by Seller within
ten Business Days after receipt of notice thereof from Patterson or Purchaser or
(B) waived by Patterson and Purchaser; or

         iii. there shall occur an event that results in or would reasonably be
expected to result in an adverse effect on the Assets exceeding $100,000
(without considering any insurance proceeds, or rights thereto); provided this
shall not apply if Seller corrects all damage or defects prior to the Closing
Date.

    d. by the Seller, if

         i. the Closing shall not have occurred by January 31, 2002 (provided
that the right to terminate this Agreement under this clause (i) shall not be
available to the Seller if due to the failure of Seller or the Shareholders to
fulfill any of its obligations under this Agreement or if due to Seller's or
Shareholders' misrepresentation or breach of any warranty hereunder has been the
sole cause thereof);

         ii. there has been a material breach by Patterson or Purchaser of any
covenant, or a material inaccuracy of any representation or warranty, of
Patterson or Purchaser contained in this Agreement that has rendered the
satisfaction of any condition to the obligations of the Seller impossible and
such breach or inaccuracy has not been (A) cured by Patterson or Purchaser
within ten Business Days after receipt of notice thereof from Seller or (B)
waived by the Seller;

30. Effect of Termination. In the event of the termination of this Agreement
pursuant to Section 29 by Patterson or Purchaser or by the Seller, written
notice thereof shall forthwith be given to the other parties specifying the
provision hereof pursuant to which such termination is made, and this Agreement
shall become void and have no effect, and there shall be no liability hereunder
on the part of Patterson or Purchaser or the Seller or any of their respective
directors, officers, employees, stockholders or representatives, except that the
agreements contained in this Section 30 and in Sections 17, 18, 27, 31.a, 32,
33, 34 and 36 shall survive the termination hereof. Nothing contained in this
Section 30 shall relieve any party from liability for damages actually incurred
(excluding consequential damages) for breach of any covenant, or for the
inaccuracy of any representation or warranty, contained herein.

31. Commissions, Fees, Taxes Release of Liens.

    a. Indemnity for Broker's Fees and Commissions: Purchaser on the one hand
and Seller and the Shareholders on the other each agrees to be responsible for
and hold harmless and indemnify the other against all Claims arising out of or
in connection with any broker's fees or commissions alleged to have been
incurred by such party. Seller and each Shareholder expressly acknowledges and
agrees that neither the Purchaser nor Patterson have any liability or obligation
to Raymond James & Associates, Inc. in connection with this Agreement or the
transactions contemplated hereby, and they will indemnify and hold Purchaser and
Patterson from any such claim. Seller agrees to pay all brokerage and other fees
owed to Raymond James & Associates at the time of closing.

    b. Taxes: Seller agrees to be responsible for and hold harmless and
indemnify against all Claims relating to the imposition of federal, state or
local ad valorem, income or franchise taxes applicable to the ownership or
operation of the Assets prior to the Closing Date or their transfer from Seller
to Purchaser.


                                      -19-
<PAGE>


32. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in
accordance with the laws of the State of Texas, without regard to conflict of
laws.

33. Convenience of Forum; Consent to Jurisdiction. The parties to this Agreement
hereby consent and subject themselves to the jurisdiction of the United States
District Court for the Northern District of Texas, and in the event such court
is not available to the parties, to the courts of the State of Texas located in
Dallas County, Texas, with respect to any matter arising under this Agreement.
Service of process, notices and demands of such courts may be made upon any
party to this Agreement by personal service at any place where it may be found
or giving notice to such party as provided in this Agreement.

34. Enforcement of the Agreement. The parties hereto agree that irreparable
damage would occur if any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed
in accordance with their specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is
accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to an injunction or
injunctions to prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically
the terms and provisions hereof, this being in addition to any other remedy to
which they are entitled at law or in equity.

35. Change of Name. Within five days after the Closing, Seller agrees to change
its name so that it no longer uses the word "Drilling".

36. Miscellaneous. This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the
parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and supersedes
all prior agreements between the parties with respect thereto. No person except
Seller or the Shareholders, or the Holders of Registerable Securities with
respect to Section 13 through 16 only, shall have any rights or remedies under
this Agreement. This Agreement may be executed by facsimile and simultaneously
in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all
of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

                      (SIGNATURES BEGIN ON FOLLOWING PAGE)


                                      -20-
<PAGE>


         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement in
multiple copies, each of which shall be deemed an original hereof.


                                        PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.

                                        By:
                                           -------------------------------------
                                                    --------------------
                                                    --------------------
                                                    --------------------

                                        PATTERSON-UTI DRILLING COMPANY LP, LLLP

                                        By:    PATTERSON-UTI (GP) LLC


                                        By:
                                           -------------------------------------
                                                    --------------------
                                                    --------------------
                                                    --------------------


                                        CLEERE DRILLING COMPANY

                                        By:
                                           -------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------


                                        CRATES THOMPSON CAPITAL, INC.

                                        By:
                                           -------------------------------------
                                        Name:
                                             -----------------------------------
                                        Title:
                                              ----------------------------------


                                      -21-
<PAGE>


                                        CT CAPITAL PARTNERS, L.P.

                                        By: CT Capital GenPar, L.P., its General
                                            Partner

                                            By: Crates Thompson Capital, Inc.,
                                                its General Partner

                                                By:
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                Name:
                                                      --------------------------
                                                Title:
                                                       -------------------------



                                        CT DRILLING PARTNER, L.P.

                                        By: CT Drilling GenPar, L.L.C., its
                                            General Partner

                                            By: CT Capital GenPar, L.P., Member

                                              By: Crates Thompson Capital, Inc.,
                                                  its General Partner

                                                  By:
                                                      --------------------------
                                                  Name:
                                                        ------------------------
                                                  Title:
                                                         -----------------------



                                        ----------------------------------------
                                                     Kirk A. Cleere


                                      -22-
<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT A

                                  ASSET LISTING




                                      -23-
<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT B

                                    CONTRACTS




                                      -24-
<PAGE>


                                  ATTACHMENT A

                                 FORM OF WARRANT





                                      -25-
<PAGE>


                                  SCHEDULE 1(d)

                             ASSUMED PROMISSORY NOTE



                                      -26-
<PAGE>



                                   SCHEDULE 6


                 TANGIBLE ASSETS MOVED SUBSEQUENT TO INSPECTION


Rig 1    Released 12/18/01 at Tema Oil & Gas Company, Crockett County Moving
         next to Ricks Exploration, Crockett County after 12/31/01

Rig 3    Released 12/18/01 at EEX, Lone Oak #4, Val Verde County Moving next
         EEX, Whitehead 78 #6 Val Verde County on 12/31/01

Rig 7    Released some time after 12/25/01 at Rio Tex, Hutto #1, Real County
         Waiting on location for Rio Tex, Bloodworth Lease, Edwards County

Rig 10   Moving 12/19/01 to Discovery Operating, Cochise #2, Winkler County
         Scheduled to spud 12/26/01

Rig 15   Released at Strand Energy, Chapman #1, Fort Bend County Waiting on
         weather to move to Hanson Production, Cinco Ranch 190-1, Ft. Bend
         County, scheduled 12/27/01

Rig 16   Released at Alpine Resources Vastar #4, Newton County Waiting on
         weather to move to Strand Energy Genmi #1, Walker County, scheduled
         12/29/01

Rig 18   Moved 12/17/01 to Tech Resources, Farmco #1, Frio County Spud on
         12/18/01

Rig 19   TD and logging, EEX Allen #1, Ft. Bend County Projected to move to EEX,
         Duval County, starting 12/27/01


                                      -27-
<PAGE>


                                 SCHEDULE 10(c)

                                    CONSENTS


                                      NONE




                                      -28-
<PAGE>


                                 SCHEDULE 10(e)

                                      LIENS


                                      NONE



                                      -29-
<PAGE>


                                 SCHEDULE 10(h)

                      OUTSTANDING LITIGATION, CLAIMS, ETC.


                                      NONE



                                      -30-
<PAGE>


                                 SCHEDULE 10(m)

                            ASSETS RETAINED BY SELLER


1. 1994 Ford Explorer s/n: 1FMDU32XORUA86784 (Shane Taiclet, Controller's
company car)

2. 2000 Ford Expedition s/n: FMRU15L3YLB25424 (Office manager's car)

3. Located at 14 E. Beauregard, San Angelo, Texas: All office equipment,
including, but not limited to, telephone equipment, copiers, computers,
printers, modems, computer network equipment, file cabinets, typewriters,
calculators, adding machines, fax machines, desks, chairs, sofas, tables,
artwork and other decor; all intellectual property, including, but not limited
to, software licenses; all business records, including, but not limited to,
accounting records, tax returns and files; all office supplies; all kitchen
equipment and supplies, including, but not limited to, microwave ovens, coffee
makers, refrigerators and utensils.

4. Located at 1808 N. Bell Street, San Angelo, Texas: All office equipment,
including, but not limited to, telephone equipment, copiers, computers,
printers, modems, computer network equipment, file cabinets, typewriters,
calculators, adding machines, fax machines, desks, chairs, sofas, tables,
artwork and other decor; all intellectual property, including, but not limited
to, software licenses; all business records, including, but not limited to,
accounting records, tax returns and files; all office supplies; all kitchen
equipment and supplies, including, but not limited to, microwave ovens, coffee
makers, refrigerators and utensils.

5. Located at 40 Corgey Road, Pleasanton, Texas: All office equipment,
including, but not limited to, telephone equipment, copiers, computers,
printers, modems, computer network equipment, file cabinets, typewriters,
calculators, adding machines, fax machines, desks, chairs, sofas, tables,
artwork and other decor; all intellectual property, including, but not limited
to, software licenses; all business records, including, but not limited to,
accounting records, tax returns and files; all office supplies; all kitchen
equipment and supplies, including, but not limited to, microwave ovens, coffee
makers, refrigerators and utensils.

6. Located at 305 W. Goodwin, Pleasanton, Texas: All office equipment,
including, but not limited to, telephone equipment, copiers, computers,
printers, modems, computer network equipment, file cabinets, typewriters,
calculators, adding machines, fax machines, desks, chairs, sofas, tables,
artwork and other decor; all intellectual property, including, but not limited
to, software licenses; all business records, including, but not limited to,
accounting records, tax returns and files; all office supplies; all kitchen
equipment and supplies, including, but not limited to, microwave ovens, coffee
makers, refrigerators and utensils.


                                      -31-
<PAGE>


                                 SCHEDULE 10(n)

               LAND DRILLING ASSETS OF KAC EQUIPMENT LEASING, INC.


Truck 18: 1981 Western Star S/N 2WKPDCJG6BK906916

Truck 19: 1981 Kenworth S/N 1XKWD29X5BC191236

Truck 20: 1979 Kenworth S/N 906067C

Trailer 37: 1982 Fontaine Lowbed S/N 1A184324XC0835863

1988 Trail King 4 axle detachable trailer S/N S0483CJM120308

1979 Peterbilt Bed truck VIN 112299P

1990 Freightliner S/N 1FUYDSYB7LP391287

1981 Autocar Truck VIN 1WBRCCJE0BU093156

1981 Mack Truck VIN 1M2P137Y5BA009858

22-6.75" Drill collars

22-6.5" Drill collars

Truck 35: 1989 International F9370 S/N 2HSFBAGR3KC017599


                                      -32-



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.1.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>d94131ex3-1_1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATE OF CORRECTION
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                 EXHIBIT 3.1.1

                            CERTIFICATE OF CORRECTION

                                       OF

                      RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

                                       OF

                           PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.

     Pursuant to the provisions of Section 103(f) of the Delaware General
Corporation Law, Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), adopts the following Certificate of Correction:

     FIRST: On May 8, 2001, the Company filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Delaware a Restated Certificate of Incorporation dated May 8, 2001 (the
"Restated Certificate of Incorporation"). The Restated Certificate of
Incorporation is an inaccurate record of the corporate action therein
referenced, as Section 1 of Article FOURTH thereof captioned "Preferred Stock"
failed to include a reference to the Series A Participating Preferred Stock
created by the Board of Directors of the Company through the filing of a
Certificate of Designation of the Company with the Secretary of State of the
State of Delaware on January 13, 1997.

     SECOND: Subsection 1.1 of Section 1 of Article FOURTH is corrected by
adding the following paragraph to the end of Subsection 1.1 thereof:

          Pursuant to authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board
     of directors of the Corporation, the board of directors created a series of
     100,000 shares of preferred stock designated Series A Participating
     Preferred Stock by filing a Certificate of Designation of the Corporation
     with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the "Secretary of
     State") on January 13, 1997, and the voting powers, designations,
     preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights,
     and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the
     Corporation's Series A Participating Preferred Stock are set forth on Annex
     A hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.

<PAGE>

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Correction
to be signed by its duly authorized officer as of the 19th day of November,
2001.

                                   PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.

                                   By:
                                       -----------------------------------------
                                       Jonathan D. Nelson
                                       Vice President - Finance, Chief Financial
                                       Officer, Secretary and Treasurer

                                       2

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.2
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>d94131ex3-2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.2


                           AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS

                                       OF

                           PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.
                             A DELAWARE CORPORATION

                                OCTOBER 23, 2001


<PAGE>

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                                               PAGE
                                                                                                               ----
<S>                                                                                                            <C>

ARTICLE I Meetings of Stockholders................................................................................1

   Section 1.        Annual Meetings..............................................................................1
   Section 2.        Special Meetings.............................................................................1
   Section 3.        Notices of Meetings..........................................................................1
   Section 4.        Place of Meetings............................................................................1
   Section 5.        Quorum.......................................................................................1
   Section 6.        Record Date..................................................................................2
   Section 7.        Proxies......................................................................................2
   Section 8.        Stockholder Proposals at Annual Meetings.....................................................2
   Section 9.        Notice of Stockholder Nominees...............................................................3

ARTICLE II Directors..............................................................................................4

   Section 1.        Number of Directors..........................................................................4
   Section 2.        Election of Directors........................................................................5
   Section 3.        Term of Office...............................................................................5
   Section 4.        Removal......................................................................................5
   Section 5.        Vacancies....................................................................................5
   Section 6.        Quorum and Transaction of Business...........................................................5
   Section 7.        Annual Meeting...............................................................................5
   Section 8.        Regular Meetings.............................................................................5
   Section 9.        Special Meetings.............................................................................6
   Section 10.       Notice of Annual or Special Meetings.........................................................6
   Section 11.       Action by Consent............................................................................6
   Section 12.       Compensation.................................................................................6

ARTICLE III Committees............................................................................................6

   Section 1.        Executive Committee..........................................................................6
   Section 2.        Meetings of Executive Committee..............................................................7
   Section 3.        Other Committees.............................................................................7

ARTICLE IV Officers...............................................................................................7

   Section 1.        General Provisions...........................................................................7
   Section 2.        Term of Office...............................................................................7

ARTICLE V Duties of Officers......................................................................................8

   Section 1.        Chairman of the Board........................................................................8
   Section 2.        Chief Executive Officer......................................................................8
   Section 3.        President....................................................................................8
   Section 4.        Vice Presidents..............................................................................8
   Section 5.        Secretary....................................................................................9
   Section 6.        Treasurer....................................................................................9
</Table>


                                       i
<PAGE>

<Table>
<S>                                                                                                            <C>
   Section 7.        Assistant and Subordinate Officers...........................................................9
   Section 8.        Duties of Officers May Be Delegated..........................................................9

ARTICLE VI Indemnification of Directors, Officers, Employees and Other Agents.....................................9

   Section 1.        Indemnification of Directors and Officers....................................................9
   Section 2.        Indemnification of Others...................................................................10
   Section 3.        Insurance...................................................................................10
   Section 4.        Expenses....................................................................................10
   Section 5.        Non-Exclusivity of Rights...................................................................11
   Section 6.        Survival of Rights..........................................................................11
   Section 7.        Amendments..................................................................................11

ARTICLE VII Certificates for Shares..............................................................................11

   Section 1.        Form and Execution..........................................................................11
   Section 2.        Registration of Transfer....................................................................12
   Section 3.        Lost, Destroyed or Stolen Certificates......................................................12
   Section 4.        Registered Stockholders.....................................................................12

ARTICLE VIII Fiscal Year.........................................................................................12


ARTICLE IX Seal..................................................................................................13


ARTICLE X Amendments.............................................................................................13
</Table>


                                       ii
<PAGE>

                           AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS
                                       OF
                           PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.
                             a Delaware corporation

                                    ARTICLE I

                            Meetings of Stockholders

         Section 1. Annual Meetings. The annual meeting of stockholders shall be
held at such time and place and on such date in each year as may be fixed by the
board of directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, for the election of
directors, the consideration of reports to be laid before such meeting, and the
transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting.

         Section 2. Special Meetings. A special meeting of the stockholders for
the transaction of any proper business may only be called in accordance with the
provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation.

         Section 3. Notices of Meetings. Unless waived, and except as provided
in Section 230 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, written
notice of each annual or special meeting stating the place, date, and hour of
the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for
which the meeting is called, shall be given by personal delivery or by mail to
each stockholder of record entitled to vote at or entitled to notice of the
meeting, not more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before any
such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be directed to the stockholder at his
address as the same appears upon the records of the Corporation. Any
stockholder, either before or after any meeting, may waive any notice required
to be given by law or under these Bylaws.

         Section 4. Place of Meetings. Meetings of stockholders shall be held at
the principal office of the Corporation unless the board of directors determines
that a meeting shall be held at some other place within or without the State of
Delaware and causes the notice thereof to so state.

         Section 5. Quorum. The holders of shares entitling them to exercise a
majority of the voting power of the Corporation entitled to vote at any meeting,
present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business to be considered at such meeting; provided, however,
that no action required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or these
Bylaws to be authorized or taken by the holders of a designated proportion of
the shares of any particular class or of each class may be authorized or taken
by a lesser proportion; and provided, further, that, if a separate class vote is
required with respect to any matter, the holders of a majority of the
outstanding shares of such class, present in person or represented by proxy,
shall constitute a quorum of such class, and the affirmative vote of the
majority of shares of such class so present shall be the act of such class. The
holders of a majority of the voting shares represented at a meeting, whether or
not a quorum is present, may adjourn such meeting from time to time, until a
quorum shall be present.



<PAGE>

         Section 6. Record Date. The board of directors may fix a record date
for any lawful purpose, including, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, the determination of stockholders entitled to (a) receive notice of
or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof or to
express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, (b) receive
payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or (c)
exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion, or exchange of stock.
Such record date shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the
record date is adopted by the board of directors. Such record date shall not be
more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such
meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days before the date fixed for the payment of
any dividend or distribution or the date fixed for the receipt or the exercise
of rights, nor more than ten (10) days after the date on which the resolution
fixing the record date for such written consent is adopted by the board of
directors, as the case may be.

                  If a record date shall not be fixed in respect of any such
matter, the record date shall be determined in accordance with the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.

         Section 7. Proxies. A person who is entitled to attend a stockholders'
meeting, to vote thereat, or to execute consents, waivers, or releases, may be
represented at such meeting or vote thereat, and execute consents, waivers, and
releases, and exercise any of his other rights, by proxy or proxies appointed by
a writing signed by such person.

         Section 8. Stockholder Proposals at Annual Meetings.

                  (a) No business shall be conducted at an annual meeting of
stockholders unless such business is properly brought before the meeting in
accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth in this Section 8;
provided, however, nothing in this Section 8 shall be deemed to preclude
discussion by any stockholder of any business properly brought before the annual
meeting in accordance with said procedures.

                  (b) To be properly brought before the meeting, business must
be (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by
or at the direction of the board of directors, (ii) otherwise properly brought
before the meeting by or at the direction of the board of directors or (iii)
otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder who (A) is a
stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for below
and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at
such annual meeting and (B) gives timely notice of such business in writing to
the Secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be
delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the
Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to the
anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders;
provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a
date that is not within 30 days before or after such anniversary date, notice by
the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of
business on the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of
the meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the annual meeting date was made,
whichever occurs first. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary of the
Corporation shall set forth (i) a brief description of each matter desired to be
brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business
at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of the stockholder
proposing such business, (iii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation
that



                                       2
<PAGE>

are beneficially owned by the stockholder, (iv) any material interest of the
stockholder in such business and (v) a representation that such stockholder
intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such
business before the meeting.

                  (c) Any adjournment or postponement of the original meeting
whereby the meeting will reconvene within 30 days from the original date shall
be deemed for purposes of notice to be a continuation of the original meeting
and no business may be brought before any such reconvened meeting unless timely
notice of such business was given to the Secretary of the Corporation for the
meeting as originally scheduled.

                  (d) If the Chairman of an annual meeting of stockholders
determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in
accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the
meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such
business shall not be transacted.

                  (e) For purposes of this Section 8, the term "public
disclosure" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones
News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a
document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended.

                  (f) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section 8 to
the contrary, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this
Section 8. Nothing in this Section 8 shall be deemed to affect any rights of
stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy
statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

         Section 9. Notice of Stockholder Nominees.

                  (a) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this Section 9 shall be eligible for election as
directors of the Corporation.

                  (b) Nominations of persons for election to the board of
directors of the Corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders only (i)
by or at the direction of the board of directors or (ii) by a stockholder who
(A) is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided
for below and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled
to vote at such annual meeting and (B) gives timely notice in writing to the
Secretary of the Corporation of such nomination. To be timely, a stockholder's
notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive
offices of the Corporation not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to
the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of
stockholders; provided, however, that in the event that the annual meeting is
called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after such anniversary
date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later than
the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such notice of
the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the annual meeting
date was made, whichever occurs first. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary
of the Corporation shall set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder



                                       3
<PAGE>

proposes to nominate for election or re-election as director, all information
relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of
proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case
pursuant to Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended, or any successor regulation thereto, (ii) the name and record
address of the stockholder proposing such business, (iii) the class and number
of shares of the Corporation that are beneficially owned by the stockholder,
(iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such
stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including
their names) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by
such stockholder and (v) a representation that such stockholder intends to
appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in the
notice. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed
nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.

                  (c) Any adjournment or postponement of the original meeting
whereby the meeting will reconvene within 30 days from the original date shall
be deemed for purposes of notice to be a continuation of the original meeting
and no nominations by a stockholder of persons to be elected as directors of the
Corporation may be made at any such reconvened meeting unless timely notice of
such nominations was given to the Secretary of the Corporation for the meeting
as originally scheduled.

                  (d) If the Chairman of a meeting of stockholders determines
that a nomination was not properly brought before the annual meeting in
accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the
meeting that the nomination was not properly brought before the meeting and such
nomination shall be disregarded.

                  (e) For purposes of this Section 9, the term "public
disclosure" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones
News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a
document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended.

                  (f) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section 9 to
the contrary, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and
regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this
Section 9. Nothing in this Section 9 shall be deemed to affect any rights of the
holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified
circumstances.

                                   ARTICLE II

                                    Directors

         Section 1. Number of Directors. Until changed in accordance with the
provisions of this section, the number of directors of the Corporation, none of
whom need be stockholders, shall be four (4). The number of directors may be
fixed or changed by amendment of these Bylaws or by resolution of the board of
directors.



                                       4
<PAGE>

         Section 2. Election of Directors. Directors shall be elected at the
annual meeting of stockholders, but when the annual meeting is not held or
directors are not elected thereat, they may be elected at a special meeting
called and held for that purpose. Such election shall be by ballot whenever
requested by any stockholder entitled to vote at such election, but unless such
request is made, the election may be conducted in any manner approved at such
meeting.

                  At each meeting of stockholders for the election of directors,
the persons receiving the greatest number of votes shall be directors.

         Section 3. Term of Office. Each director shall hold office until the
annual meeting next succeeding his election and until his successor is elected
and qualified, or until his earlier resignation, removal from office, or death.

         Section 4. Removal. All the directors, or all the directors of a
particular class, or any individual director may be removed from office, with or
without cause, by the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares then
entitled to vote at an election of directors.

         Section 5. Vacancies. Vacancies in the board of directors may be filled
by a majority vote of the remaining directors until an election to fill such
vacancies is held. Stockholders entitled to elect directors shall have the right
to fill any vacancy in the board (whether the same has been temporarily filled
by the remaining directors or not) at any meeting of the stockholders called for
that purpose, and any directors elected at any such meeting of stockholders
shall serve until the next annual election of directors and until their
successors are elected and qualified, or until their earlier resignation,
removal from office, or death.

         Section 6. Quorum and Transaction of Business. A majority of the whole
authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business, except that a majority of the directors in office shall constitute a
quorum for filling a vacancy on the board. Whenever less than a quorum is
present at the time and place appointed for any meeting of the board, a majority
of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, until a quorum shall
be present. The act of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which
a quorum is present shall be the act of the board.

         Section 7. Annual Meeting. Annual meetings of the board of directors
shall be held immediately following annual meetings of the stockholders, or as
soon thereafter as is practicable. If no annual meeting of the stockholders is
held, or if directors are not elected thereat, then the annual meeting of the
board of directors shall be held immediately following any special meeting of
the stockholders at which directors are elected, or as soon thereafter as is
practicable. If such annual meeting of directors is held immediately following a
meeting of the stockholders, it shall be held at the same place at which such
stockholders' meeting was held.

         Section 8. Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the board of directors
shall be held at such times and places, within or without the State of Delaware,
as the board of directors may, by resolution, from time to time determine. The
secretary shall give notice of each such resolution to any director who was not
present at the time the same was adopted, but no further notice of such regular
meeting need be given.



                                       5
<PAGE>

         Section 9. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the board of directors
may be called by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the
president, or any two members of the board of directors, and shall be held at
such times and places, within or without the State of Delaware, as may be
specified in such call.

         Section 10. Notice of Annual or Special Meetings. Notice of the time
and place of each annual or special meeting shall be given to each director by
the secretary or by the person or persons calling such meeting. Such notice need
not specify the purpose or purposes of the meeting and may be given in any
manner or method and at such time so that the director receiving it may have
reasonable opportunity to attend the meeting. Such notice shall, in all events,
be deemed to have been properly and duly given if mailed at least forty-eight
(48) hours prior to the meeting and directed to the residence of each director
as shown upon the secretary's records. The giving of notice shall be deemed to
have been waived by any director who shall attend and participate in such
meeting and may be waived, in a writing, by any director either before or after
such meeting.

         Section 11. Action by Consent. Any action required or permitted to be
taken at any meeting of the board of directors or of any committee thereof may
be taken without a meeting if a written consent thereto is signed by all members
of the board of directors or of such committee, as the case may be, and such
written consent is filed with the minutes of proceedings of the board of
directors or of such committee.

         Section 12. Compensation. The directors, as such, shall be entitled to
receive such reasonable compensation, if any, for their services as may be fixed
from time to time by resolution of the board, and expenses of attendance, if
any, may be allowed for attendance at each annual, regular, or special meeting
of the board. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to preclude any
director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving
compensation therefor. Members of the executive committee or of any standing or
special committee may by resolution of the board be allowed such compensation
for their services as the board may deem reasonable, and additional compensation
may be allowed to directors for special services rendered.

                                   ARTICLE III

                                   Committees

         Section 1. Executive Committee. The board of directors may from time to
time, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole board, create an executive
committee of three (3) or more directors, the members of which shall be elected
by the board of directors to serve during the pleasure of the board. If the
board of directors does not designate a chairman of the executive committee, the
executive committee shall elect a chairman from its own number. Except as
otherwise provided herein and in the resolution creating an executive committee,
such committee shall, during the intervals between the meetings of the board of
directors, possess and may exercise all of the powers of the board of directors
in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, other than
that of filling vacancies among the directors or in any committee of the
directors or except as provided by law. The executive committee shall keep full
records and accounts of its proceedings and transactions. All action by the
executive



                                       6
<PAGE>

committee shall be reported to the board of directors at its meeting next
succeeding such action and shall be subject to control, revision, and alteration
by the board of directors, provided that no rights of third persons shall be
prejudicially affected thereby. Vacancies in the executive committee shall be
filled by the directors, and the directors may appoint one or more directors as
alternate members of the committee who may take the place of any absent member
or members at any meeting.

         Section 2. Meetings of Executive Committee. Subject to the provisions
of these Bylaws, the executive committee shall fix its own rules of procedure
and shall meet as provided by such rules or by resolutions of the board of
directors, and it shall also meet at the call of the chairman of the board, the
chief executive officer, the president, the chairman of the executive committee
or any two (2) members of the committee. Unless otherwise provided by such rules
or by such resolutions, the provisions of Section 10 of Article II relating to
the notice required to be given of meetings of the board of directors shall also
apply to meetings of the members of the executive committee. A majority of the
executive committee may act in a writing without a meeting, but no such action
of the executive committee shall be effective unless concurred in by all members
of the committee.

         Section 3. Other Committees. The board of directors may by resolution
provide for such other standing or special committees as it deems desirable, and
discontinue the same at its pleasure. Each such committee shall have such powers
and perform such duties, not inconsistent with law, as may be delegated to it by
the board of directors. The provisions of Section 1 and Section 2 of this
Article shall govern the appointment and action of such committees so far as
consistent, unless otherwise provided by the board of directors. Vacancies in
such committees shall be filled by the board of directors or as the board of
directors may provide.

                                   ARTICLE IV

                                    Officers

         Section 1. General Provisions. The board of directors shall elect a
president, such number of vice presidents (if any), with such titles (if any),
as the board may from time to time determine, a secretary and a treasurer. The
board of directors may also elect a chairman of the board of directors, chief
executive officer, chief operating officer, chief financial officer, and may
from time to time create such offices and appoint such other officers,
subordinate officers, and assistant officers as it may determine. The chairman
of the board, if one be elected, shall be, but the other officers need not be,
chosen from among the members of the board of directors. Any two or more of such
offices, other than those of president and vice president, may be held by the
same person, but no officer shall execute, acknowledge, or verify any instrument
in more than one capacity.

         Section 2. Term of Office. The officers of the Corporation shall hold
office during the pleasure of the board of directors, and, unless sooner removed
by the board of directors, until the annual meeting of the board of directors
following the date of their election and until their successors are chosen and
qualified. The board of directors may remove any officer at any time, with or
without cause. Subject to the provisions of Section 7 of Article V of these
Bylaws, a vacancy in any office, however created, shall be filled by the board
of directors.



                                       7
<PAGE>

                                    ARTICLE V

                               Duties of Officers

         Section 1. Chairman of the Board. The chairman of the board, if one be
elected, shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation (unless a
separate chief executive officer is elected), shall preside at all meetings of
the board of directors and, unless the chairman of the board designates another
officer of the Corporation to so preside, meetings of stockholders, and shall
have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the board of
directors.

         Section 2. Chief Executive Officer. Unless and to the extent that such
powers and duties are expressly delegated to the chairman of the board or the
president by the board of directors, the chief executive officer shall be the
chief executive officer of the Corporation, and, subject to the supervision of
the board of directors, shall, together with the president (and each of them
acting individually shall), have general management and control of the business
and properties of the corporation in the ordinary course of its business with
all such powers with respect to such general management and control as may be
reasonably incident to such responsibilities, including, but not limited to, the
power to employ, discharge, or suspend employees and agents of the Corporation,
to fix the compensation of employees and agents, and to suspend, with or without
cause, any officer of the Corporation pending final action by the board of
directors with respect to continued suspension, removal, or reinstatement of
such officer. In the absence of the chairman of the board, or if none be
elected, the chief executive officer shall preside at meetings of stockholders.
The chief executive officer shall have authority to sign all certificates for
shares and all deeds, mortgages, bonds, agreements, notes, and other instruments
in the name of the Corporation and shall have such powers and duties as the
board of directors may from time to time assign to him.

         Section 3. President. Unless and to the extent that such powers and
duties are expressly delegated to the chairman of the board or chief executive
officer by the board of directors, the president shall, together with the chief
executive officer (and each of them individually shall) have, subject to the
supervision of the board of directors, general management and control of the
business and properties of the Corporation in the ordinary course of its
business with all such powers with respect to such general management and
control as may be reasonably incident to such responsibilities, including, but
not limited to, the power to employ, discharge, or suspend employees and agents
of the Corporation, to fix the compensation of employees and agents, and to
suspend, with or without cause, any officer of the Corporation pending final
action by the board of directors with respect to continued suspension, removal,
or reinstatement of such officer. In the absence of the chairman of the board,
or if none be elected, the president shall preside at meetings of stockholders.
The president shall have authority to sign all certificates for shares and all
deeds, mortgages, bonds, agreements, notes, and other instruments in the name of
the Corporation and shall have such powers and duties prescribed by the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and such other powers and duties as the
board of directors may from time to time assign to him.

         Section 4. Vice Presidents. The vice presidents shall have such powers
and duties as may from time to time be assigned to them by the board of
directors, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, or the
president. At the request of the president, in the case of his



                                       8
<PAGE>

absence or disability, the vice president designated by the president (or in the
absence of such designation, the vice president designated by the board) shall
perform all the duties of the president and, when so acting, shall have all the
powers of the president. The authority of vice presidents to sign in the name of
the Corporation certificates for shares and deeds, mortgages, bonds, agreements,
notes, and other instruments shall be coordinated with like authority of the
president.

         Section 5. Secretary. The secretary shall keep minutes of all the
proceedings of the stockholders and the board of directors and shall make proper
record of the same, which shall be attested by him; shall have authority to
execute and deliver certificates as to any of such proceedings and any other
records of the Corporation; shall have authority to sign all certificates for
shares and all deeds, mortgages, bonds, agreements, notes, and other instruments
to be executed by the Corporation which require his signature; shall give notice
of meetings of stockholders and directors; shall produce on request at each
meeting of stockholders a certified list of stockholders arranged in
alphabetical order; shall keep such books and records as may be required by law
or by the board of directors; and, in general, shall perform all duties incident
to the office of the secretary and such other duties as may from time to time be
assigned to him by the board of directors, the chairman of the board, the chief
executive officer, or the president.

         Section 6. Treasurer. The treasurer shall have the general supervision
of all finances; he shall have in charge all money, bills, notes, deeds, leases,
mortgages, and similar property belonging to the Corporation, and shall do with
the same as may from time to time be required by the board of directors. He
shall cause to be kept adequate and correct accounts of the business
transactions of the Corporation, including accounts of its assets, liabilities,
receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, stated capital, and shares, together
with such other accounts as may be required; and he shall have such other powers
and duties as may from time to time be assigned to him by the board of
directors, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, or the
president.

         Section 7. Assistant and Subordinate Officers. Each other officer shall
perform such duties as the board of directors, the chairman of the board, the
chief executive officer, or the president may prescribe. The board of directors
may, from time to time, authorize any officer to appoint and remove subordinate
officers, to prescribe their authority and duties, and to fix their
compensation.

         Section 8. Duties of Officers May Be Delegated. In the absence of any
officer of the Corporation, or for any other reason the board of directors may
deem sufficient, the board of directors may delegate, for the time being, the
powers or duties, or any of them, of such officers to any other officer or to
any director.

                                   ARTICLE VI

       Indemnification of Directors, Officers, Employees and Other Agents

         Section 1. Indemnification of Directors and Officers. The Corporation
shall, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the General
Corporation Law of Delaware, indemnify each of its directors and officers
against expenses (including attorneys' fees),



                                       9
<PAGE>

judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred
in connection with any proceeding, arising by reason of the fact that such
person is or was an agent of the Corporation, provided, however, that the
Corporation may modify the extent of such indemnification by individual
contracts with its directors and executive officers and, provided, further, that
the Corporation shall not be required to indemnify any director or officer in
connection with any proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless
(i) such indemnification is expressly required to be made by law, (ii) the
proceeding was authorized in advance by the board of directors of the
Corporation, (iii) such indemnification is provided by the Corporation, in its
sole discretion, pursuant to the powers vested in the Corporation under the
General Corporation Law of Delaware or (iv) such indemnification is required to
be made pursuant to an individual contract. For purposes of this Section 1, a
"director" or "officer" of the Corporation includes any person (i) who is or was
a director or officer of the Corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the
request of the Corporation as a director, officer, manager or partner of another
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, limited partnership, joint
venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was a director or officer of a
corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the Corporation or of another
enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.

         Section 2. Indemnification of Others. The Corporation shall have the
power, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the General
Corporation law of Delaware, to indemnify each of its employees and agents
(other than directors and officers) against expenses (including attorneys'
fees), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably
incurred in connection with any proceeding, arising by reason of the fact that
such person is or was an agent of the Corporation. For purposes of this Section
2, an "employee" or "agent" of the Corporation (other than a director or
officer) includes any person (i) who is or was an employee or agent of the
Corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as an
employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, limited partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii)
who was an employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor
corporation of the Corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such
predecessor corporation.

         Section 3. Insurance. The Corporation may purchase and maintain
insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or
agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation
as a director, officer, manager, partner, employee or agent of another
corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any
liability asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such
capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the
Corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability
under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.

         Section 4. Expenses. The Corporation shall advance to any person who
was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending
or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative
or investigative, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or
officer of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the
Corporation as a director, officer, manager or partner of another corporation,
partnership, limited liability company, limited partnership, joint venture,
trust or other enterprise, prior to the final disposition of the proceeding,
promptly following request therefor, all expenses incurred by any



                                       10
<PAGE>

director or officer in connection with such proceeding, upon receipt of an
undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay said amounts if it should be
determined ultimately that such person is not entitled to be indemnified under
this Bylaw or otherwise; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not be
required to advance expenses to any director or officer in connection with any
proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless the proceeding was
authorized in advance by the board of directors of the Corporation.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined pursuant to Section
5, no advance shall be made by the Corporation to an officer of the Corporation
(except by reason of the fact that such officer is or was a director of the
Corporation in which event this paragraph shall not apply) in any action, suit
or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, if a
determination is reasonably and promptly made (i) by the board of directors by a
majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to the
proceeding, or (ii) if such quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable, a
quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a
written opinion, that the facts known to the decision-making party at the time
such determination is made demonstrate clearly and convincingly that such person
acted in bad faith or in a manner that such person did not believe to be in or
not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation.

         Section 5. Non-Exclusivity of Rights. The rights conferred on any
person by this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which such person
may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of
Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested
directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to
action in another capacity while holding office. The Corporation is specifically
authorized to enter into individual contracts with any or all of its directors,
officers, employees or agents respecting indemnification and advances, to the
fullest extent not prohibited by the General Corporation Law of Delaware.

         Section 6. Survival of Rights. The rights conferred on any person by
this Bylaw shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director,
officer, employee or other agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs,
executors and administrators of such a person.

         Section 7. Amendments. Any repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall
only be prospective and shall not affect the rights under this Bylaw in effect
at the time of the alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that is
the cause of any proceeding against any agent of the Corporation.

                                   ARTICLE VII

                             Certificates for Shares

         Section 1. Form and Execution. Certificates for shares, certifying the
number of fully-paid shares owned, shall be issued to each stockholder in such
form as shall be approved by the board of directors. Such certificates shall be
signed by the chairman or vice-chairman of the board of directors, or the
president or a vice president, and by the secretary or an assistant secretary,
or the treasurer or an assistant treasurer; provided, however, that the
signatures of any of such officers and the seal of the Corporation upon such
certificates may be facsimiles, engraved, stamped, or printed. If any officer or
officers who shall have signed, or whose



                                       11
<PAGE>

facsimile signature shall have been used, printed, or stamped on any certificate
or certificates for shares, shall cease to be such officer or officers, because
of death, resignation, or otherwise, before such certificate or certificates
shall have been delivered by the Corporation, such certificate or certificates
shall nevertheless be as effective in all respects as though signed by a duly
elected, qualified, and authorized officer or officers, and as though the person
or persons who signed such certificate or certificates, or whose facsimile
signature or signatures shall have been used thereon, had not ceased to be an
officer or officers of the Corporation.

         Section 2. Registration of Transfer. Any certificate for shares of the
Corporation shall be transferable in person or by attorney upon the surrender
thereof to the Corporation or any transfer agent therefor (for the class of
shares represented by the certificate surrendered) properly endorsed for
transfer and accompanied by such assurances as the Corporation or such transfer
agent may require as to the genuineness and effectiveness of each necessary
endorsement.

         Section 3. Lost, Destroyed or Stolen Certificates. A new share
certificate or certificates may be issued in place of any certificate
theretofore issued by the Corporation which is alleged to have been lost,
destroyed, or wrongfully taken upon (a) the execution and delivery to the
Corporation by the person claiming the certificate to have been lost, destroyed,
or wrongfully taken of an affidavit of that fact, specifying whether or not, at
the time of such alleged loss, destruction, or taking, the certificate was
endorsed, and (b) the furnishing to the Corporation of indemnity and other
assurances, if any, satisfactory to the Corporation and to all transfer agents
and registrars of the class of shares represented by the certificate against any
and all losses, damages, costs, expenses, or liabilities to which they or any of
them may be subjected by reason of the issue and delivery of such new
certificate or certificates or in respect of the original certificate.

         Section 4. Registered Stockholders. A person in whose name shares are
of record on the books of the Corporation shall conclusively be deemed the
unqualified owner and holder thereof for all purposes and to have capacity to
exercise all rights of ownership. Neither the Corporation nor any transfer agent
of the Corporation shall be bound to recognize any equitable interest in or
claim to such shares on the part of any other person, whether disclosed upon
such certificate or otherwise, nor shall they be obliged to see to the execution
of any trust or obligation.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                   Fiscal Year

         The fiscal year of the Corporation shall commence on such date in each
year as shall be designated from time to time by the board of directors. In the
absence of such designation, the fiscal year of the Corporation shall commence
on January 1 in each year.



                                       12
<PAGE>

                                   ARTICLE IX

                                      Seal

         The board of directors may provide a suitable seal containing the name
of the Corporation. If deemed advisable by the board of directors, duplicate
seals may be provided and kept for the purposes of the Corporation.

                                    ARTICLE X

                                   Amendments

         These Bylaws shall be subject to alteration, amendment, repeal, or the
adoption or new Bylaws either by the affirmative vote or written consent of a
majority of the whole board of directors, or by the affirmative vote of a
majority of the outstanding stock of the Corporation, present in person or
represented by proxy and entitled to vote in respect thereof, given at an annual
meeting or at any special meeting at which a quorum shall be present.




                                       13

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4.2.1
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>d94131ex4-2_1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENT TO CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 4.2.1

                     AMENDMENT TO CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION

                                       OF

                      RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION

                                       OF

                           PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.

     It is hereby certified that pursuant to authority granted to and vested in
the Board of Directors of the Corporation by the provisions of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors of the
Corporation has duly adopted the following resolutions relating to an amendment
to the Certificate of Designation filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on
January 13, 1997 and subsequently filed as Annex A to the Certificate of
Correction of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation filed
on November 20, 2001:

     1. RESOLVED, that the Certificate of Designation of the Corporation filed
by the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on
January 13, 1997 and attached as Annex A to the Certificate of Correction of the
Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed on November 20, 2001, relating to
the Series A Participating Preferred Stock of the Corporation is hereby amended
as follows:

     (A) The number "100" appearing in the tenth and eleventh lines of Section
2(A) is hereby changed in each instance to the number "1,000;"

     (B) The number "100" appearing in the third line of Section 3(A) is hereby
changed to the number "1,000;"

     (C) The dollar number "$1.00" appearing in the seventh line of Section 6(A)
is hereby changed to the dollar number "$100" and the number "100" appearing in
the thirteenth line of Section 6(A) is hereby changed to the number "1,000."

     (D) The number "100" appearing in the sixth line of Section 7 is hereby
changed to the number "1,000."

     2. No shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock of the Corporation
have been issued or are outstanding.

     FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Certificate of Designation filed on January 13,
1997, as amended pursuant to the foregoing resolution, is hereby ratified and
approved;

     AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the proper officers of the Corporation be
and each of them hereby is authorized to execute an amendment to the Certificate
of

<PAGE>

Designation of Restated Certificate of Incorporation pursuant to the applicable
section of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and to take all
appropriate action to cause that amendment to the certificate to be filed,
recorded and become effective in accordance with Section 103 of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment to Certificate of Designation has been
executed effective as of this 20th day of November, 2001.



                                       -----------------------------------------
                                       Jonathan D. Nelson
                                       Vice President - Finance, Chief Financial
                                       Officer, Secretary and Treasurer

                                       2

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4.3
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>d94131ex4-3.txt
<DESCRIPTION>REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                 EXHIBIT 4.3

                        [REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT]

         THIS AGREEMENT is dated March 25, 1994 by and between UTI ENERGY CORP.,
a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and BEAR, STEARNS & CO. INC., a Delaware
corporation ("Holder").

                                  WITNESSETH:

         Holder is the record and beneficial owner of ____ shares (the "Shares")
of the Company's common stock, par value $.001 per share (the "Common Stock").
Holder desires to obtain certain rights with respect to the registration of
Shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act") in order to
facilitate the public sale and distribution of all or a part of such Shares, and
the Company is willing to furnish such rights under and subject to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
covenants herein contained, the parties hereby agree as follows:


         1. Registration Rights.

                  (a) Registration of Common Stock by the Company. Until such
time as the Holder no longer holds Shares that are entitled to be registered
under this Agreement by virtue of subsection 1(h) hereof, whenever the Company
shall propose to file a registration statement (other than on Form S-4, Form S-8
or any successor forms thereto) under the Act, or a similar document under any
other statute than in effect corresponding to the Act relating to the public
offering of shares of the Common Stock of the Company within the United States
(a "Registration Statement"), the Company shall (i) give written notice at least
thirty (30) days prior to the filing thereof to the Holder specifying the date
on which the Company proposes to file such Registration Statement and advising
the Holder of this right to have all or any portion of the Shares included
therein, (ii) at the written request of the Holder given to the Company within
fifteen (15) days after receipt of any such notice (which request shall specify
the Shares intended to be sold or disposed of), include among the securities
covered by such Registration Statement, the number of such Shares so requested
to be included, and (iii) use its reasonable efforts to cause such Registration
Statement to become effective and to remain effective for the period required to
permit the public offering and sale by the Holder of the Shares covered thereby
(but not for more than 180 days following the effective date thereof). However,
if all or any part of the proposed registration is to be underwritten (whether
on a "best efforts" or a "firm commitment" basis), the managing underwriter
shall have the right to exclude Shares to the extent the inclusion of such
Shares would, in the written opinion of such managing underwriter, adversely
affect the successful distribution of the underwritten portion of the public

<PAGE>

offering, provided (a) during the time the Holder owns 25% or more of the
issued and outstanding Common Stock of the Company, such exclusion applies on a
proportional basis not only to the Shares but also to all other securities
proposed to be included including those for which the Company initiated the
registration and those proposed to be included by other shareholders of the
Company who have the right to include securities of the Company in such
registration, and (b) during the time the Holder owns less than 25% of the
issued and outstanding Common Stock of the Company such exclusion applies on a
proportional basis not only to the Shares but also to all other securities
proposed to be included other than those for which the Company initiated the
registration. Any exclusion of Shares shall be made pro rata among the Holder,
the Company, if applicable, and other affected shareholders. The Company shall
not grant registration rights to any other person after the date of this
Agreement and while the Holder shall remain entitled to registration rights
pursuant to this Section 1(a). Holder acknowledges that the Company has
previously granted certain registration rights in the Common Stock Purchase
Warrant dated December 14, 1993 issued to UGI Corporation or its affiliates,
and that such rights remain outstanding.

     (b) Registration of Shares at the Request of a Stockholder. Until such
time as the Holder no longer holds Shares that are entitled to be registered
under this Agreement by virtue of subsection 1(h) hereof, whenever the Company
shall receive a written request of the Holder that the Company file a
Registration Statement under the Act (which request shall state the number of
Shares to be registered), the Company shall promptly (and in any event within
45 days), subject to the provisions contained in the next paragraph of this
Section 1(b), (i) give written notice of such request to each other shareholder
having registration rights, if any, of his right to have shares then held by
such shareholder included among the securities covered by such registration and
offering each such other shareholder an opportunity to request in writing to
have any or all of such shareholder's shares to be so included, (ii) promptly
prepare and file such Registration Statement, and (iii) use its reasonable
efforts to cause the same to become effective as soon as practicable and to
remain effective for the period required to permit the public offering and sale
of the Shares covered thereby (but not for more than 180 days following the
effective date thereof). Whenever the Company shall file a Registration
Statement pursuant to this Section 1(b) in connection with an underwritten
public offering by the Holder, no securities other than Shares of Holder shall
be included among the securities covered by such Registration Statement to the
extent the inclusion of such other securities would, in the written opinion of
the managing underwriter of such offering, adversely affect



                                      -2-
<PAGE>
the successful distribution of Holder's Shares unless the Holder shall have
consented in writing to the inclusion of such other securities. The managing
underwriter, if any, of any offering pursuant to this Section 1(b) shall be
selected by the Holder and shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Company
(Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. being deemed reasonably satisfactory).


         At such time as Holder no longer holds Ten Percent (10%) of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock and thereafter, Holder agrees that upon
receipt by the Company of a written request to file a Registration Statement
pursuant to this Section 1(b), the Company shall have the right, exercisable
within ten (10) days after receipt of such notice by the Company's giving notice
to the Holder to suspend its obligation to file such Registration Statement for
a period which shall commence on the date such notice is given and continued
until the earlier to occur or (x) the expiration of 60 days, or (y) the date the
Company next files with the Securities and Exchange Commission a quarterly
report on Form 10-Q or an annual report on Form 10-K (the "Blockage Period").
The notice from the Company must state that the Company has determined that it
is in its best interests to delay filing such Registration Statement during the
Blockage Period. A further request to file a Registration Statement pursuant to
this Section 1(b) can be made for a period of 20 days after the termination of
the Blockage Period, which request the Company may not suspend. If the Company
receives any request pursuant to this Section 1(b) after the end of such 20 day
period then the Company may again exercise its right to suspend its obligation
pursuant to this Section 1(b) during the Blockage Period by giving the notice
required by the next preceding sentence. The foregoing procedures shall be
repeated successively until such time as the Company complies with its
obligations under the first paragraph of this Section 1(b) or it is no longer
obligated to comply therewith. The Holder further agrees that the Company shall
be obligated to comply only three times with the provisions contained in this
subsection 1(b).

                  (c) Ancillary Company Action to be Taken in Connection with
Any Registration. Whenever the Company shall include any Shares among the
securities covered by a Registration Statement pursuant to Section 1(a) or file
a Registration Statement pursuant to Section 1(b), the Company shall (i) comply
with all applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commission in connection therewith, (ii) thereafter, for such period of time as
shall be required in connection with the transactions contemplated thereby and
permitted by applicable rules, regulations and administrative practice (but not
for more than 180 days following the effective date of such Registration
Statement), file such post-effective amendments and supplements thereto as shall
be necessary so that neither such Registration


                                      -3-
<PAGE>
Statement nor any related prospectus, prospectus supplement or amendment shall
contain any material misstatement or omission relative to the Company or any of
its assets or its business or affairs and so that such Registration Statement
and prospectus, prospectus supplement or amendment will otherwise comply with
all applicable legal requirements, (iii) furnish to the Holder such number of
copies of such Registration Statement and any related preliminary prospectus,
prospectus, post-effective amendment, supplement or similar document forming a
part thereof as Holder may reasonably request) and (iv) take all action which
may be necessary under the securities or Blue Sky laws of any state (except that
the Company shall not be required to qualify generally to do business as a
foreign corporation in any jurisdiction wherein it is not so qualified, to
subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or to consent to general
service of process in any such jurisdiction), and as may be reasonably requested
by the Holder, to permit the public offering and sale of the Shares held by the
Holder and covered by such Registration Statement.

               (d) Conditions Precedent to Registration. Anything in this
Section 1 to the contrary notwithstanding, the company shall not be obliged to
include among the securities covered by a Registration Statement any Shares
requested to be so included pursuant to Section 1(a) or file a Registration
Statement pursuant to Section 1(b) unless the Holder shall theretofore have
furnished the Company, in writing, all information with respect to the Holder,
the Shares requested to be so included, the transaction or transactions which
the Holder contemplates and each underwriter who will act in connection
therewith, if any, which any law, rule or regulation requires to be disclosed
therein. In addition, the obligations of the Company hereunder are subject to
and conditioned upon the Holder's providing such other information and taking
such action as may reasonably by the Company in connection with such
registration.

               (e) Expenses. All reasonable out-of-pocket expense, disbursement
and fees incurred by the Company in connection with any action to be taken under
Section 1(b) (including the reasonable fees and expenses of any counsel and
accountants engaged by the Company and any underwriter's commissions or expenses
or transfer taxes) shall be borne by the Holder. If Holder requests that Shares
be included in a Registration Statement pursuant to Section 1(a), the Holder
shall be responsible for any fees paid in respect of such Share to the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc., any securities exchange on which the share are listed and to any
state in which the Shares are


                                      -4-
<PAGE>
registered, together with all underwriting discounts and commissions applicable
to such Shares.

                         (f)  Indemnification.

                              (i)  The Company shall indemnify and hold
harmless the [ILLEGIBLE] and each person, if any, who controls the Holder within
the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and each director, officer,
employee or agent of the Holder from and against any loss, claim, damage,
expense, cost or liability, joint or several, and any action in respect thereof,
to which the Holder, controlling person, director, officer, employee or agent
may become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense,
cost or action arises out of, or is based upon, any untrue statement or alleged
untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or
any Prospectus filed by the Company pursuant to this Agreement (the
"Registration Statement" and the "Prospectus") or in any amendment or supplement
thereto, or which arises out of, or is based upon, the omission to state therein
a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the
statements, therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made,
not misleading, and shall promptly reimburse the Holder and each such
controlling person, director, officer, employee or agent for legal and other
expenses reasonably incurred, as such legal and other expenses are incurred, by
the Holder or controlling person, director, officer, employee or agent in
investigating or defending or preparing to defend against any such loss, claim,
damage, liability, expense, cost or action; provided that the Company shall not
be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage,
liability, expense, cost or action arises out of, or is based upon, any untrue
statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in
the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement
thereto in reliance upon and in conformity with written information specifically
relating to the Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of the Holder
specifically for inclusion therein; and provided further that this indemnity
shall not inure to the benefit of the Holder, any person controlling the Holder
or any director, officer, employee or agent of the Holder on account of any
loss, claim, damage, liability, expense, cost or action arising from the sale of
Shares to any person by the Holder if the Holder or the Holder's agent failed to
send or deliver a copy of the Prospectus with or prior to the delivery of
written confirmation of the sale of Shares by the Holder to the person asserting
such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense cost or action who purchased Shares
that are the subject thereof from the Holder, and such delivery would have
eliminated such loss, claim, damage,


                                      -5-
<PAGE>
liability, expense, cost or action, unless such failure resulted from
non-compliance by the Company with the first sentence of Section 1(c) hereof.
The foregoing indemnity agreement is in addition to any liability which the
Company may otherwise have to the Holder or any controlling person, director,
officer, employee or agent of the Holder. The Company shall also indemnify
underwriters, selling brokers, dealer managers and similar securities industry
professionals participating in the distribution (as described in the
Registration Statement), their officers and directors and each person who
controls such person (within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20
of the Exchange Act) to the same extent as provided above with respect to the
indemnification of the Holder if required by the Holder.

                  (ii) The Holder shall indemnify and hold harmless the
Company, any person who controls the Company and each director, officer,
employee or agent of the Company from and against any loss, claim, damage,
expense, cost or liability and any action in respect thereof, to which the
Company or any such controlling person, director, officer, employee or agent may
become subject, insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense, cost or
action arises out of, or is based upon, any untrue statement or alleged untrue
statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement or the
Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or which arises out of, or
is based upon, the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact
necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstance
under which they were made, not misleading, but in each case only to the extent
that the untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged
omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information
specifically relating to the Holder furnished to the Company by or on behalf of
the Holder specifically for inclusion therein, and shall reimburse the Company
or any such controlling person, director, officer employee or agent for any
legal and other expenses reasonably incurred, as such legal and other expenses
incurred, by the Company or any such controlling person, director, officer,
employee or agent in investigating or defending or preparing to defend against
any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense cost or action. The foregoing
indemnity agreement is in addition to any liability which the Holder may
otherwise have to the Company or any of its controlling persons, directors,
officers, employees or agents. The Company shall be entitled to receive
indemnities from underwriters, selling brokers, dealer managers and selling
securities industry professional participating in the distribution, to the same
extent as provided above with respect to information so furnished in writing by
such persons specifically for inclusion in the Registration Statement or the
Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto.

                                      -6-
<PAGE>
          (iii) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this
Section 1(f) of notice of any claim or the commencement of any action
(including, without limitation, any governmental investigation or inquiry), the
indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against
the indemnifying party under this Section 1(f) notify the indemnifying party in
writing of the claim or the commencement of the action, provided that the
failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve if from any
liability which it may have to any indemnified party under this Section 1(f)
except to the extent that it has been prejudiced in any material respect by
such failure or from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party
otherwise that under this Section 1(f). If any such claim or action shall be
brought against an indemnified party, and it shall notify the indemnifying
party thereof, the indemnifying party shall be entitled to participate therein,
and, to the extent that it wishes, to assume the defense thereof with counsel
reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party. After notice from the
indemnifying party to the indemnified party of its election to assume the
defense of such claim or action, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to
the indemnified party under this Section 1(f) for any legal or other expenses
subsequently incurred by the indemnified party in connection with the defense
thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation; provided that an
indemnified party shall have the right to employ counsel to represent it and
its respective controlling persons, directors, officers, employees or agents
who may be subject to liability arising out of any claim in respect of which
indemnity may be sought by such indemnified party against such indemnifying
party under this Section 1(f) if the employment of such counsel shall have been
authorized in writing by such indemnifying party in connection with the defense
of such action, or the indemnifying party shall not have promptly employed
counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to assume the defense
of such action, or if counsel for any of the indemnified parties shall have
reasonably concluded that there may be defenses available to the indemnified
party and its respective controlling persons, directors, officers, employees or
agents which are in conflict with those available to the indemnifying party,
and in that event the reasonable fees and expenses of one firm of separate
counsel for the indemnified party and all such other indemnified persons (in
addition to the reasonable fees and expenses of local counsel in each
jurisdiction) shall be paid by the indemnifying party.

               (iv) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 1(f)
shall for any reason be unavailable to any indemnified party under Section
1(f)(i) or 1(f)(ii) hereof in respect of any loss, claim, damage, expense, cost
or liability, or any action in respect thereof, referred to therein, then each



                                      -7-
<PAGE>
indemnifying party shall, in lien of indemnifying such indemnified party,
contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result
of such loss, claim, damage, expense, cost or liability, or action in respect
thereof, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of
the Company on the one hand and the Holder on the other with respect to the
statements or omissions which resulted in such loss, claim, damage, expense,
cost or liability, or action in respect thereof, as well as any other relevant
equitable considerations. The relative fault shall be determined by reference
to whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or
omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information
supplied by the Company on the one hand or the Holder on the other, the intent
of the parties and their relative knowledge, access to information and
opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The amount paid
or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the loss, claim, damage,
expense, cost or liability, or action in respect thereof, referred to above in
this Section 1(f)(iv) shall be deemed to include, for purposes of this Section
1(f)(iv), any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified
party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim.
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section
11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not
guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. If an indemnifying party assumes
the defense of any action, such indemnifying party may not settle any such
action without the written consent of the indemnified party unless such
settlement includes a complete release of the indemnified party in respect of
all claims made against such indemnified party.

     (v) The agreements contained in this Section 1(f) shall survive the sale
of Shares and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any
termination or cancellation of this Agreements or any investigation made by or
on behalf of any indemnified party.

     (q) Listing of Shares. At any time as any shares of Common Stock are
listed on a national securities exchange or designated as a national market
system security by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
("NASD"), or otherwise listed on the NASD automated quotation system, and a
Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 1(a) or (b) has been declared
effective, the Company will promptly obtain and maintain the approval for
listing of each such exchange or system, as the case may be, of the Shares
included in such Registration Statement.

     (h) Excluded Shares. Any Shares shall be cease to be entitled to the
benefits of the provisions of this Section 1



                                      -8-
<PAGE>
when (i) a Registration Statement covering such Shares has been declared
effective and they have been disposed of pursuant to such effective
Registration Statement, (ii) they are distributed to the public pursuant to
Rule 144 or Rule 144A under the Act, or (iii) they have been otherwise
transferred by the Holder.

                    (i) Holdback. The Holder agrees, to the extent required
by applicable law, not to effect any public sale or distribution of Shares, or
any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for such Shares,
during the five business days prior to, and during the 90 day person following,
the effective date of any Registration Statement including Shares (except as
part of such registration), if and to the extent timely notified in writing by
the Company, in the case of a non-underwritten public offering, or by the
managing underwriter, in the case of an underwritten public offering. The
Company agrees not to effect any public sale or distribution of Common Stock,
any securities similar to the Shares, or convertible into or exchangeable or
exercisable for such securities during the five business days prior to, and
during the 90 day period following, the effective date of any Registration
Statement in which the Holder is participating pursuant to Section 1 (except as
part of such registration and except pursuant to a registration on Form S-4 or
Form S-8, or any successor to such forms) and that any agreement entered into
after the date hereof pursuant to which the Company issues or agrees to issue
any privately placed securities similar to those being registered shall contain
a provision under which holders of such securities agree not to effect any
public sale or distribution of any such securities during the periods described
in the prior sentence, in each case including a sale pursuant to Rule 144 or
144A under the Act (except as part of any such registration, if permitted).

                    (j) Other Covenants of the Company. In connection with
the sale of any Shares the Company shall:

                        (i) use its reasonable best effectors to comply with
all applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
and make available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable,
an earnings statement covering the period of at least twelve months, but not
more than eighteen months, beginning with the first day of the Company's first
fiscal quarter after the effective date of any Registration Statement, which
earnings statements shall satisfy the provisions of Section 12(a) of the Act;

                        (ii) provide a transfer agent and registrar for all
Shares covered by each Registration Statement not later than the effective date
of such registration statement;


                                      -9-
<PAGE>
                 (iii) enter into such agreements (including an underwriting
agreement in customary form) and take such other actions as the Holder shall
reasonably request in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of Shares;


                 (iv) use its reasonable best efforts to obtain an opinion from
the Company's counsel and a "cold comfort" letter from the Company's independent
public accountants in customary form and covering such matters of the type
customarily covered by such opinions and "cold comfort" letters as the Holder
shall reasonably request;

                 (v) make available for inspection by the Holder, by each
underwriter participating in any disposition to be affected pursuant to such
registration statement and by any attorney, accountant or other agent retained
by the Holder or any such underwriter, all pertinent financial and other
records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company, and cause
all of the Company's officers, directors and employees to supply all information
reasonably requested by the Holder or any such underwriter, attorney, accountant
or agent in connection with such registration statement; provided, however, that
Holder or any underwriter to whom such information is disclose shall in writing
agree to use information furnished solely in connection with the contemplated
public offering of Shares; and

                 (vi) permit the holder to participate in the preparation of
each Registration Statement and include therein material, furnished to the
Company in writing, which in the judgment of the Holder, subject to the consent
of the Company (which shall not be unreasonably withheld), should be included.

        2. Assignment; Binding Effect. This Agreement shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and
assigns.

        3. Entire Agreement; Modification. This Agreement constitutes the entire
agreement of the parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all
prior or contemporaneous understandings, negotiations and agreements of the
parties concerning such subject matter. This Agreement may be modified only in a
writing signed by the parties hereto specifically stating an intent to modify
this Agreement.

        4. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and
interpreted in accordance with the substantive laws of the State of New York
applicable to contracts made and to be performed within that State, without
giving effect to conflicts of laws principles.


                                      -10-

<PAGE>

          5. Notice. Any notice, request or other communication required or
permitted to be given pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and shall
be (a) mailed by U.S. Express Mail or U.S. Certified Mail, in either case
Return Receipt Requested, (b) delivered by recognized overnight courier such as
Federal Express, or (c) hand delivered to the party to whom addressed at the
following addresses:

     if to the Company,  UTI Energy Corp.
                         Suite 112, 485 Devon Park Drive
                         Wayne, PA 19087

                         Attn: Vaughn Drum, President;

     with a copy to:     Montgomery, McCracken, Walker & Rhoads
                         Three Parkway - 20th Floor
                         Philadelphia, PA. 19102

                         Attn: Baldo M. Carnecchia, Jr., Esquire

     if to the Holder,   Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc.
                         245 Park Avenue
                         New York, NY 10147

                         Attn: Richard Matrick;

     with a copy to:     Weil, Gotshal & Manges
                         767 Fifth Avenue
                         New York, NY 10153

                         Attn: Dennis J. Block, Esquire;

or at such other address as may be designated by a party in writing. All
written communications shall be deemed effective upon the earlier of the actual
receipt thereof by the addresses or the expiration of two business days from
the date such communication is placed in the hands of the post office, a
recognized overnight courier, or a messenger service.




                                      -11-
<PAGE>
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by the parties the
day and year first above written.

                                   UTI ENERGY CORP.


                                   By:
                                      -----------------------------------------
                                        SVP



                                   BEAR, STEARNS & CO. INC.


                                   By:
                                      -----------------------------------------




                                      -12-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.9
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>d94131ex10-9.txt
<DESCRIPTION>STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT - KENNETH R. PEAK
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.9

                           PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.

                             STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT


                  This Agreement (the "Agreement") is made as of July 20, 2001,
between Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
Kenneth R. Peak (the "Optionee") a non-employee director of the Company. The
Company hereby grants Optionee an option (the "Option") to purchase Twelve
Thousand (12,000) shares of the Company's common stock, $.01 par value (the
"Common Stock"), for a purchase price (the "Option Price") of $28.625 per share
of Common Stock. The Option shall be subject to the following provisions:

                  1. TERM AND VESTING. Subject to the provisions of this
Agreement, including but not limited to paragraph 6 hereof, this Option may be
exercised in blocks of 100 shares or any multiple thereof after the date of this
Agreement and prior to 5:00 p.m., Snyder, Texas time, on November 5, 2005,
("Expiration Date") but not thereafter, in accordance with the following:

                  (a) On November 6, 2001, this Option may be exercised for up
                  to 100% of the Common Stock covered hereby.

                  2. METHOD OF EXERCISE. Exercise of this Option shall be
affected by the Optionee giving written notice (in substantially the form
attached hereto as Exhibit A, whose covenants and substantive provisions are
hereby made a part of this Agreement) to the Company which shall:

                  (a) state that the Option is thereby being exercised, the
                  number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the
                  Option is being exercised, each person in whose name any
                  certificates for the Common Stock should be registered and his
                  address and social security number;

                  (b) be signed by the person or persons entitled to exercise
                  the Option and, if the Option is being exercised by anyone
                  other than the Optionee, be accompanied by proof satisfactory
                  to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or
                  persons to exercise the Option under this Agreement and all
                  applicable laws and regulations; and

                  (c) be accompanied by such representations, warranties or
                  agreements with respect to the investment intent of such
                  person or persons exercising the Option as the Company may
                  reasonably request in form and substance satisfactory to
                  counsel for the Company.

                  3. PAYMENT OF PRICE. Upon exercise of the Option, the Company
shall deliver a certificate or certificates for such Common Stock to the
specified person or persons at the specified time upon receipt of the full
purchase price for such Common Stock.

<PAGE>

                  4. TRANSFERABILITY. The Option shall not be transferable or
assignable by the Optionee other than by will or the laws of descent and
distribution. The Option shall be exercisable (subject to any other applicable
restrictions on exercise) only by the Optionee for his own account, except in
the events of the death or disability of the Optionee, in either of which events
the Option shall be exercisable (subject to any other applicable restrictions on
exercise) only by the Optionee's estate (acting through its fiduciary) or by the
Optionee's duly authorized legal representative or by the successor or
successors in interest determined under the Optionee's will or under the
applicable laws of descent and distribution, respectively.

                  5. RESTRICTIONS ON EXERCISE. As a condition of any exercise of
the Option, the Company may require the Optionee or his successor to make any
representation and warranty to comply with any applicable law or regulation or
to confirm any factual matters reasonably requested by counsel for the Company.

                  6. EARLY TERMINATION OF OPTION. If an Optionee's term as a
director of the Company shall terminate for any reason other than the Optionee's
death or disability, the Option, to the extent then exercisable under the terms
of this Agreement shall remain exercisable after the termination of the
Optionee's director status for a period of three months. If the Optionee's
director status is terminated because the Optionee dies or becomes disabled
within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"), the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full
and shall remain exercisable after the termination of his directorship for a
period of twelve months. If the Option is not exercised during the applicable
period, it shall be deemed to have been forfeited and of no further force or
effect.

                  7. TAXES. The Optionee hereby agrees to pay to the Company any
federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with
respect to the Option granted hereunder. If the Optionee does not make such
payment to the Company, the Company shall have the right to deduct from any
payment of any kind otherwise due to the Optionee from the Company, any federal,
state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to
the Option or the Common Stock to be purchased by the Optionee under this
Agreement. The Option shall not be treated as an incentive stock option under
Section 422 or any successor section thereto of the Code.

                  8. INVESTMENT REPRESENTATION. The Optionee agrees that any
Common Stock of the Company which the Optionee may acquire by virtue of this
Option shall be acquired for investment purposes only and not with a view to
distribution or resale, and may not be transferred, sold, assigned, pledged,
hypothecated or otherwise disposed of by the Optionee unless (i) a registration
statement or post-effective amendment to a registration statement under the
Securities Act of 1933 as amended (the "Securities Act"), with respect to said
Common Stock has become effective so as to permit the sale or other disposition
of said shares by the Optionee; or (ii) there is presented to the Company an
opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Company to the effect that the sale or
other proposed disposition of said shares by the Optionee may lawfully be made
otherwise than pursuant to an effective registration statement or post-effective
amendment to a registration statement relating to the said shares under the
Securities Act.

<PAGE>

                  9. CONSENT TO JURISDICTION. The Optionee hereby consents to
the jurisdiction of the state court of general jurisdiction sitting in Scurry
County, Texas.

                  10. NO RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER Except as expressly provided in
this Agreement, an Optionee shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect
to any shares of Common Stock subject to the Option prior to the exercise of
such Option and the transfer of Common Stock to the Optionee.

                  11. CHANGE IN CONTROL Upon the occurrence of a Change of
Control (as defined below), notwithstanding any other provisions hereof or of
any agreement to the contrary, the Option granted under this Agreement shall
vest and become immediately exercisable in full and remain exercisable under the
terms of this Agreement.

                  A Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred if: (i) a
tender offer shall be made and consummated for the ownership of 25% or more of
the outstanding voting securities of the Company; (ii) the Company shall be
merged or consolidated with another corporation and, as a result of such merger
or consolidation, less than 25% of the outstanding voting securities of the
surviving or resulting corporation shall be owned in the aggregate by the former
stockholders of the Company as the same shall have existed immediately prior to
such merger or consolidation; or (iii) the Company shall sell substantially all
of its assets to another corporation which is not a wholly owned subsidiary; or
(iv) a person, within the meaning of Section 3(a)(9) or of Section 13(d)(3) (as
in effect on the date hereof) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
"Exchange Act"), shall acquire, other than by reason of inheritance, 25% or more
of the outstanding voting securities of the Company (whether directly,
indirectly, beneficially or of record). In making any such determination,
transfers made by a person to an affiliate of such person (as determined by the
Board of Directors of the Company), whether by gift, devise or otherwise, shall
not be taken into account. Ownership of voting securities shall take into
account and shall include ownership as determined by applying the provisions of
Rule 13d-3(d)(1)(i) as in effect on the date hereof pursuant to the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

                  12. ADJUSTMENTS FOR STOCK SPLIT; STOCK DIVIDEND, ETC. If, at
any time subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, the number of
shares of Common Stock is increased or decreased, or changed into or exchanged
for a different number or kind of shares of stock or other securities of the
Company or of another corporation (whether as a result of a stock split, stock
dividend, combination or exchange of shares, exchange for other securities,
reclassification, reorganization, redesignation, merger, consolidation,
recapitalization or otherwise): (i) there shall automatically be substituted for
each share subject to an unexercised Option (in whole or in part) granted under
this Agreement, the number and kind of shares of stock or other securities into
which each outstanding share shall be changed or for which each such share shall
be exchanged; and (ii) the Option Price per share or unit of securities shall be
increased or decreased proportionately so that the aggregate purchase price for
the securities subject to the Option shall remain the same as immediately prior
to such event. In addition to the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled in
the event of any such increase, decrease or exchange of shares to make other
adjustments to the securities subject to the Option, and this Agreement
(including adjustments which may provide for the elimination of fractional
shares), where


<PAGE>

necessary to preserve the terms and conditions of any grants hereunder.
Adjustments under this section shall be made by the Committee, whose
determinations with regard thereto shall be final and binding upon all parties
to this Agreement.

                                 PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.:


                                 By:
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                     Cloyce A. Talbott, Chief Executive Officer



                                 OPTIONEE:


DATE OF GRANT:  July 20, 2001    ----------------------------------------------
                                 Kenneth R. Peak



<PAGE>



                                    EXHIBIT A

                            EXERCISE OF STOCK OPTION



Patterson Energy, Inc.
4510 Lamesa Highway
P.O. Drawer 1416
Snyder, TX 79549

Gentlemen:

         The undersigned Optionee,     , hereby exercises the Option granted to
him pursuant to the Stock Option Agreement dated as of July 20, 2001 between
Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. and the Optionee with respect to ________________
Common Shares covered by said Option, and tenders herewith $_________ in payment
of the purchase price thereof by delivery of _____________________.

         The name and registered address on such certificate should be:


                      ------------------------------------

                      ------------------------------------

                      ------------------------------------

         The Optionee's social security number is:                   .
                                                  -------------------


                                    ------------------------------------------
                                    Optionee-



Dated:
       ----------------------


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.10
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>d94131ex10-10.txt
<DESCRIPTION>STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT - STEPHEN J. DEGROAT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.10

                           PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.

                             STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT


                  This Agreement (the "Agreement") is made as of July 20, 2001,
between Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and
Stephen J. DeGroat (the "Optionee") a non-employee director of the Company. The
Company hereby grants Optionee an option (the "Option") to purchase Twelve
Thousand (12,000) shares of the Company's common stock, $.01 par value (the
"Common Stock"), for a purchase price (the "Option Price") of $28.625 per share
of Common Stock. The Option shall be subject to the following provisions:

                  1. TERM AND VESTING. Subject to the provisions of this
Agreement, including but not limited to paragraph 6 hereof, this Option may be
exercised in blocks of 100 shares or any multiple thereof after the date of this
Agreement and prior to 5:00 p.m., Snyder, Texas time, on November 5, 2005,
("Expiration Date") but not thereafter, in accordance with the following:

                  (a) On November 6, 2001, this Option may be exercised for up
                  to 100% of the Common Stock covered hereby.

                  2. METHOD OF EXERCISE. Exercise of this Option shall be
affected by the Optionee giving written notice (in substantially the form
attached hereto as Exhibit A, whose covenants and substantive provisions are
hereby made a part of this Agreement) to the Company which shall:

                  (a) state that the Option is thereby being exercised, the
                  number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the
                  Option is being exercised, each person in whose name any
                  certificates for the Common Stock should be registered and his
                  address and social security number;

                  (b) be signed by the person or persons entitled to exercise
                  the Option and, if the Option is being exercised by anyone
                  other than the Optionee, be accompanied by proof satisfactory
                  to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or
                  persons to exercise the Option under this Agreement and all
                  applicable laws and regulations; and

                  (c) be accompanied by such representations, warranties or
                  agreements with respect to the investment intent of such
                  person or persons exercising the Option as the Company may
                  reasonably request in form and substance satisfactory to
                  counsel for the Company.

                  3. PAYMENT OF PRICE. Upon exercise of the Option, the Company
shall deliver a certificate or certificates for such Common Stock to the
specified person or persons at the specified time upon receipt of the full
purchase price for such Common Stock.


<PAGE>

                  4. TRANSFERABILITY. The Option shall not be transferable or
assignable by the Optionee other than by will or the laws of descent and
distribution. The Option shall be exercisable (subject to any other applicable
restrictions on exercise) only by the Optionee for his own account, except in
the events of the death or disability of the Optionee, in either of which events
the Option shall be exercisable (subject to any other applicable restrictions on
exercise) only by the Optionee's estate (acting through its fiduciary) or by the
Optionee's duly authorized legal representative or by the successor or
successors in interest determined under the Optionee's will or under the
applicable laws of descent and distribution.

                  5. RESTRICTIONS ON EXERCISE. As a condition of any exercise of
the Option, the Company may require the Optionee or his successor to make any
representation and warranty to comply with any applicable law or regulation or
to confirm any factual matters reasonably requested by counsel for the Company.

                  6. EARLY TERMINATION OF OPTION. If an Optionee's term as a
director of the Company shall terminate for any reason other than the Optionee's
death or disability, the Option, to the extent then exercisable under the terms
of this Agreement shall remain exercisable after the termination of the
Optionee's director status for a period of three months. If the Optionee's
director status is terminated because the Optionee dies or becomes disabled
within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"), the Option shall become immediately exercisable in full
and shall remain exercisable after the termination of his directorship for a
period of twelve months. If the Option is not exercised during the applicable
period, it shall be deemed to have been forfeited and of no further force or
effect.

                  7. TAXES. The Optionee hereby agrees to pay to the Company any
federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with
respect to the Option granted hereunder. If the Optionee does not make such
payment to the Company, the Company shall have the right to deduct from any
payment of any kind otherwise due to the Optionee from the Company, any federal,
state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to
the Option or the Common Stock to be purchased by the Optionee under this
Agreement. The Option shall not be treated as an incentive stock option under
Section 422 or any successor section thereto of the Code.

                  8. INVESTMENT REPRESENTATION. The Optionee agrees that any
Common Stock of the Company which the Optionee may acquire by virtue of this
Option shall be acquired for investment purposes only and not with a view to
distribution or resale, and may not be transferred, sold, assigned, pledged,
hypothecated or otherwise disposed of by the Optionee unless (i) a registration
statement or post-effective amendment to a registration statement under the
Securities Act of 1933 as amended (the "Securities Act"), with respect to said
Common Stock has become effective so as to permit the sale or other disposition
of said shares by the Optionee; or (ii) there is presented to the Company an
opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Company to the effect that the sale or
other proposed disposition of said shares by the Optionee may lawfully be made
otherwise than pursuant to an effective registration statement or post-effective
amendment to a registration statement relating to the said shares under the
Securities Act.

<PAGE>

                  9. CONSENT TO JURISDICTION. The Optionee hereby consents to
the jurisdiction of the state court of general jurisdiction sitting in Scurry
County, Texas.

                  10. NO RIGHTS AS A STOCKHOLDER Except as expressly provided in
this Agreement, an Optionee shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect
to any shares of Common Stock subject to the Option prior to the exercise of
such Option and the transfer of Common Stock to the Optionee.

                  11. CHANGE IN CONTROL Upon the occurrence of a Change of
Control (as defined below), notwithstanding any other provisions hereof or of
any agreement to the contrary, the Option granted under this Agreement shall
vest and become immediately exercisable in full and remain exercisable under the
terms of this Agreement.

                  A Change of Control shall be deemed to have occurred if: (i) a
tender offer shall be made and consummated for the ownership of 25% or more of
the outstanding voting securities of the Company; (ii) the Company shall be
merged or consolidated with another corporation and, as a result of such merger
or consolidation, less than 25% of the outstanding voting securities of the
surviving or resulting corporation shall be owned in the aggregate by the former
stockholders of the Company as the same shall have existed immediately prior to
such merger or consolidation; or (iii) the Company shall sell substantially all
of its assets to another corporation which is not a wholly owned subsidiary; or
(iv) a person, within the meaning of Section 3(a)(9) or of Section 13(d)(3) (as
in effect on the date hereof) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
"Exchange Act"), shall acquire, other than by reason of inheritance, 25% or more
of the outstanding voting securities of the Company (whether directly,
indirectly, beneficially or of record). In making any such determination,
transfers made by a person to an affiliate of such person (as determined by the
Board of Directors of the Company), whether by gift, devise or otherwise, shall
not be taken into account. Ownership of voting securities shall take into
account and shall include ownership as determined by applying the provisions of
Rule 13d-3(d)(1)(i) as in effect on the date hereof pursuant to the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

                  12. ADJUSTMENTS FOR STOCK SPLIT; STOCK DIVIDEND, ETC. If, at
any time subsequent to the effective date of this Agreement, the number of
shares of Common Stock is increased or decreased, or changed into or exchanged
for a different number or kind of shares of stock or other securities of the
Company or of another corporation (whether as a result of a stock split, stock
dividend, combination or exchange of shares, exchange for other securities,
reclassification, reorganization, redesignation, merger, consolidation,
recapitalization or otherwise): (i) there shall automatically be substituted for
each share subject to an unexercised Option (in whole or in part) granted under
this Agreement, the number and kind of shares of stock or other securities into
which each outstanding share shall be changed or for which each such share shall
be exchanged; and (ii) the Option Price per share or unit of securities shall be
increased or decreased proportionately so that the aggregate purchase price for
the securities subject to the Option shall remain the same as immediately prior
to such event. In addition to the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled in
the event of any such increase, decrease or exchange of shares to make other
adjustments to the securities subject to the Option, and this Agreement


<PAGE>

(including adjustments which may provide for the elimination of fractional
shares), where necessary to preserve the terms and conditions of any grants
hereunder. Adjustments under this section shall be made by the Committee, whose
determinations with regard thereto shall be final and binding upon all parties
to this Agreement.

                                 PATTERSON-UTI ENERGY, INC.:


                                 By:
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                     Cloyce A. Talbott, Chief Executive Officer



                                 OPTIONEE:


DATE OF GRANT:  July 20, 2001    ----------------------------------------------
                                 Stephen J. DeGroat



<PAGE>



                                    EXHIBIT A

                            EXERCISE OF STOCK OPTION



Patterson Energy, Inc.
4510 Lamesa Highway
P.O. Drawer 1416
Snyder, TX 79549

Gentlemen:

          The undersigned Optionee,      , hereby exercises the Option granted
to him pursuant to the Stock Option Agreement dated as of July 20, 2001 between
Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. and the Optionee with respect to ________________
Common Shares covered by said Option, and tenders herewith $_________ in payment
of the purchase price thereof by delivery of _____________________.

         The name and registered address on such certificate should be:

                      ------------------------------------

                      ------------------------------------

                      ------------------------------------

         The Optionee's social security number is:                    .
                                                  -------------------

                                 ----------------------------------------------
                                 Optionee-



Dated:
       ----------------------



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>d94131ex21-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1

                         Subsidiaries of the Registrant


Patterson (GP) LLC
Patterson (GP2) LLC
Patterson (LP) LLC
Patterson-UTI Drilling Company LP, LLLP
Patterson-UTI Drilling Company South LP, LLLP
Patterson-UTI Drilling Company West LP, LLLP
Patterson Petroleum LP, LLLP
Lone Star Mud LP, LLLP
Ambar Drilling Fluids LP, LLLP
Patterson Petroleum Trading Company LP, LLLP
Analytical Seismic Systems, Inc.
UTICO, Inc.
SUITS Drilling Company
UTI Management Services, L.P.
UTI Drilling, L.P.
UTICO Hard Rock Boring, Inc.
International Petroleum Service Company
Universal Well Services, Inc.
Norton Drilling Services, Inc.
Norton Drilling Mexico
Norton Drilling, L.P.
Norton GP, L.L.C.
Phelps Drilling Co.
UTI Drilling Canada, Inc.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>d94131ex23-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1

                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (No.'s 333-47917 and 33-39471, 333-67810, 333-60470, and
333-60466) and in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-53336,
333-44932, 333-34018, 333-89885) of Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. and subsidiaries
of our report dated January 28, 2002 relating to the financial statements and
financial statement schedule, which appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

                                       /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Fort Worth, Texas
March 15, 2002

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.2
<SEQUENCE>12
<FILENAME>d94131ex23-2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.2

                         CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on
Form S-8 (Nos. 333-47917, 33-39471, 333-67810, 333-60470, and 333-60466) and in
the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-53336, 333-44932, 333-34018,
and 333-89885) of Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. and subsidiaries of our report
dated February 16, 2001, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year
ended December 31, 2001, with respect to the consolidated financial statements
and schedule of UTI Energy Corp. as of December 31, 2000 and for the two years
in the period ended December 31, 2000 (not presented separately therein).


                                                     /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Houston, Texas
March 15, 2002



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
