Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  As of March 21, 2003, Postabank owned 20.0% of the outstanding Common Stock and 30.8% of the outstanding Common Stock on a fully diluted basis. For a more detailed description of some of the Postabank Agreements, see Notes 5 and 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and see also Item 12 “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.”  Directors and Executive Officer  The current directors and executive officer of the Company are Ole Bertram, a Company director and the Company’s President and Chief Executive Officer; Daryl A. Ferguson, a Company director and the retired President and Chief Operating Officer of Citizens; Thomas Gelting, a Company director and a Vice-President in the Corporate Business Development department at TDC; Torben V. Holm, a Company director and the head of the Corporate Business Development department at TDC; John B. Ryan, a Company director and a financial consultant; William E. Starkey, a Company director and a retired Senior Executive with GTE Corporation; and Leonard Tow, a Company director and currently the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Citizens.  The Operating Areas  The following is a brief description of each of the Operating Areas:  Bekes  The Bekes Operating Area encompasses the southern portion of Bekes County, which borders Romania. The Bekes Operating Area is comprised of 75 municipalities and has a population of approximately 391,700 with an estimated 166,900 residences and 23,100 business and other potential subscribers (including government institutions). Bekes is the most intensively cultivated agrarian region in Hungary and produces a substantial portion of Hungary’s total wheat production. Industry, generally related to food processing, glass and textile production, is also a strong employer in the region. Foreign investors in the Operating Area include Owens-Illinois of the United States and a number of European manufacturers. The region is also a center for natural gas exploration and production. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had 112,100 access lines connected to its network in the Bekes Operating Area. The Company’s network in the Bekes Operating Area utilizes a combination of a conventional build, fiber optic and wireless local loop technology.  Nograd  The Nograd Operating Area is comprised of 76 municipalities in the eastern portion of Nograd County, which borders Slovakia. The Nograd Operating Area has a population of approximately 147,900, with an estimated 62,400 residences and 8,900 business and other potential subscribers (including government institutions). The principal economic activities in the Nograd Operating Area include light manufacturing, tourism, some coal mining and agriculture. Foreign investors in the region include the Italian-owned dairy producer, Sole, and the German company, Paramount Glass. The Nograd Operating Area’s proximity to Budapest, 1.5 hours by car, and its many cultural attractions makes it a desirable weekend and tourist destination. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had 46,500 access lines connected to its network in the Nograd Operating Area. The Company’s network in the   8  Nograd Operating Area utilizes a combination of a conventional build, fiber optic and wireless local loop technology.  Papa/Sarvar  The Papa/Sarvar Operating Area is composed of 114 municipalities located in the counties of  Veszprem and Vas. The population of the Papa/Sarvar Operating Area is approximately 128,400 with an estimated 50,300 residences and 6,500 business and other potential subscribers (including government institutions). The portion of the Papa/Sarvar Operating Area in Veszprem County is relatively underdeveloped economically with the principal economic activities centering around light industry, appliance manufacturing, agriculture and forest products. Significant foreign investors in Veszprem County include ATAG, the Dutch appliance maker, and Electricité de France. The principal economic activities in the portion of the Papa/Sarvar Operating Area located in Vas County include heavy manufacturing and assembling, agriculture and tourism. Significant employers include: Linde (a German natural gas distributor); Flextronics (an electronics components assembler); and Saga (a British-owned poultry processor). As of December 31, 2002, the Papa/Sarvar Operating Area had 41,900 access lines connected to its network. The Company’s network in the Papa/Sarvar Operating Area utilizes a combination of a conventional build, fiber optic and wireless local loop technology.  Network Design and Performance  The Company has constructed a versatile modern communications network which substantially replaced the antiquated system purchased from Matav. This system provides many of the technologically advanced services currently available in the United States and Western Europe. The Company’s networks maintain the North American standard, or “P01”, grade of service. The P01 standard means that one call out of 100 will be blocked in the busiest hour of the busiest season. The Company believes that its ability to meet the telecommunications requirements of its customers through a combination of conventional fiber optic and wireless local loop technology affords it significant flexibility with respect to network development and network capital expenditures. The Company has replaced all manually operated local battery and common battery cord type switchboards purchased from Matav while retaining certain analog switching systems. The Company upgraded such analog switching systems allowing such systems to mimic many of the features available in modern digital switching systems with a minimal investment.   Conventional Network Design  In developing its networks, the Company has implemented service quality and redundancy objectives on par with Western European and North American digital network standards. Certain of the networks constructed are based on digital hosts and remotes with fiber optic rings and copper feeder and distribution. Such a distribution system is the conventional system used in the United States and Western Europe. Telecommunications services are transmitted to the home through twisted pair copper wire telephone cable.  The Company’s conventional networks have been designed to employ an open architecture, generally using Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (“SDH”) technology for system resilience. The Company’s networks are designed to provide voice and high speed data services. The Company believes that the flexible design of the conventional networks it has constructed allows it to readily implement new technologies and provide enhanced or new services. The Company’s switches in its conventional networks allow it to connect to networks operated by other LTOs, Matav or PanTel in order to route voice and data transmissions.  Wireless Network Design  In certain portions of the Operating Areas, the Company is using wireless network technology based upon the Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications (“DECT”) system which interfaces radio technology to fiber-optic, digital microwave or fixed copper networks. The use of DECT technology generally reduces the time and expense of installation and securing rights of way. In a conventional network build, significant investment must be made in order to offer service to a large proportion of potential customers whether or not they become actual customers. By contrast, the use of the DECT system in a network build-out provides for capital investment proportional to the number of customers actually connected because the radio links and other required equipment are installed only for those households choosing to take the service and are installed only at the time service is requested.   9  In many areas in which the Company is utilizing a wireless network design, the Company is deploying a fiber optic cable to the node in the same fashion as in a conventional network build-out. At each newly constructed node, the Company has constructed a radio base station (“RBS”), rather than switching to twisted pair copper wire distribution to the home. Each RBS has the capacity to provide service to between 200 and 600 customers. As additional customers are brought onto the network, the Company will install a transceiver unit at the subscriber’s premises. Such transceiver’s operating software is digitally encrypted so that it will operate only with its supporting RBS. A conventional telephone jack is then installed in the subscriber’s household near an electrical outlet which is used to power the transceiver unit. The subscriber then uses a conventional phone to make outgoing and receive incoming calls.  The DECT-based wireless local loop system provides the same grade of service as a conventional telephone network. In addition, a DECT-based network is able to provide the same services as a conventional copper network such as voice mail, call forwarding and call barring.   Network Administration  The Company actively monitors the switching centers and all critical network operational parameters in each Operating Area. As digital features are introduced into their respective networks, the network technicians have the ability to monitor the networks and evaluate and respond accordingly. The Company will also be able to analyze the performance data generated by these systems in order to make the operating adjustments or capital expenditures necessary to enhance individual network operations.  Services and Pricing  Services  The Company currently provides non-cellular local voice telephone services in its Operating Areas which allow subscribers to have facsimile and modem transmission capabilities. Up until Matav’s exclusivity rights to provide domestic and international long distance services expired at the end of 2001, the Company made domestic and international long distance services available to its subscribers through interconnection with Matav. Following the termination of Matav’s exclusivity rights to provide domestic and international long distance services and until competition among providers of domestic and international long distance services begins in the Company’s markets, the Company is its subscribers’ sole domestic and international long distance services provider. The Company is now responsible not only for the initiation of domestic and international long distance calls by its subscribers but for the transmission and termination of such calls. When the Company does not have the network capacity to carry a long distance call entirely on its own network, it transfers the calls to other telecommunications carriers, including Matav, for completion pursuant to interconnection agreements.   In addition to local, domestic long distance, and international voice services, the Company currently offers its subscribers data transmission and other value-added services, including Internet access, voice mail, Internet Protocol-based voice services for international calls, caller ID, call waiting, call forwarding, three-way calling, toll free calling services and audio text services. The Company is also an Internet Service Provider under the brand name “Globonet”.  The Company’s revenues are primarily derived from the provision of local, domestic long distance and international long distance telephone services which consist of (i) charges for measured telephone service, which vary depending on the day, the time of day, distance and duration of the call, and (ii) connection and subscription fees. The Company also receives other operating revenues consisting principally of charges and fees from leased lines, fees for the provision of Internet Service, detailed billing, other value added services such as voicemail and caller ID and other customer services, including revenues from the sale and lease of telephone equipment. The Company’s customers are on a one-month billing cycle.  Measured Service.  The Company has two basic rates for outgoing calls, peak and off-peak, for each of local and domestic long distance calls and calls to Hungarian cellular phones within Hungary. The rates for outgoing international long distance calls are based solely on the country called and do not depend on the time of day called. The Company has established special rate plans for low usage subscribers which include a lower per month subscription fee and a higher variable fee for measured service. The measured service fee scheme is summarized below.  10  Local Calls  - For all local calls within an Operating Area, the Company retains all of the revenues associated with the call. For local calls, the Company may choose to increase its rates up to the permitted amount or charge a lower rate.   Outgoing Domestic and International Long Distance Calls  – Up until the expiration of Matav’s exclusivity rights to provide domestic and international long distance services at the end of 2001, for all domestic long distance calls outside of an Operating Area and all international calls, the Company had a revenue sharing arrangement with Matav, the terms of which were governed by a governmental decree. Pursuant to this revenue sharing arrangement, the Company charged for and collected from its subscribers the fees which were set by Matav, but subject to regulation, for domestic and international long distance calls. The Company then paid those fees to Matav but retained a regulated per minute interconnection fee for initiating the call.   Following the year-end 2001 expiration of Matav’s exclusivity rights to provide domestic and international long distance services and until the Company’s subscribers get a competitive choice other than Matav for domestic and international long distance services, the Company is the only domestic and international long distance services provider for its subscriber base. As such, the Company is responsible for the entire transmission of its subscribers’ outgoing domestic and international long distance calls. For calls between Operating Areas, the Company has the capability to carry the call from the calling party to the receiving party entirely over its telecommunications network of owned and leased facilities. For such calls the Company keeps the entire revenue collected from its subscribers. For calls initiated in one of the Company’s Operating Areas and terminating outside of one of the Company’s Operating Areas, whether within or outside Hungary, the Company has the authority to determine how to transmit the call outside of its local network. For calls to certain areas within Hungary, the Company has the network capability to deliver the call to the local telecommunications network containing the party receiving the call. In such cases, the Company collects the fee for the domestic long distance call from its subscriber and pays a regulated per minute interconnection termination fee to the telecommunications provider completing the call. Since the Company does not presently have its own nation-wide long distance network or an international network, international calls and certain domestic long distance calls initiated in its Operating Areas have to be transferred to another telecommunications carrier for transmission to the local telecommunications network of the party receiving the call. Therefore, the Company currently has interconnection arrangements in place with certain telecommunications providers with Hungarian nation-wide long distance and international networks (including Matav and PanTel) capable of transmitting international calls and certain domestic long distance calls from the Company’s network to the telecommunications network containing the party receiving the call. In such cases, the Company collects the fee for the domestic or international long distance call from its subscriber. The Company must then pay, directly or indirectly, both a per minute termination fee to the telecommunications provider completing the call and a per minute transmission fee (regulated if to Matav) to the telecommunications provider who transports the call from the Company’s network to the local telecommunications network of the telecommunications provider who completes the call.   When the Communications Act is fully implemented and effective such that competition among providers of domestic and international long distance services begins in the Company’s markets (as it has in certain other markets within Hungary), then the Company’s non-Universal Service subscribers will be able to choose their domestic and international long distance services carrier either on a continuing or call-by-call basis. See “– Summary of the Communications Act – Universal Services - Universal Service Customers and Pricing.”  If one of the Company’s subscribers chooses Matav or another long distance carrier, such carrier will be responsible for billing the Company’s local subscriber for domestic and international long distance charges and paying the Company an interconnection fee for initiating that call. That provider could outsource its billing responsibility to the Company. The Company’s interconnection fees for initiating and terminating domestic and international long distance calls for its local subscribers are regulated by a government-approved interconnection rate scheme. If the Company’s local subscriber chooses the Company as its long distance provider, the Company will bill its local subscriber for long distance calls and the Company must pay, directly or indirectly, a per minute interconnection fee to the telecommunications provider completing the call if the call goes outside of the Company’s network and, if necessary, a per minute interconnection fee to the telecommunications provider who transports the call from the Company’s network to the local telecommunications network of the telecommunications provider who completes the call.  Incoming Domestic and International Long Distance Calls  - For domestic and international long distance calls to the Company’s subscribers, the Company receives a regulated per minute interconnection fee from Matav or other long distance provider for completing the call.   11  Cellular Calls  – The rates for outgoing calls from a Company subscriber to a Hungarian cellular phone are set by the Company but subject to regulation. The Company must pay a per minute fee to the cellular carrier for completing the call. For calls to Pannon and Westel (digital) subscribers, this fee is regulated. For calls to Vodafone and Westel (analog) subscribers, this fee is not regulated but is cost oriented. Until the Company’s networks are fully integrated with all of the cellular carriers’ networks, the Company must pay a fee for transmitting the calls outside of the Company’s Operating Areas to the cellular carriers’ networks.  The price of calls from a Hungarian cellular phone to the Company’s customers are unregulated and set by the cellular carriers. The cellular carriers pay the Company a regulated per minute interconnection fee for completing mobile calls to the Company’s subscribers. See “– Summary of the Communications Act.”  Measured Service Price Regulation . Maximum pricing levels have historically been set by the TTW Ministry (now by the IC Ministry) and such rate increases have generally tracked inflation as measured by the Hungarian Consumer Price Index (“CPI”). In 1997, the TTW Ministry set forth a new regulatory framework for regulating annual increases in the fees for (a) local calls, (b) domestic long distance and international calls and (c) subscription fees, which included a rebalancing formula, which provides for greater increases in charges for subscription fees and local calls than in domestic long distance and international calls. In addition to using the CPI in setting rates, the IC Ministry uses an efficiency factor in calculating the maximum allowable price increase. For 2003, the IC Ministry approved an overall price increase of 6% for local calls and 10% for subscription fees, with such increases subject to the overall price cap determined, in part, by the CPI. The overall price cap, which is expected to be about 2.0% for 2003, covers a basket of telecommunications service fees such as the fees for individual and business subscription packages, local calls, domestic and international long distance calls, mobile calls and the universal service packages. Given the computation of the overall price cap which is set at 2.0% for 2003 and the permitted increase in local calls and subscription fees, other fees may decrease in 2003.   Since 1998 the Ministry (formerly the TTW Ministry and now the IC Ministry) has taken gradual steps to regulate the interconnection fees in accordance with internationally accepted benchmarks with the goal of creating a cost-based interconnection fee regime within the parameters of European Union standards. To that end, starting in 1999, the interconnection fees were revised to compensate the LTOs more favorably for costs than in prior years. The Communications Act provides for the LTOs (including the Company) to be compensated for interconnection initiation and termination fees based on a Reference Interconnection Offer (“RIO”).  The LTOs are responsible for submitting their RIOs to the Communications Authority for approval. In 2002, the Communications Authority approved the currently effective RIOs for all the LTOs. In 2002 the Communications Authority adopted the EU Long Run Incremental Cost model as the standard for interconnection fees beginning in 2003. The Long Run Incremental Cost model is supposed to decrease interconnection fees. See “– Summary of the Communications Act.”  Subscription Fees.  The Company collects a monthly subscription fee from its subscribers. The basic monthly subscription fee is HUF 4,500 ($19.98). In an effort to retain low usage customers, the Company has introduced different subscription fee options for its residential subscriber base. For a reduced monthly subscription fee, a residential subscriber agrees to pay his regular monthly measured service fee plus an additional percentage of such measured service fee which should lower the overall bill for low volume users. The IC Ministry regulates the subscription fees.   Connection Fees . The Company charges its subscribers connection fees when they are added to the Company’s network. The Company may collect the full connection fee provided that the subscriber is connected within 30 days; otherwise, the Company may only collect a portion of the connection fee and must connect the subscriber within one year. Upon connection, the Company may collect the remaining portion of the fee. Connection fees are recognized as income over the expected subscriber life (presently seven years) from the date that the connection is made. Connection fees are regulated by the IC Ministry and the maximum fees are currently HUF 37,500 ($166.55) for residential subscribers and HUF 100,000 ($444.13) for business and other institutional subscribers (including government institutions).  Customers requesting additional access lines are charged an additional connection fee per line. The Company can offer special promotions on the connection fees if it so chooses. In the past the Company has allowed its subscribers to pay connection fees on various installment plans.  Other   Operating Revenue.  The Company supplies private line   service (point-to-point and point-to-multi-point) primarily to businesses. As   of December 31, 2002, approximately 1,661 leased lines were in service. In addition,   as of December 31, 2002, the Company had 1,849 public pay phones in the Operating   Areas. The Company generates additional revenues from Internet Service and the   provision of value-added services, including ISDN, voice mail, call waiting,   call forwarding,  12   and three-way calling,   as well as through the sale and rental of telephone equipment.   Strategy  With the enactment of the Communications Act and the key implementing decrees, Hungary has taken some significant action towards facilitating a more competitive telecommunications market as it prepares to join the European Union. A more competitive environment will provide the Company with many opportunities and challenges.  On November 2, 2002 the Company’s right to be the exclusive provider of non-cellular local voice telephone services in its Operating Areas expired. Matav’s rights to be the exclusive provider of non-cellular local voice telephone services in its concession areas (which cover approximately 70% of the area of Hungary) expired in the majority of its concession areas at the end of 2001 and in the remainder of its concession areas on November 2, 2002. All of the other LTOs’ markets also became open to competition in November 2002 as their exclusive rights to provide non-cellular local voice telephone services in their markets also expired. Therefore, while the Company, Matav and the other LTOs still retain their rights to provide non-cellular local voice telephone services, they are are subject to competition in this market. Competitors can enter these markets either by building out their own networks (an overbuild) or by using the existing network of the incumbent LTO. Subject to certain restrictions, the Communications Act requires each LTO to “unbundle” its network to allow other telecommunications services providers to use its network to compete in the provision of non-cellular local voice telephone service. The fees for such service are to be based on each LTO’s cost plus an allowable profit margin. Effective January 1, 2003, the fees are based on the Long Run Incremental Cost model. Each of the LTOs submitted a Reference Unbundling Offer to the Communications Authority, all of which were approved. See “– Summary of the Communications Act – Local Loop Unbundling.”  Matav’s   exclusivity rights to provide domestic and international long distance non-cellular   voice services expired at the end of 2001. While the Communications Act envisioned   full competition in the domestic and international long distance markets commencing   in 2002, certain technical, legal, economic and regulatory factors have caused   a delay in the introduction of effective competition in this market.  Until   there is full competition in the Company’s Operating Areas, the Company   is able to direct the long distance calls of its subscriber base. See “–   Services and Pricing – Measured Service.”  While the Company is now potentially subject to competition in its non-cellular local voice telephone services markets, the Company is now free to enter other local markets and expand its long distance services beyond its existing customer base. The Company’s goal is to provide the broadest array of telecommunications services with exceptional quality and service at reasonable prices by becoming the most efficient full service telecommunications provider in Central Europe. In order to both reach its goal and effectively compete in a more open Hungarian telecommunications market, the Company’s primary focus is to maintain its market dominance in the provision of non-cellular local voice telephone services in its Operating Areas while also becoming the premier provider of long distance services in its Operating Areas as competition for the long distance market takes hold in its Operating Areas, particularly in the business segment. To accomplish this goal, the Company is continuing and expanding its efforts to increase its product and service offerings and their usage, increase its marketing to its entire customer base, improve its customer service, and increase its operational efficiencies. Such efforts are intended to enable the Company to reduce operating costs and increase call revenues from its customer base to offset any market share lost to competitors. In addition to continuing to service its existing market, the Company also intends to selectively compete outside its Operating Areas by offering newly liberalized services either by itself or in conjunction with other telecommunications providers. The Company has implemented the following operational strategies in order to further its business objectives.  Products and Service Offerings  While the Company’s business and other institutional subscribers account for only 16% of the Company’s access lines, these customers accounted for a greater share of the Company’s revenue in 2002. The Company believes that its business customers have the greatest need for the variety of new products and services that a modern telecommunications company can offer. The Company also believes that its business customers will be the primary target for competition in its Operating Areas once competition increases. Therefore, the Company intends to   13  continue to solidify its relationship with its business customers to help them identify and solve their communications needs.   Since the availability of modern telecommunications services is still a relatively new phenomena in Hungary, educating the smaller and medium sized business customers on the availability and benefits of the Company’s products and services is a continuing goal of the Company. The Company focuses on the marketing and sales of various products and services to its business customers such as managed lease lines, ADSL internet service, dial up Internet service, PBX sales and services, ISDN, and Digifon Services (e.g. call forwarding, call waiting, call barring). The Company has an account manager assigned to each business customer who is responsible for continually meeting with each business customer to find out such customer’s telecommunications needs. The account manager can then demonstrate each of the Company’s products and services and, working together with that customer, develop a telecommunications strategy using the Company’s products and services which can best enhance that customer’s business.   For residential customers, the Company is focusing its efforts on educating the customer on the availability of such products and services as voice mail, caller ID and call waiting, which are all new to the Company’s residential customer base. The Company is also highlighting the benefits of the Internet and encouraging its use by offering special rate packages for Internet usage. One of the tools that the Company is deploying to increase customer awareness of these services is personal demonstrations with telephones and personal computers within the Company’s customer service centers, which are located in each of the Operating Areas.   The Company continues to offer the latest telecommunications products and services as they become available in the telecommunications marketplace. The Company introduced Internet Protocol-based voice services for international calls to its customers in 2000. This enabled the Company to offer long distance and international calling services at discounted rates. During 2001 the Company became an Internet Service Provider in all of its Operating Areas under the brand name “Globonet”. The Company introduced Caller ID in all of its Operating Areas in 2002 and is introducing ADSL internet access (“broadband”) in 2003. The Company is also reviewing its options with respect to such offerings as pre-paid calling plans, loyalty programs and teleconferencing to increase usage.  Marketing  For its residential customers and potential customers, the Company’s marketing efforts include advertising on radio and television, door-to-door marketing surveys, newspaper advertising, participation in local trade shows, direct mail, community meetings and billboard advertising. Since many Hungarians still prefer face-to-face personal marketing, the Company has leveraged the benefits of having a customer service center in each Operating Area to give personal demonstrations. To get new customers the Company has implemented short marketing campaigns targeting those residences without telephone service. To induce potential new customers the Company has offered special limited time only rates on the connection fee and special rate plans for infrequent telephone users. The Company has also used its special rate plans in an attempt to limit the disconnection rate of its customers. For business customers, the Company’s primary marketing tool has been direct contact with the business customers through the Company’s account managers.   Customer Service  The Company believes that providing a high level of customer service is important in attracting additional customers, increasing the usage of its existing products and services by its current customer base and retaining customers in a competitive environment. Prior to completion of the Company’s telecommunications networks, some customers waited for over 20 years for telephone service. Today, most residences and businesses can be connected to one of the Company’s networks within 7 days. The Company operates full time operator service centers in each of the Operating Areas which are staffed by operators capable of providing, among other things, call completion assistance, directory assistance and trouble reporting on a 24 hour basis. The Company also operates customer service centers in each of the Operating Areas which offer facsimile, Internet, photocopying and telephone bill payment services. These service centers also sell communications equipment, process telephone service applications and handle billing inquiries. The Company reorganized its customer service centers to make such centers more “customer friendly.”  The Company is providing more choices for its customers and more product information instruction. For its business customers, the Company has account representatives for each customer to work with businesses to help them achieve their objectives with innovative telecommunications solutions.  14  Operational Efficiency  The Company has increased its productivity and operational efficiency by achieving certain economies of scale with respect to network management, administration, customer service, billing, accounts receivable, payroll processing, purchasing and network maintenance. For example, the Company has implemented a centralized operating and accounting system to serve all of its Operating Areas, which has given the Company a more efficient customer billing system and greater financial accountability. To capitalize on the Company’s contiguous concession areas, the Company reorganized its operations into three Operating Areas rather than four which achieved certain economies of scale. Further, in an effort to reduce more overhead and maximize efficiencies, the Company merged its four Hungarian operating subsidiaries into one Hungarian operating subsidiary as of January 1, 2002. The Company now has 332 access lines per employee. During 2003 the Company will continue its ongoing efforts to streamline its operations.  Newly Liberalized Services  With the Hungarian telecommunications market becoming open to competition, the Company intends to take advantage of select market opportunities. For example, the Hungarian domestic and international long distance market is now technically open for competition. Therefore, the Company is now providing under its own brand name domestic and international long distance services to its existing customer base in its Operating Areas and is licensed to provide long distance services throughout Hungary.   For calls originating in one of the Company’s Operating Areas and terminating in another of the Company’s Operating Areas, the Company now has both the right and capability (through a combination of its owned networks and leased lines) to carry the call from the initiating caller to the recipient without passing through Matav’s network, thus saving the Company from any revenue sharing with Matav. For calls originating in one of the Company’s Operating Areas and terminating in certain parts of Hungary outside of the Company’s Operating Areas, the Company is capable of delivering the call to the local network of the recipient for completion. In this case, the Company keeps more revenue by not having to pay for transmission services between local networks. The Company has to pay the recipient’s local carrier a fee for completing the call. For other calls originating in one of the Company’s Operating Areas and terminating in other parts of Hungary, the Company may have to use another telecommunications provider, such as Matav, to carry the call to the local network of the recipient for completion. In this case, the Company has to pay, directly or indirectly, a transmission fee and a completion fee to the carrier completing the call. For international calls from the Company’s Operating Areas, the Company has the right and capability (through a combination of its owned networks and leased lines) to carry the call up to the handoff to an international carrier for completion.   While the Company is licensed to provide long distance voice and data services and Internet services in markets outside of its Operating Areas, the Company does not presently have the network capability to provide such services entirely over its own network but it could enter selected markets and other markets as a reseller of another carrier’s network as needed. The Company is currently evaluating its opportunities to offer these and other liberalized services and may enter markets that it deems appropriate for its business strategy and goals.   See “– Summary of the Communications Act.”   Mergers and Strategic Alliances   As the Hungarian telecommunications market continues to develop and become more liberalized and telecommunications providers enter and/or expand their presence in Hungary, the Company will continue to review its options with respect to any merger or strategic alliance possibilities that may enable the Company to increase its presence in the Hungarian telecommunications marketplace.  Competition  The   Company’s concession rights provided for an eight-year period of exclusivity   in the provision of non-cellular local voice telephone services, which ended   on November 2, 2002, while the initial 25-year terms of the concession contracts   are scheduled to expire in 2019. See also “- Regulation – Concession   Contracts”. Therefore, other telecommunications service providers can enter   the Company’s Operating Areas to compete with the Company in the non-cellular   local voice services market. However, such competitors would have to develop   their own telecommunications network (wire or wireless) or may use, in some   cases, the Company’s network pursuant to an unbundling agreement.  15   There are some restrictions   on the rights of certain telecommunications service providers to access the   Company’s networks through unbundling. See “– Summary of the   Communications Act – Local Loop Unbundling.”  Historically, Matav with its country-wide network has been the exclusive provider of domestic and international long distance voice services. The Communications Act permitted other telecommunications service providers to enter the long distance voice market anywhere in Hungary in 2002. However, certain technical, legal, economic and regulatory factors have caused a delay in effective competition in this market. As noted above, the Company is the only long distance carrier in its Operating Areas until there is effective competition in these markets. See “– Services and Pricing – Measured Service.”  Three telecommunications service providers have built long distance networks capable of servicing substantially all of Hungary: Matav; PanTel; and Vivendi. These companies are capable of entering the Company’s Operating Areas to compete for the Company’s customers, particularly the business customers, in both the long distance market and the market for the provision of non-cellular local voice telephone services. PanTel has substantially built a nationwide fiber optic backbone network along the rights-of-way of MAV, the Hungarian railway. PanTel, which has recently started to provide full voice services in some parts of Hungary (outside of the Operating Areas), has been providing business communications services such as digital data, fax and video transmission using Internet Protocol (“IP”) data transmission technology and IP-based voice services primarily to large customers since 1999. PanTel also owns a majority stake in one of Hungary’s largest Internet Service Providers. Vivendi provides local non-cellular voice telephone service in nine concession areas (covering approximately 15% of the country) and has built a fiber optic network throughout parts of Hungary. Most existing telecommunications service providers in Hungary have already entered the marketplace for voice-over IP services, which did not violate Matav’s now-expired exclusivity rights to long distance voice services.  Other Hungarian telecommunications providers, and potential providers, include the following entities which have either entered, or plan to enter, the telecommunications marketplace, particularly the business marketplace: e-Tel, an Irish telecommunications services provider; Novacom Telecommunications Kft., which was recently acquired by PanTel, is expanding the fiber optic infrastructure of Elmu, the Hungarian electricity distributor; GTS Hungary Kft. (“GTS”) which provides data and voice transmission services through a nationwide microwave network and a satellite based network (GTS also owns one of the leading Hungarian ISPs); Antenna Hungaria, the national broadcaster which is still controlled by the state; Equant Hungary Kft., which provides IP-based data and voice transmission services; BT Hungaria, an affiliate of British Telecom and Sweden’s Telia AB, which both provide international interconnection services; and Germany’s Infigate GmbH and U.S.-based UUNet, an affiliate of MCI WORLDCOM, both of which are licensed to provide Internet services.  The Company faces intense competition from the three Hungarian cellular providers: Westel; Pannon; and Vodafone. The cellular market growth has been very fast in Hungary with a penetration rate over 67% at the end of 2002. Unlike the United States and Western Europe, many Hungarians have gone from having no telephone (wireline or wireless) straight to a cellular telephone without getting a traditional wireline telephone first. Historically, the airtime and monthly fees charged by the cellular operators are generally more than the fees for comparable services charged by the Company. The cellular telephone providers are, however, currently deploying various discounted pre-paid plans, which make pricing comparisons difficult.  The Hungarian cable television market is highly fragmented with over 400 cable television providers. The Hungarian cable television industry is undergoing consolidation. An affiliate of UPC is the largest cable television operator in Hungary and owns a LTO with one concession area. UPC’s controlling shareholder is UnitedGlobalCom Inc., the global television operator of Denver, Colorado (NASDAQ:UCOMA).  Hungary’s application for membership in the European Union (“EU”) was accepted in 1998. Hungary has recently completed the negotiations of the terms of its accession into the EU. Hungary has scheduled a referendum for April 12, 2003 for its citizens to vote on EU accession. If that vote is affirmative, Hungary is expected to join the EU in May 2004 along with 9 other countries. The EU has adopted numerous directives providing for an open telecommunications market among its member nations. Some of Hungary’s laws affecting the telecommunications markets, including those recently enacted, could be affected by Hungary’s entry into the EU.  Summary of the Communications Act  In   June 2001 the Hungarian Parliament enacted the Communications Act, which took   effect on December 23, 2001. The goal of the Communications Act is to provide   for a more liberalized telecommunications market by making market entry easier,  16   promoting competition   and harmonizing Hungary’s telecommunications laws with those of the EU.   The Communications Act is a framework piece of legislation with the detailed   regulations contained in a series of implementing decrees. Some of the key provisions   of the Communications Act and the implementing decrees that have been adopted   to date are summarized by topic below. The provisions are subject to change   and legal interpretation by the Hungarian regulatory system and could also change   based upon Hungary’s pending accession into the European Union. While the   key decrees have been passed, the Communications Act has not been fully implemented,   resulting in a delay in the opening up of the long distance market to full competition.    Administration  The Communications Authority is the central administrative body that reports to the IC Minister and the Hungarian government. It is divided into three units: the Regional Communications Office which is responsible for administrative tasks such as issuing licenses, verifying reports and market supervision; the Communications Inspectorate which is responsible for such matters as market surveillance and frequency management; and the Communications Arbitration Committee which identifies providers with significant market power, reviews reference interconnection and local loop unbundling offers for approval and settles disputes between parties.   Market Entry  Today market entry from a legal standpoint is relatively easier than in the past when a concession from the government was required. A potential telecommunications service provider need only notify the Communications Inspectorate that it intends to provide a telecommunications service and provide certain documentation. Licenses are only required if the operator intends to use radio frequencies, plans on building a network or wants a number range to allocate to subscribers.  Significant Market Power   The   Communications Arbitration Committee is empowered to determine which telecommunications   service providers in the provision of fixed-line non-cellular voice services,   mobile cellular telephone services, leased line services, and interconnection   services have what is deemed Significant Market Power (“SMP”). A telecommunications   operator is deemed to have SMP when it has at least a 25% market share in a   specific geographic area in one of the four services noted above. The Communications   Arbitration Committee also has discretionary authority to designate a telecommunications   operator as a telecommunications operator with SMP based on several factors   including, among others, net revenue, access to capital and the necessary asset   infrastructure to reach customers. In November 2002, the Communications Arbitration   Committee designated the Company, Matav, Vivendi, and Monortel, a subsidiary   of UPC, as having SMP in the provision of fixed-line non-cellular voice services   in their respective local markets. At the same time, the Communications Arbitration   Committee identified Westel (digital) and Pannon as operators with SMP in the   interconnection and cellular telephone services markets and Matav as an operator   with SMP in the leased line (transmission) market. Telecommunications operators   with SMP have additional obligations, some of which are summarized below.  Interconnection  Upon request, all telecommunications operators are required to interconnect their networks to another telecom operator provided that it is financially and technically feasible. A telecommunications operator designated as having SMP on the fixed local telephone line or leased line markets must submit a Reference Interconnection Offer (“RIO”) to the Communications Arbitration Committee. Once the Communications Arbitration Committee approves a RIO, the telecom operator must provide interconnection on the terms of the RIO to any telecom operator that wants interconnection. As of January 1, 2003, the interconnection fees set out in the RIO must be based on cost plus a reasonable profit calculated according to the Long Run Incremental Cost model. Such Long Run Incremental Cost model is intended to decrease interconnection fees. For example, if a telecom operator wants to connect to the Company’s network in order to provide domestic and international long distance service to the Company’s customers, the Company must provide interconnection on the terms of its RIO. The interconnection termination fees of cellular telephone providers with SMP must be cost based but they do not have to submit a RIO for approval.  17  Local Loop Unbundling  The LTOs (including Matav and the Company) with SMP in the provision of fixed-line non-cellular local voice telephone services are required to “unbundle” their local loop networks now that their exclusivity service periods have all expired. This means that the Company is required to allow a telecom operator to use its network to provide competing non-cellular local voice telephone services in its Operating Areas. The unbundling agreement must be on the terms of a reference unbundling offer (“RUO”) approved by the Communications Arbitration Committee, which offer must be based on cost to the LTO plus a reasonable profit based on the Long Run Incremental Cost model. The Company’s existing RUO was already approved by the Communications Authority. All third parties who want to use a LTO’s network to provide competing non-cellular local voice telephone service must take it on the terms approved by the Communications Arbitration Committee. A potentially important exception to the requirement that LTOs with SMP unbundle their networks is that a SMP-designated LTO does not have an obligation to unbundle its network if the party requesting the use of the LTO’s network is another SMP-designated telecommunications operator that is in a better position than that LTO with respect to assets, finances, revenues or the development of the international communications market. The exact meaning of this regulatory provision is not certain at this time but the Company could assert that it does not have to let certain telecom service providers in Hungary, including Matav, use the Company’s network to compete against the Company in the provision of non-cellular local voice telephone services in the Company’s Operating Areas. However, a potential competitor is not barred from building its own network in the Company’s Operating Areas. The term of this regulatory provision is also not certain at this time and the Company does not know with any certainty whether such provision would survive Hungary’s entry into the EU.   Carrier Selection   Customers other than those that have a discount tariff package pursuant to the Company’s universal service obligations are now supposed to have a choice on a call-by-call basis or on a continuing basis which provider of domestic and international long distance voice services they wish to use. The long distance provider chosen by the customer is then responsible for billing the customer for long distance charges and paying the LTO an interconnection fee for the initiation of the long distance call. The interconnection fee will be based on the LTO’s RIO approved by the Communications Arbitration Committee. However, as noted above, effective country-wide competition in the long distance market has not begun. See “– Services and Pricing – Measured Service.”  Number Portability  As of January 1, 2003 all of the telephone service providers in Hungary were supposed to ensure that their subscribers have the right to retain their telephone numbers when they change service providers. There are exceptions when a customer of a fixed line provider moves beyond a certain geographical area. The implementation of this requirement has been delayed due to a delay in the implementing regulation and because of technical and financial reasons.   Universal Services  Overview  – Effective in 2002, the Communications Act placed “universal service” obligations on SMP-designated telecommunications service providers. Universal Services (“Universal Services”) include (i) access to fixed line telecommunications so that a subscriber can make and receive local, domestic long distance, and international calls, (ii) the provision of a mandated number of public pay phones, (iii) operator-assisted services, and (iv) toll-free emergency services. Each SMP-designated telephone service provider, including the Company, has entered into a Universal Services Agreement with the IC Ministry.   Universal   Service Customers and Pricing  - Every SMP-designated   telecommunications services provider, including the Company, must offer each   of their residential subscribers a discounted and affordable telephone service   rate package. The goal of this discounted rate package is to encourage people   without telephone service to get telephone service and to provide low usage   subscribers with an incentive to keep their telephone service. The discounted   rate package must include a lower monthly subscription fee with a higher variable   fee for measured services. Prior to the adoption of Universal Service obligations,   the Company had already adopted discounted rate packages for its low usage customers,   which were approved by the Communications Authority as part of its approval   of the Company’s general subscriber terms and conditions. The Company has   designated its lowest discounted package as its Universal Service discounted   rate package. Residential subscribers choosing this discounted rate package   are not eligible  18   for carrier selection   with respect to domestic and international long distance service. See “–   Services and Pricing – Measured Service.”  Universal Services Fund  – To offset the cost of the provision of Universal Services, the Communications Act provided for a Universal Services Fund (“USF”). Every cellular and non-cellular telecommunications operator in Hungary is now required to contribute quarterly to the USF. Payments to the USF are based on revenue from telecommunications services from the prior year less certain items including (i) interconnection fees, (ii) revenue from the discounted Universal Services packages, and (iii) payments received from the USF. Funds from the USF are paid out to Universal Service Providers, including the Company, to offset the cost of providing Universal Services. Payments from the USF are on a per Universal Service subscriber basis. The financial support is intended to make up for the shortfall in revenue which is attributable to the difference between the revenue the Company would have received from the standard residential rate subscriber packages and the Universal Service subscriber packages mandated by Universal Services. For the Company in 2003 that amount is HUF 1,085 ($4.82) per Universal Service subscriber per month. However, there is a cap on the amount of funds payable to any LTO out of the USF, which is currently limited to payments for each Universal Service subscriber up to a maximum number of Universal Services subscribers which is equal to 25% of an LTO’s residential subscriber base. For 2002, the Company expects to receive more funds from the USF than it owes the USF.   Performance Criteria  – The Company’s Universal Services Agreement provides for certain performance criteria including: deadlines for the installation of telephone service for new subscribers; minimum standards for the quality of voice and data transmission; and standard for error response. Failure to comply with these performance standards could result in financial penalties. Failure by the Company to fulfil its Universal Services obligations could result in the termination of the Company’s Universal Services Agreement which would result in the loss of benefits paid out to the Company by the USF. The Company believes that it has demonstrated substantial performance to date under its Universal Service Agreement. In addition to the above, if the Company ceases to fulfil its obligations under the Universal Services Agreement for unlawful reasons for which it is responsible, a fixed penalty of HUF 150 million (approximately $0.7 million) would be payable per geographical area per occasion by the Company.  Price   Regulation  Although prices charged for some telecommunications services are not regulated, the overall price increase for local and long distance non-cellular calls, subscription fees and connection fees will still be regulated. The price for Internet service is also regulated. Calls from a fixed line to a cellular phone which were set by cellular carriers in the past are now regulated.   Internet Service  Provided that it is technically feasible, telecommunications providers designated as having SMP must allow Internet Service Providers access to their networks to provide Internet access to customers. The access is subject to the terms of a network access agreement to be entered into between the telecommunications provider and the Internet Service Provider. The charges for Internet service in Hungary are regulated and the LTOs are obligated to pass on some of the regulated fees to the Internet Service Providers through a legislated revenue sharing arrangement.  Effect of European Union Entry  In 2002 the EU passed a new regulatory framework to be implemented by its existing members in 2003. Due to Hungary’s harmonization obligations in light of its expected 2004 EU entry, the Communications Act is likely to be amended to reflect this new EU regulatory framework. The main EU provisions include: a change to the significant market power calculation to emphasize a subjective market power test rather than a fixed market percentage test; EU Member States are given more discretion with respect to Universal Services; the method of financing Universal Services will be based on a net cost calculation of such service; the introduction of number portability; and expanded powers for the regulatory authorities of the Member States.   19  Regulation  In November 1992, the Hungarian Parliament enacted the Hungarian Telecommunications Act of 1992 (the “Telecom Act”) which took effect in 1993. The Telecom Act gave the TTW Ministry the authority to regulate the industry, including the setting of local, domestic long distance and international rates, the sharing of revenues between the LTOs and Matav, the accrediting of equipment vendors and the setting of standards in respect of network development and services offered. The oversight of the telecommunications industry has been transferred to the IC Ministry. See “- Overview of Hungarian Telecommunications Industry – The Regulatory Framework.”  With the passage of the Communications Act, many of the provisions of the Telecom Act were superceded. In light of the new regulatory framework set out by the Communications Act, the IC Ministry and the Company are currently in negotiations regarding the termination or amendment of the Company’s Concession Contracts. At this time the Company cannot predict with certainty whether the Concession Contracts will be amended or terminated or remain unchanged. In any event the Company will retain the necessary licenses to continue its services in the Operating Areas. The terms and applicability of the Concession Contracts are further complicated by the fact that four subsidiaries of the Company entered into the Concession Contracts with the TTW Ministry.  Those four subsidiaries (“KNC”, “Raba-Com”, “Papatel”, and “Hungarotel”) were merged into Hungarotel as of January 1, 2002. The terms of the Company’s Concession Contracts, which remain in force for the time being, are summarized below.  Concession Contracts  Pursuant to the Telecom Act and in accordance with the Concession Act of 1991, in connection with the award of a concession, each of the LTOs entered into a concession contract with the TTW Ministry governing the rights and obligations of the LTO with respect to each concession. Topics addressed by individual concession contracts include the royalties to be paid, guidelines concerning LTO capital structure, build-out milestones, employment guidelines and the level of required contributions to meet social and educational requirements. For example, the concession contracts stipulate that an LTO may not change its capital structure by more than 10% without the express written consent of the TTW Ministry (now the IC Ministry) and that former Matav employees generally must be retained for the first five to eight years of operation. The Company may, however, enter into termination agreements with its employees.  Corporate Governance . The amended Concession Contracts for Hungarotel and Papatel provide that two out of every five members of their Boards of Directors and one-half of the members of their Supervisory Boards be Hungarian citizens. Hungarotel, the surviving subsidiary of the Company’s merged Hungarian subsidiaries, is currently in compliance with this requirement.   Exclusivity . The Concession Contracts provided that each concession holder had the exclusive right to provide non-cellular local voice telephone services for eight years until November 2002. Therefore, any telecommunications operator now has the right to provide non-cellular local voice telephone services in the Operating Areas. See “– Summary of the Communications Act – Market Entry.”  Royalties.  Each of the Company’s former subsidiaries was required by the terms of its individual Concession Contract to pay annual royalties equal to a percentage of net revenue from basic telephone services. Net revenue for this purpose is generally defined as gross revenue from basic telephone services less the fees paid to Matav. The royalty percentage may also differ by region. For example, the former subsidiaries were obligated to pay royalties in the following percentage amounts: KNC 0.1%; Raba-Com 1.5%; Hungarotel (Bekescsaba) 2.3%; Hungarotel (Oroshaza) 0.3%; and Papatel 2.3%. These amounts were paid annually, in arrears. At this time the Company does not believe that it will be obligated to pay such royalties for 2002 or beyond given the negotiations with the IC Ministry regarding amending or terminating the Concession Contracts and the introduction of Universal Service obligations. Therefore, the Company has not paid any royalties for 2002 or accrued for any such liability.  Social and Educational Contributions . In addition to the royalties described above, Concession Contracts may also call for social and educational contributions based on revenues of the Operating Company, excluding VAT. The Concession Contracts for KNC and Raba-Com required them to contribute 1.5% and 1.0% of such revenues, respectively, to support social and educational projects in their Operating Areas. While the Company is continuing to support social and educational activities, it did not make such specific contributions in 2002. At this time the Company does not believe that it will be obligated to make such contributions for 2002 or beyond given the   20  negotiations with the IC Ministry to amend or terminate the Concession Contracts and the introduction of Universal Service obligations.   Renewal . Each Concession Contract provides for a 25-year term with the right to submit a proposal, within 18 months prior to the expiration of the Concession Contract to apply for an additional 12- 1 / 2  years. With the enactment of the Communications Act, this renewal provision will not be applicable. The Company will retain a license to continue service.  Termination upon Lack of Performance . If an LTO is unable to comply with the terms of its concession contract, the IC Ministry has the right to abrogate the concession contract. With the enactment of the Communications Act, the Company’s performance obligations under its Concession Contracts are substantially repeated in its Universal Services Agreement. See “ – Summary of Communications Act – Performance Criteria.”  If the Company’s performance is not in compliance with its obligations, it could be fined by the Regional Communications Office or, in the worst case, the IC Minstry could terminate its Universal Service Agreement which would result in the loss of benefits paid out to the Company from the USF. The Company believes that it has demonstrated substantial performance to date under its Concession Contracts and under its Universal Services Agreement and that its relations with the IC Ministry are good.  Dispute Resolution . Any disputes arising with respect to the interpretation of a Concession Contract will be adjudicated by a Hungarian court.   Hungarian Equity Ownership Requirements.  The TTW Ministry stipulated in the Concession Contracts for Hungarotel and Papatel, as amended on June 3, 1996, that Hungarotel and Papatel must meet certain Hungarian ownership requirements so that by the seventh year anniversary of such amendments (June 3, 2003) of their Concession Contracts, Hungarian ownership must consist of 25% plus one share of the relevant Operating Company. For the first three months after assuming operations of an Operating Area from Matav, no Hungarian ownership was required. For the seven-year period ending June 3, 2003, Hungarian ownership must be at least 10%, except that during such period, such ownership may be reduced to as low as 1% for a period of up to two years. During such seven-year period, while the Hungarian ownership block is required to be at least 10%, such Hungarian owners of a 10% equity holding in Hungarotel or Papatel must have voting power of at least 25% plus one share, thus providing Hungarian owners the right to block certain transactions which, under Hungarian corporate law, require a supermajority (75%) of stockholders voting on the matter, such as mergers and consolidations, increases in share capital and winding-up.   For these purposes, Hungarian ownership of shares means shares owned by Hungarian citizens. Shares owned by a corporation are considered Hungarian owned only in proportion to the Hungarian ownership of such corporation. The 25% plus one share Hungarian ownership requirement can also be met by listing such shares on the Budapest Stock Exchange.   The equity ownership requirements and exceptions described above are contained in the June 1996 amended Concession Contracts for Hungarotel and Papatel. The equity ownership requirements expressly set forth in KNC’s and Raba-Com’s Concession Contracts call for a strict 25% plus one share Hungarian ownership requirement. However, the TTW Ministry stated, pursuant to a letter dated September 18, 1996, that it intended to treat all of the Company’s subsidiaries equally (as set forth in Hungarotel’s and Papatel’s Concession Contracts) with respect to such ownership requirements.  If the Hungarian ownership does not meet the required levels, the LTO is required to give notice to the IC Ministry, which may then require the LTO to rectify the situation within three months, or a shorter period if it is determined that there has been a delay in the required notification. With respect to the Company, Postabank, a Hungarian commercial bank, owns approximately 20.0% of HTCC which is the majority owner of Hungarotel, the Operating Company. Therefore, the Company is currently deemed in compliance with the current 10% ownership requirement. In light of the newly liberalized telecommunications laws, and the Company’s negotiations with the IC Ministry to amend or terminate the Concession Contracts, the Company believes that the IC Ministry will eliminate all Hungarian equity ownership requirements. In the event that the IC Ministry does not change the present Hungarian ownership requirements or adopts new Hungarian ownership requirements, which the Company does not expect, the Company will formulate plans to meet any such Hungarian ownership requirements although there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to increase the Hungarian ownership in a manner sufficient to comply with such requirements in the future.   21  Hungarian Taxation  Corporate Income Tax . The operations of the Operating Company are subject to Hungarian corporate income tax. Generally, Hungarian corporations are subject to tax at an annual rate of 18.0%. Companies which fulfilled certain criteria were entitled to a 100.0% reduction in income taxes for the five year period ending December 31, 1998 and a 60.0% reduction in income taxes for the subsequent five year period ending December 31, 2003, provided certain criteria continue to be met. See Note 1(j) of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Operating Company is currently eligible for such tax treatment. However, the corporate income tax regulations are reviewed, and subject to change, annually. Any tax increase or change in the tax exempt status of the Operating Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company.   Value Added Tax  (“VAT”). The Hungarian VAT system is based on and is very similar to the one used in most European countries. VAT is a consumption tax which is fully borne by the final consumer of a product or service. The current rates of VAT in Hungary vary between 0.0% and 25.0%, depending on the type of product or service being supplied.   Social Insurance Contributions . The level of contributions for social insurance in Hungary is one of the highest in Europe. In 2002 employers were required to pay the state 29% of an employee’s gross salary as a social security contribution, 3.0% of an employee’s gross salary as the employer’s contribution to the unemployment fund, and 1.5% of an employee’s gross salary in training fund contributions. In addition, the Company must pay an additional HUF 4,500 ($19.99) per month for each employee for health insurance.   Employees  The Company had a total of approximately 603 employees, including 5 expatriates, as of March 2003. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be satisfactory.  Item 2.     Properties  The Company leases its principal executive offices in Budapest, Hungary and also has a United States office located in Seattle, WA. In addition, the Operating Company owns or leases properties throughout its Operating Areas in Hungary. The Company has secured all the necessary rights-of-way with respect to its telecommunications networks. The Company’s owned real property and telecommunications assets are secured pursuant to the Company’s secured syndicated bank credit facility. The Company believes that its leased and owned office space and real property is adequate for its present needs but periodically reviews its future needs.  Item 3.     Legal Proceedings  Dialcont  In its Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2001 and in its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the third quarter 2002, the Company noted legal proceedings with Dialcont Kft. (“Dialcont”). In November 2002, the Company and Dialcont settled their dispute. The Company’s reserve for this settlement was more than adequate.   Local Business Tax  A   provision in Hungarotel’s Concession Contracts provided for a payment by   Hungarotel of a sum equal to ten times the local municipal business tax. At   the time of the inception of the Concession Contracts, the local business tax   was 0%. When this increased in one of the regions within the Hungarotel Operating   Area in 1996, one municipality claimed that Hungarotel was liable to pay the   local business tax at ten times the prevailing rate. However, the municipality   has not been able to enforce this undertaking because it is not a party to the   Concession Contracts. The municipality has taken this matter up with both the   Communications Authority and the TTW Ministry. In May 1999, the then Hungarian   Deputy State Secretary gave a verbal confirmation that the TTW Ministry would   not enforce the undertaking against Hungarotel. Subsequently, in November 1999,   the TTW Ministry sent a letter to the municipality informing it that the disputed   business tax provision was not enforceable because the indefinite nature of   the undertaking constituted an unjustified burden on Hungarotel and that the   undertaking was not in compliance with the laws on Local Business Tax. The most   recent development in this matter was a January 2001 letter from the municipality   to the Company demanding the sum of HUF 648.0 million ($2.9 million).  22   The letter stated   that, in the absence of payment, the municipality will take the matter up with   the IC Ministry, the Communications Authority and others. There have been no   other developments in this case. Hungarotel believes that this undertaking is   unenforceable and intends to defend any action brought on this matter.  Fazis  During 1996 and 1997, the Company entered into several construction contracts with Fazis, a Hungarian contractor (“Fazis”) which totaled $59.0 million in the aggregate, $47.5 of which was financed by a contractor financing facility. Fazis financed the facility through Postabank. The Company and Fazis have a disagreement with respect to several issues relating to the quality and quantity of the work done by Fazis. The Company has rejected invoices from Fazis in the amount of approximately HUF 700 million (approximately $3.1 million) and Fazis subsequently sought payment under separate invoices in the amount of approximately $24 million (at historical exchange rates), which Hungarotel disputed because of quantity and quality issues and because of its counterclaim for breach of contract by Fazis, amounting to some $31 million (at historical exchange rates).  In order to resolve these issues, in 1999, the Company purchased from Postabank some of Postabank’s receivables owed by Fazis to Postabank (HUF 4.0 billion; approximately $17.8 million) with respect to the contractor financing facility. The Company also purchased from Postabank some of the obligations which the Company owed to Fazis under the contractor financing facility which were assumed by Postabank (HUF 7.0 billion; approximately $31.1 million). The Company then set off its remaining uncontested liabilities owed to Fazis (HUF 900 million; approximately $4.0 million) against the amounts owed to the Company by Fazis (HUF 4.0 billion; approximately $17.8 million). Fazis has challenged these actions by the Company in a lawsuit filed in 2001 with the Metropolitan Court in Budapest. The Company has filed counterclaims in this matter. There is a court hearing scheduled for May 2003.   In 1999 Reorg Rt. (“Reorg”), a company responsible for collecting Postabank’s bad debts, initiated debt collection proceedings against Fazis. In June 2000 Reorg claimed the benefit of certain invoices in the amount of HUF 455 million (approximately $2.0 million) that Fazis had issued to the Company, asserting that Fazis had assigned those invoices to it as security in the debt collection proceedings. The Company rejected Reorg’s claim on the grounds that Fazis had no right to assign the invoices and that, in any event, the Company has a substantive defense and a counterclaim on the merits to the underlying claims on the invoices. Reorg subsequently reduced its demand of HUF 455 million to HUF 250 million (approximately $1.1 million). The Metropolitan Court of Budapest dismissed Reorg’s claim asserting that the Metropolitan Court did not have jurisdiction and that the contractual claims should be decided by arbitration proceedings. Reorg has appealed and the Hungarian Supreme Court upheld that appeal, ordering this matter to be returned to the Metropolitan Court. The next hearing at the Metropolitan Court has been scheduled for August 2003.  At this time the outcome of any of these legal proceedings and disputes cannot be predicted with certainty. The Company believes that it will prevail on the merits. There can, however, be no assurances as to the final outcome or course of action of such dispute.   Other  The Company is involved in various other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company is contesting these legal actions in addition to the suits noted above; however, the outcome of individual matters is not predictable with assurance. Although the ultimate resolution of these actions (including the actions discussed above) is not presently determinable, the Company believes that any liability resulting from the current pending legal actions involving the Company, in excess of amounts provided therefor, will not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity.   Item 4.     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  No   matters were submitted to a vote of the Company’s security holders during   the quarter ended December 31, 2002.  23  PART II  Item 5.     Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters  Market Information  The Company’s Common Stock trades on the American Stock Exchange (the “Amex”) under the symbol “HTC.”  Trading of the Common Stock on the Amex commenced on December 20, 1995. From December 8, 1994 through December 19, 1995, the Common Stock was quoted on the Nasdaq National Market and from December 28, 1992 through December 7, 1994 the Common Stock was quoted on the Nasdaq Small-Cap Market. In 1998, NASD, parent of The Nasdaq Stock Market, merged with the American Stock Exchange. Subsequent to the merger, The Nasdaq-Amex Market Group was created as a holding company under which both The Nasdaq Stock Market and the American Stock Exchange function as independent subsidiaries, with separate listed companies.   The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices for the Common Stock as reported by the Amex for each quarter in 2001 and 2002.                          High               Low                                                            Quarter Ended:                                                                                           2001                                             March 31, 2001             $      9.50             5.63                 June 30, 2001             8.04             5.05                 September 30, 2001             5.35             2.65                 December 31, 2001             5.30             3.65                                                               2002                                             March 31, 2002             $      5.50             4.10                 June 30, 2002             8.00             4.80                 September 30, 2002             8.25             5.50                 December 31, 2002                    8.35             5.90                On March 20, 2003, the closing sale price for the Common Stock on the Amex was $8.60.  Stockholders  As of March 21, 2003, the Company had 12,113,180 shares of Common Stock outstanding held by 93 holders of record. The Company believes that it has approximately 1,300 beneficial owners who hold their shares in street names.  The Company will furnish, without charge, on the written request of any stockholder, a copy of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, including financial statements filed therewith. Stockholders wishing a copy may send their request to the Company at 1201 Third Avenue, Suite 3400, Seattle, WA 98101-3034.  Dividend Policy  In 1999, the Company issued 30,000 shares of its Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock with a liquidation value of $70 per share to Citizens. Any holder of such Preferred Shares is entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends in arrears at the annual rate of 5%, compounded annually on the liquidation value. To date, the Company has not paid any dividends on its preferred stock. As of December 31, 2002, the total arrearage on the Preferred Shares was $386,000. Under Delaware law, HTCC has been restricted in past years from paying dividends due to a stockholders’ deficiency. The Company intends to reevaluate its preferred stock dividend policy going forward. The Company’s secured bank credit facility has also limited and continues to limit the Company’s ability to pay dividends. It is the present policy of the Company to retain earnings, if any, to finance the development and growth of its businesses. Accordingly, the Board of Directors does not anticipate that cash dividends will be paid on   24  its Common Stock until earnings of the Company warrant such dividends, and there can be no assurance that the Company can achieve such earnings.  At present, HTCC’s only source of cash is payments from intercompany loans, payments under its management service agreement with the Operating Company, and dividends, if any, from the Operating Company. The Operating Company’s ability to pay dividends or make other capital distributions to HTCC is governed by Hungarian law, and, as noted above, is also significantly restricted by the Company’s secured bank credit facility. The Operating Company is the borrower under the credit facility which provides that the Operating Company can only make distributions without consent to HTCC for limited purposes. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities  On December 21, 2000, the Company issued 72,000 shares of Common Stock to the International Finance Corporation, a member of the World Bank Group (the “IFC”). The Company issued the shares in exchange for the IFC’s 20% equity interest in Papatel.  On March 14, 2001, the Company issued 14,001 shares of Common Stock to TDC for $7.00 per share pursuant to TDC’s preemptive rights in connection with the issuance to the IFC.   All of these unregistered issuances were in reliance upon an exemption from the registration provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) set forth in Section 4(2) thereof relative to transactions by an issuer not involving any public offering. Each of the purchasers was informed that the transactions were being effected without registration under the Securities Act and that the shares acquired could not be resold without registration under the Securities Act unless the sale is effected pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.  Item 6.     Selected Financial Data  HUNGARIAN TELEPHONE AND CABLE CORP. AND SUBSIDIARIES Selected Financial and Operating Data (Dollars in Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)           For the Year             2002             2001             2000             1999             1998                                                                                               Operating revenues, net             $      52,182             $      45,236             $      42,974             $      45,438             $      38,707                 Operating income (loss)             $      23,086             $      18,340             $      16,469             $      16,189             $      (6,059         )           Operating income (loss) per common share (basic)             $      1.91             $      1.51             $      1.37             $      1.68             $      (1.14      )          Income (loss) before extraordinary items             $      27,341             $      11,099             $      (5,331      )      $      (17,773      )      $      (50,612      )          Net income (loss)             $      27,341             $      11,099             $      (5,331      )      $      3,172             $      (50,612      )          Net income (loss) per common share (basic)             $      2.25             $      0.91             $      (0.45      )      $      0.33             $      (9.53      )          At Year-End                                                                                       Total assets             $      169,059             $      136,071             $      147,318             $      154,683             $      177,067                 Long-term debt, excluding current installments             $      102,165             $      104,882             $      124,814             $      139,661             $      202,881                 Total stockholders’ equity (deficiency)             $      29,848             $      366             $      (10,878      )      $      (6,946      )      $      (89,037      )            25     Item   7.     Management’s   Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Introduction  The   Company is engaged primarily in the provision of telecommunications services   through its operating subsidiary, Hungarotel Tavkozlesi Rt. (“Hungarotel”).   Until December 31, 2001, the Company had four other operating subsidiaries in   Hungary, which merged into Hungarotel as of that date. The Company earns substantially   all of its telecommunications revenues from measured service fees, monthly line   rental fees, connection fees, public pay telephone services and ancillary services   (including charges for additional services purchased at the customer’s   discretion).  During 1996 and 1997, the Company embarked on a significant network development program which met its substantial demand backlog, increased the number of basic telephone access lines in service and modernized existing facilities. The development and installation of the network in each of the areas the Company operates in required significant capital expenditures.  Now that the Company’s networks are built-out, the ability of the Company to generate sufficient revenues to satisfy cash requirements and maintain profitability will depend upon a number of factors, including the Company’s ability to attract additional customers both in and outside its Operating Areas and increased revenues per customer. These factors are expected to be primarily influenced by the success of the Company’s operating and marketing strategies, as well as market acceptance of telecommunications services both within and outside the Company’s Operating Areas. In addition, the Company’s profitability may be affected by changes in the Company’s regulatory environment, macroeconomic factors and other factors that are beyond the Company’s control.  The Company funded its construction costs and working capital needs over several years primarily through credit facilities with Postabank and a $47.5 million contractor financing facility. On March 30, 1999, and May 12, 1999, the Company entered into a series of transactions which restructured the Company’s debt and capital structure. As the final step in the Company’s debt and equity restructuring, on April 11, 2000, the Company entered into a EUR 130 million Senior Secured Debt Facility with a European banking syndicate. See “- Liquidity and Capital Resources.”  To date, the Company’s activities have involved the acquisition of the concessions and telecommunications networks from Matav and the subsequent design, development and construction of the modern telecommunications infrastructure that the Company now has in service. The Company paid the Ministry $11.5 million (at historical exchange rates) for its concessions, spent approximately $23.2 million (at historical exchange rates) to acquire the existing telecommunications assets in its Operating Areas from Matav, and spent $201 million through December 31, 2002 (at historical exchange rates) on the development and construction of its telecommunications infrastructure. Since commencing the provision of telecommunications services in the first quarter of 1995, the Company’s network construction and expansion program has added 139,100 access lines through December 31, 2002 to the 61,400 access lines acquired directly from Matav. As a result, the Company had 200,500 access lines in operation at year-end 2002. During the past year, due to weakness in the economy within the areas the Company operates in and competition from the mobile market, the Company’s number of disconnections has increased such that the total number of access lines in service is lower than at the beginning of 2002 by 1.5%. The Company is attempting to address this continued decrease in access lines by developing new subscription packages, as well as through expanding into other markets within Hungary.  Critical Accounting Policies  The Company’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon its consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“US GAAP”). This requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. US GAAP provides the framework from which to make these estimates, assumptions and disclosures. The Company chooses accounting policies within US GAAP that management believes are appropriate to accurately and fairly report the Company’s operating results and financial position in a consistent manner. Management regularly assesses these policies in light of current and forecasted economic conditions. The Company’s accounting policies are stated in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company believes the following accounting policies are critical to understanding the results of operations and the effect of the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements:  Revenue Recognition Policies  – The Company recognizes revenues, net of interconnect charges, when services are rendered to the customer. The Company’s pricing is subject to oversight by the Hungarian regulatory authorities. Such regulation also covers interconnection, competition and other public policy issues. The Company also recognizes revenue associated with it being a Universal Service Provider within the areas in which it operates. Regulatory interpretation of the Communications Act and related Decrees, which may involve retroactive   26  adjustments, Hungary’s planned accession into the EU and changes in the political environment within Hungary all could result in changes in the level of the Company’s revenues, as well as the revenues associated with the Company being a Universal Service Provider. The Company monitors the decisions of the regulatory authorities and the Hungarian market closely, and will make adjustments to revenue and associated expenses if necessary. The Company records deferred costs and revenues related to the costs and related installation revenue associated with connecting new customers to the Company’s networks. Based on the SEC’s Staff Accounting Bulletin 101 (“SAB 101”), the Company amortizes these amounts over an estimated seven year average period. If a significant number of customers were to leave the service of the Company, the amortization of those deferred costs and revenues would accelerate.   Recovery of Goodwill –  In 2002, and annually thereafter, the Company will assess the fair value of goodwill. To the extent that information indicates that the carrying amount of the Company’s net assets exceed the Company’s estimated fair value, the Company will recognize an impairment charge. During 2002, the Company performed its annual impairment testing with respect to goodwill, and based upon the results, the Company concluded that there is no impairment to the carrying value of goodwill reported in its financial statements. The Company’s estimates of fair value will be subject to revision as market conditions change.  Long-lived Asset Recovery  – Long-lived assets, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment and intangibles, including concession rights, comprise a significant portion of the Company’s total assets. Changes in technology, changes in the Company’s intended use of these assets and/or changes in the regulatory environment may cause the estimated period of use or the value of these assets to change. These assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Estimates and assumptions used in both setting depreciable lives and reviewing recoverability require both judgement and estimation by management. Impairment is deemed to have occurred if projected undiscounted cash flows related to the asset are less than its carrying value. If impairment is deemed to have occurred, the carrying values of the assets are written down, through a charge against earnings, to their fair value.  Contingent Liabilities  – The Company establishes accruals for estimated loss contingencies when it is management’s assessment that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to contingent liabilities are reflected in income in the period in which different facts or information become known or circumstances change that affect the previous assessments as to the likelihood of and estimated amount of loss. Accruals for contingent liabilities are based upon management’s assumptions and estimates, after giving consideration to the advice of legal counsel and other information relevant to the assessment of the probable outcome of the matter. Should the outcome differ from the assumptions and estimates, revisions to the estimated accruals for contingent liabilities would be required.   Income Taxes  – In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. Management considers projected future taxable income and tax planning in making these assessments. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in the income tax laws or the results from reviews of the Company’s tax returns by taxing authorities.   Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2002 to Year Ended December 31, 2001  The   Company’s Hungarian subsidiary’s functional currency is the Hungarian   forint. The average Hungarian forint/U.S. dollar exchange rate for the year   ended December 31, 2002 was 257.89, as compared to an average Hungarian forint/U.S.   dollar exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2001 of 286.49. When comparing   the year ended December 31, 2002 to the year ended December 31, 2001, it should   be noted that all U.S. dollar reported amounts have been affected by this 11%   appreciation in the Hungarian subsidiary’s functional currency.     27     Net Revenues                         Year ended                                               (dollars in millions)             2002             2001                                                           Measured service revenues             $      30.3             $      29.2                 Subscription revenues             21.0             16.1                 Interconnect charges:                                             Incoming             2.7             2.8                 Outgoing             (9.6      )      (9.3      )                                                    Net             (6.9      )      (6.5      )                                                    Net measured service and subscription revenues             44.4             38.8                 Connection fees             2.5             2.2                 Other operating revenues, net             5.3             4.2                                                           Telephone Service Revenues, Net             $      52.2             $      45.2                                                                    The Company recorded a 15% increase in net telephone service revenues to $52.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $45.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001.  Net measured service and subscription revenues increased to $44.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $38.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Measured service revenues increased 4% to $30.3 million in 2002 from $29.2 million in 2001, while subscription revenues increased 30% to $21.0 million in 2002 from $16.1 million in 2001. Measured service revenues decreased in functional currency terms by approximately 7% as a result of (i) a decrease in average access lines in service from approximately 204,900 for the year ended December 31, 2001 to approximately 201,600 for the year ended December 31, 2002, (ii) lower minutes of use for some telecommunications services, and (iii) a slight decrease in call tariffs between the periods. Due to weakness in the economy in the areas in which the Company operates and industry pricing issues, both within and outside the Company’s Operating Areas, the Company did not opt to raise call tariffs on most of its calling services from July 1, 2002, although it was allowed to do so by the Hungarian regulatory authority. Subscription revenues increased in functional currency terms by approximately 17% as a result of (i) an approximate 8% increase in monthly subscription and tariff multiplier fees and (ii) the revenues associated with the Company becoming a Universal Service Provider during the period. As a Universal Service Provider the Company will receive funds from a Hungarian government fund established to provide (i) country-wide access to fixed line telecommunications services at reasonable prices, (ii) public pay telephones, (iii) operator assisted services, and (iv) free emergency services. The funds to be received by the Company are based upon the number of customers, which meet certain requirements defined in government regulations. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company has recognized $2.0 million in Universal Service Provider fees which are expected to be received by the Company early in 2003. The Company was not a Universal Service Provider for the year ended December 31, 2001, as the Universal Service Provider regime was only introduced as of February 1, 2002.   These revenues have been reduced by net interconnect charges, which totaled $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, as compared to $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. As a percentage of measured service and subscription revenues, net interconnect charges have declined from 14.3% for the year ended December 31, 2001 to 13.5% for the year ended December 31, 2002. Due to the regulatory regime continuing to not liberalize the market in Hungary as quickly as expected, the Company does not expect net interconnect charges as a percentage of call and subscription revenues to decrease considerably in 2003 as compared with 2002 levels.  Other operating revenues, which include revenues generated from the provision of direct lines, operator services, internet services and other miscellaneous telephone service revenues, increased 26% to $5.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, as compared to $4.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2001.  In functional currency terms, other operating revenues increased approximately 12% for the year ended December 31, 2002, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2001. This increase is primarily due to increased leased line and internet revenues between the two years. In U.S. dollar terms, however, this increase in other operating revenues in functional currency terms has been magnified by the 11% appreciation of the Hungarian forint.  Operating and Maintenance Expenses  Operating and maintenance expenses increased 8% to $18.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, as compared to $17.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. In functional currency terms, operating and maintenance expenses of Hungarotel decreased approximately 2% for the year ended December 31, 2002 due to continued focus on cost control, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2001. In U.S. dollar terms, however, the decrease in such costs in functional currency terms has been offset by the 11% appreciation of the Hungarian forint. There has also been a slight increase in the Company’s U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses, between the periods.                28   Depreciation and Amortization  Depreciation and amortization charges increased $0.7 million, or 7% to $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Depreciation and amortization charges decreased in functional currency terms by approximately 3% due to the adoption of SFAS 142, which requires the amortization of goodwill to cease effective January 1, 2002. However, this decrease has been offset by the 11% appreciation of the Hungarian forint between the periods. Included in depreciation and amortization charges for the year ended December 31, 2001 is approximately $0.4 million of amortization relating to goodwill.   Income from Operations  Income from operations increased 26% to $23.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $18.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Contributing to such improvement were higher net telephone service revenues, offset by higher operating and maintenance and depreciation and amortization expenses.  Foreign Exchange Gains  Foreign exchange gains amounted to $8.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $5.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The foreign exchange gains for the year ended December 31, 2002 resulted primarily from the effect of the appreciation of the Hungarian forint on the Company’s average EUR 71.9 million and U.S. dollar 25 million denominated debt outstanding during the period. At December 31, 2002, the Hungarian forint had appreciated in value by 4.5% against the euro and by 23.9% against the U.S. dollar as compared to December 31, 2001. The foreign exchange gains for the year ended December 31, 2001 resulted primarily from the effect of the appreciation of the Hungarian forint on the Company’s average EUR 84.3 million denominated debt outstanding during that period. At December 31, 2001, the Hungarian forint had appreciated in value by 7.6% against the euro and by 2.0% against the U.S. dollar as compared to December 31, 2000. Included in foreign exchange gains for the year ended December 31, 2001 is approximately $0.7 million of foreign exchange losses relating to the Company’s foreign currency forward contracts. When non-Hungarian forint debt is re-measured into Hungarian forints, the Company reports foreign exchange gains/losses in its consolidated financial statements as the Hungarian forint appreciates/devalues against such non-forint currencies. See “- Inflation and Foreign Currency,”   and Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Market Risk Exposure.”  Interest Expense  Interest expense decreased 24% to $10.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. This $3.2 million decrease is attributable to lower interest rates paid on the Company’s borrowings, as well as lower average debt levels outstanding between the periods. The Company’s weighted average interest rate on the Company’s debt obligations went from 8.48% for the year ended December 31, 2001, to 6.80% for the year ended December 31, 2002, a 20% decrease. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section below.  Interest Income  Interest income decreased to $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, primarily due to lower interest rates on Hungarian forint deposits during the period.   Income Tax Benefit  Based on the level of historical taxable income and projections of future taxable income over the periods in which the Company’s deferred tax assets are deductible, management believes it is more likely than not that the Company will realize some of the benefits of those deductible differences. As a result of this assessment, the Company recognized a deferred tax benefit of $5.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. No such benefit was recognized by the Company for the year ended December 31, 2001.  The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the future if estimates of future taxable income during the future periods are reduced. Management considers projected future taxable income and tax planning in making these assessments.    29   Net Income  As a result of the factors discussed above, the Company recorded net income attributable to common stockholders of $27.2 million, or $2.25 per share, or $2.17 per share on a diluted basis, for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to $11.0 million, or $0.91 per share, or $0.89 per share on a diluted basis, for the year ended December 31, 2001.   Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2001 to Year Ended December 31, 2000  The Company’s Hungarian subsidiary’s functional currency is the Hungarian forint. The average Hungarian forint/U.S. dollar exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2001 was 286.49, as compared to an average Hungarian forint/U.S. dollar exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2000 of 281.10. When comparing the year ended December 31, 2001 to the year ended December 31, 2000, it should be noted that all U.S. dollar reported amounts have been affected by this 2% devaluation in the Hungarian subsidiary’s functional currency.  Net Revenues                         Year ended                                               (dollars in millions)             2001             2000                                                           Measured service revenues             $      29.2             $      30.7                 Subscription revenues             16.1             13.1                 Interconnect charges:                                             Incoming             2.8             3.6                 Outgoing             (9.3      )      (10.1      )                                                    Net             (6.5      )      (6.5      )                                                    Net measured service and subscription revenues             38.8             37.3                 Connection fees             2.2             2.1                 Other operating revenues, net             4.2             3.6                                                           Telephone Service Revenues, Net             $      45.2             $      43.0                                                                    The Company recorded a 5% increase in net telephone service revenues to $45.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $43.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000.  Net measured service and subscription revenues increased to $38.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $37.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Measured service revenues decreased 5% to $29.2 million in 2001 from $30.7 million in 2000, while subscription revenues increased 23% to $16.1 million in 2001 from $13.1 million in 2000. Measured service revenues decreased in functional currency terms by approximately 3% due to an average 3.6% decrease in call tariffs between 2000 and 2001 as a result of continued tariff re-balancing which was introduced during 2000, offset by an increase in average access lines in service from approximately 202,400 for the year ended December 31, 2000 to approximately 204,900 for the year ended December 31, 2001. Subscription revenues increased in functional currency terms by approximately 25% as a result of continued tariff re-balancing. Under tariff re-balancing, a more cost-driven payment structure is envisaged, with the actual monthly subscription fees increasing to cover network infrastructure expenses over time. In Hungary, as in many other countries over the past several years, cheaper local call charges have been subsidized by expensive international and domestic long-distance calls. The overall effect on a gross revenue basis for the Company and the telecom industry as a whole is expected to be neutral. The increase in subscription revenues in functional currency terms has been offset to an extent by the approximate 2% devaluation of the functional currency between the periods and, therefore, subscription revenues show only a 23% increase in U.S. dollar terms.   These revenues have been reduced by net interconnect charges, which totaled $6.5 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000. As a percentage of call and subscription revenues, net interconnect charges have declined from 14.8% for the year ended December 31, 2000 to 14.3% for the year ended December 31, 2001.   30   Other operating revenues, which include revenues generated from the provision of direct lines, operator services and other miscellaneous telephone service revenues, increased 17% to $4.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared to $3.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000.    Operating and Maintenance Expenses  Operating and maintenance expenses increased 3% to $17.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared to $17.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. In functional currency terms, operating and maintenance expenses increased approximately 9% for the year ended December 31, 2001, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2000, due to inflationary increases in costs. In U.S. dollar terms, however, the increase in such costs in functional currency terms has been offset by the 2% devaluation of the Hungarian forint between the periods and a reduction in the Company’s U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses between the periods.    Depreciation  and Amortization  Depreciation and amortization charges remained consistent at $9.4 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000. Depreciation and amortization charges increased in functional currency terms by approximately 2% due to additional capital expenditures during the period.   Income from Operations  Income from operations increased 11% to $18.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $16.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Contributing to such improvement were higher net telephone service revenues, partially offset by slightly higher operating and maintenance expenses.  Foreign Exchange Gains (Losses)  Foreign exchange gains amounted to $5.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to foreign exchange losses of $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The foreign exchange gains resulted primarily from the appreciation of the Hungarian forint against the Company’s average EUR 84.3 million denominated debt outstanding during the period. At December 31, 2001, the Hungarian forint had appreciated in value by approximately 7% against the euro and by approximately 2% against the U.S. dollar as compared to January 1, 2001. Included in foreign exchange gains for the year ended December 31, 2001 is approximately $0.7 million of foreign exchange losses relating to the Company’s foreign currency forward contracts. When non-Hungarian forint debt is re-measured into Hungarian forints, the Company reports foreign exchange gains/losses in its consolidated financial statements as the Hungarian forint appreciates/devalues against such non-forint currencies.  Interest Expense  Interest expense decreased 27% to $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $18.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. This $4.9 million decrease is attributable to lower interest rates paid on the Company’s borrowings. The decrease results from the Company’s medium-term credit facility entered into in April 2000, pursuant to which the Company’s borrowings went from being mostly Hungarian forint denominated to mostly euro denominated, and the Company’s weighted average interest rate on its debt obligations went from 10.70% for the year ended December 31, 2000, to 8.48% for the year ended December 31, 2001, a 21% decrease. Included in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2000 is approximately $1.6 million of amortization of forward points on forward foreign currency contracts accounted for under SFAS 52. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS 133 and SFAS 138 on January 1, 2001 and the foreign currency forward contracts the Company entered into during 2001 do not qualify for hedge accounting as defined under SFAS 133 and SFAS 138.    31   Interest Income  Interest income decreased to $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 from $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, primarily due to lower interest rates on Hungarian forint deposits during the period.   Net Income (Loss)  As a result of the factors discussed above, the Company recorded net income attributable to common stockholders of $11.0 million, or $0.91 per share, or $0.89 per share on a diluted basis, for the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared to a net loss attributable to common stockholders of $5.4 million, or $0.45 per share on a basic and diluted basis, for the year ended December 31, 2000.  Liquidity and Capital Resources   The Company has historically funded its capital requirements primarily through a combination of debt, equity and vendor financing. The ongoing development and installation of the network in each of the Company’s operating areas required significant capital expenditures ($201 million at historical exchange rates through December 31, 2002). Since the end of 1998, the Company’s networks have had the capacity, with only normal capital expenditure requirements, to provide basic telephone services to virtually all of the potential subscribers within the areas in which it operates.   On April 11, 2000, the Company entered into an EUR 130 million Senior Secured Debt Facility Agreement (the “Debt Agreement” or “Credit Facility”) with a European banking syndicate. The Company drew down EUR 129 million of the Facility on April 20, 2000 ($121 million at April 20, 2000 exchange rates), which funds were used, along with $7.3 million of other Company funds (at April 20, 2000 exchange rates), to pay off the entire outstanding EUR 134 million (approximately $126 million at April 20, 2000 exchange rates) principal and interest due on the Company’s previous loan which was due to mature on May 12, 2000, and to pay fees associated with the Debt Agreement. As of December 31, 2002, the Company has repaid approximately $30.6 million, at historical exchange rates, of the original EUR 129 million drawn down. The Company believes that it will be able to continue to generate sufficient cash flow to allow it to continue to meet its working capital needs, including its obligations under the Debt Agreement.   The Debt Agreement has two facilities. Facility A is a floating rate term loan in the amount of EUR 125 million (the “Term Facility”) which principal is repayable in installments semi-annually on each June 30 and December 31 which began on June 30, 2001 and ends on December 31, 2007. The amounts of the principal repayments on the Term Facility are to be escalating percentages of the amounts drawn down. The Company borrowed the full EUR 125 million, of which EUR 84.1 million was funded in, and is repayable in, euros and the equivalent of EUR 40.9 million was funded in, and is repayable in, Hungarian forints. The portion of the Term Facility loan denominated in euros accrues interest at the rate of the Applicable Margin (defined below) plus the EURIBOR rate for the applicable interest period. The EURIBOR rate is the percentage rate per annum determined by the Banking Federation of the European Union for the applicable interest period. The portion of the Term Facility loan denominated in Hungarian forints accrues interest at the rate of the Applicable Margin (defined below) plus the BUBOR rate for the applicable interest period. The BUBOR rate is the percentage rate per annum determined according to the rules established by the Hungarian Forex Association and published by the National Bank of Hungary for the applicable interest period. The applicable interest period for the portion of the Term Facility loan denominated in euros can be one, three or six months at the Company’s discretion. The applicable interest period for the portion of Term Facility loan denominated in Hungarian forints can be one or three months at the Company’s discretion. Interest is payable at the end of each interest period. The Applicable Margin is initially 1.75%. The Applicable Margin may be adjusted downward incrementally to a minimum of 1.30%, subject to the financial performance of the Company as measured by the ratio of the Company’s senior debt to its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”). Dependent on its cash flow, the Company will be required to prepay the equivalent of $25 million on the Term Facility until such time as $25 million has been prepaid. The amount of the prepayment in any year shall be at least 50% of the Company’s excess cash flow, if any, for the previous financial year as defined in the Debt Agreement. The prepayment amount is due within 15 days of the publication of each annual Form 10-K filing. Based upon the Company’s financial performance during 2002, an excess cash flow prepayment of $2,525,000, at December 31, 2002 exchange rates, will be made.   32   Facility B was a floating rate revolving loan in the amount of EUR 5 million (the “Revolving Facility”) which could only be drawn down in euros. The Revolving Facility was scheduled to be reduced to EUR 2.5 million on December 31, 2005. The Revolving Facility was originally available until December 31, 2007. The Company borrowed EUR 4 million of the Revolving Facility on April 20, 2000. On November 9, 2001, the Company and its bank lenders under the Debt Agreement amended the Debt Agreement. In connection with the amendment, the Company agreed to cancel, with immediate affect, the EUR 1 million undrawn portion of the Revolving Facility. At the same time, the Company also agreed to cancel the EUR 4 million revolving loan outstanding following the scheduled repayment of such principal and accrued interest in April 2002. After May 31, 2002, the Company may request that the banking syndicate reinstate the EUR 5 million Revolving Facility. However, any such reinstatement would be at the discretion of each member of the banking syndicate individually with regard to its original commitment at April 11, 2000. The amended agreement allows for those lenders participating in the reinstatement of the revolver to increase their individual commitments such that, in the aggregate, all of the lenders participating in the reinstated Revolving Facility could provide up to the original revolver amount of EUR 5 million. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had not requested reinstatement of the EUR 5 million Revolving Facility.  The Company and Citibank Rt. (as security agent) have entered into a series of agreements to secure all of the Company’s obligations under the Debt Agreement pursuant to which the Company has pledged all of its intangible and tangible assets, including HTCC’s ownership interests in its subsidiary, and its real property. The Company is subject to restrictive covenants, including restrictions regarding the ability of the Company to pay dividends, borrow funds, merge and dispose of its assets. The Debt Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and customary events of default, including those related to a change of control, which would trigger early repayment of the balance under the Debt Agreement. If, prior to the Trigger Date (the date on which for the prior two fiscal quarters the Company’s debt to EBITDA ratio is less than 2.5 to 1), TDC sells any of the shares of Common Stock that it currently owns such that its shareholding is no longer at least 30.1% of the outstanding Common Stock, then an event of default shall have occurred. Tele Danmark currently owns a total of 31.9% of the outstanding Common Stock. Following the Trigger Date, Tele Danmark can only transfer its shares with the prior written consent of banks holding at least 66.7% of the Company’s outstanding debt under the Debt Agreement without triggering an event of default under the Debt Agreement.  The Company had 12,103,180 shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2002, which were held by the following parties in the percentages indicated: Postabank 20.1%; TDC 31.9%; Citizens 19.1%; and others 28.9%. On a fully-diluted basis, the Company has 15,839,372 shares outstanding, which were held by the following parties in the percentages indicated: Postabank 31.1%; Tele Danmark 24.4%; Citizens 16.5%; and others 28.0%.  Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $24.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities between the two periods is due to, among other things, (i) a decrease of approximately $2 million in the amount of interest paid on the Company’s debt obligations in 2002, as compared to 2001, due to a change in the dates when interest was paid, (ii) lower average debt levels and interest rates and (iii)  the translation effects of the 11% appreciation of the Hungarian forint versus the U.S. dollar between the two periods.  For the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company used $4.3 million and $7.0 million, respectively, in investing activities, which was primarily used to fund additions to the Company’s telecommunications networks. Financing activities used net cash of $17.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $13.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The cash used by financing activities was for the scheduled repayments of the Company’s short-term and long-term debt obligations.                 The Company has the following major contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2002 (at December 31, 2002 exchange rates):    33                          Cash Payments Due by Period   (in thousands)                                               Obligation                    Total             1 Year or   Less             2–3 Years             4-5 Years             After 5   Years                                                                                                                                                                                              Long Term Debt             $      123,562             21,397             40,440             61,725             —                 Operating Leases             2,748             524             1,074             1,150             —                 Construction Commitments             1,723             875             848             —             —                                                                                               Total             $      128,033                    22,796                    42,362                    62,875                    —                                                                                                                       The Company’s ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet its contractual cash obligations is subject to many factors, including regulatory developments, macroeconomic factors, competition and customer behavior and acceptance of additional fixed line telecommunications services. Under the Company’s Debt Agreement, the Company must maintain certain levels of earnings before interest, foreign exchange gains/losses, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) and cash flow in order to allow it to comply with its debt covenant ratios as set out in the Debt Agreement. Until March 31, 2002, the ratios were calculated based on the Company’s U.S. dollar consolidated financial statements. With effect from June 30, 2002, the ratios are calculated based on the Company’s U.S. dollar consolidated financial statements translated into euros. This exposes the Company to the possible risk of not meeting its debt covenant ratios, as measured in euro terms, due to the effect of currency movements on translation of its Hungarian forint denominated assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into euros. While management seeks to manage the business to be in compliance with its Debt Agreement and related covenants, management operates in a regulated environment which is subject to many factors outside of its control (i.e. the government’s political, social and public policy agenda). The Company’s liquidity may also be affected by exchange rate fluctuations due to approximately 71% of its debt not being denominated in Hungarian forints. The Company attempts to reduce this exchange rate risk, when deemed cost effective, through the use of forward hedging contracts.  Inflation and Foreign Currency  For the year ended December 31, 2002, inflation in Hungary was approximately 5.3% on an annualized basis. It is the stated policy goal of the Hungarian government to keep inflation from exceeding approximately 5% in 2003. In May 2001, the National Bank of Hungary widened the trading band the Hungarian forint is allowed to trade within from +/- 2.25% of the mid-point of the band to +/- 15%. This widening caused the Hungarian forint to initially appreciate in value against the euro by approximately 4%. Subsequent to the band widening, and without any notice, in June 2001 the National Bank of Hungary lifted all remaining foreign exchange restrictions concerning the Hungarian forint, thus making the Hungarian forint fully and freely convertible. With the widening of the trading band, the potential volatility of the Hungarian forint has increased as is evidenced by the movements in the foreign exchange rates. The Hungarian forint/U.S. dollar exchange rate decreased to 225.16 as of December 31, 2002, as compared to an exchange rate of 279.03 as of December 31, 2001, an effective year-on-year appreciation of 24%. See Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Market Risk Exposure.”  The Company’s Hungarian operations generate revenues in Hungarian forints and incur operating and other expenses, including capital expenditures, predominately in Hungarian forints but also in U.S. dollars and euros. In addition, certain of the Company’s balance sheet accounts are denominated in currencies other than the Hungarian forint, the functional currency of the Company’s Hungarian subsidiaries. Accordingly, when such accounts are translated into Hungarian forints, the Company is subject to foreign exchange gains and losses which are reflected as a component of net income. When the subsidiaries’ forint-denominated financial statements are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes, the Company is subject to translation adjustments, the effect of which is reflected as a component of stockholders’ equity.    While the Company has the ability to increase the prices it charges for its services generally commensurate with increases in the Hungarian Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) pursuant to its licenses from the Hungarian government, and as regulated by the government, it may choose not to implement the full amount of the increase permitted due to competitive and other concerns. In addition, the rate of increase in the Hungarian CPI may not be sufficient to offset potential negative exchange rate movements and as a result, the Company may be unable to generate cash flows to the degree necessary to meet its obligations in currencies other than the Hungarian forint.   34   Prospective Accounting Pronouncements   In June 2001, FASB issued SFAS No. 143,  Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.  SFAS No. 143 requires the Company to record the fair value of an asset retirement obligation as a liability in the period in which it incurs a legal obligation associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development, and/or normal use of the assets. The Company also records a corresponding asset that is depreciated over the life of the asset. Subsequent to the initial measurement of the asset retirement obligation, the obligation will be adjusted at the end of each period to reflect the passage of time and changes in the estimated future cash flows underlying the obligation. The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003. The adoption of SFAS No. 143 is not expected to have a material affect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or financial position.  In April 2002, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued SFAS No. 145 (“SFAS 145”), “Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections”. SFAS 145 provides for the rescission of several previously issued accounting standards, new accounting guidance for the accounting for certain lease modifications and various technical corrections that are not substantive in nature to existing pronouncements. SFAS 145 will be adopted beginning January 1, 2003, except for the provisions relating to the amendment of SFAS No. 13, which was adopted for transactions occurring subsequent to May 15, 2002. Management does not believe at this time that this Statement will have a material affect on its consolidated results of operations or financial position.  On July 30, 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146 (“SFAS 146”), “Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities”. SFAS 146 nullifies Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94-3 (“EITF Issue No. 94-3”), “Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)”. SFAS 146 requires that a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity should be recorded when it is incurred and initial measurement be at fair value. The statement is effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after December 31, 2002, although earlier adoption is encouraged. Management does not believe at this time that this Statement will have a material affect on its consolidated results of operations or financial position.  In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness to Others ,  an interpretation of FASB Statements No. 5, 57 and 107 and a rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34 . This Interpretation elaborates on the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under guarantees issued. The Interpretation also clarifies that a guarantor is required to recognize, at inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken. The initial recognition and measurement provisions of the Interpretation are applicable to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002 and are not expected to have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements of interim and annual periods ending after December 31, 2002. Management does not believe at this time that this Statement will have an affect on its consolidated results of operations or financial position.  In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46,  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an interpretation of ARB No. 51.  This Interpretation addresses the consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities as defined in the Interpretation. The Interpretation applies immediately to variable interests in variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003, and to variable interests in variable interest entities obtained after January 31, 2003. For nonpublic enterprises, with a variable interest in a variable interest entity created before February 1, 2003, the Interpretation is applied to the enterprise no later than the end of the first annual reporting period beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company does not use variable interest entities, therefore the application of this Interpretation is not expected to have a material affect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or financial position.  Item 7A.     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  The Company is exposed to various types of risk in the normal course of its business, including the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and interest rate changes. Company operations, including all revenues and approximately 88% of operating expenses are Hungarian forint based and are therefore subject to exchange rate variability between the Hungarian forint and the U.S. dollar. Due to the lifting of all foreign exchange restrictions    35   concerning the Hungarian forint in May 2001 and the volatility in euro/U.S. dollar exchange rates, Hungarian forint/euro and Hungarian forint/U.S. dollar exchange rate variability has increased. This increase in variability is evident by the fact that the Hungarian forint/U.S. dollar exchange rate went from 247.36 as of September 30, 2002 to 225.16 as of December 31, 2002, an approximate 10% appreciation in value. At the same time, the Hungarian forint/euro exchange rate went from 243.28 as of September 30, 2002 to 235.9 as of December 31, 2002, an approximate 3% appreciation in value.  The debt obligations of the Company are Hungarian forint, euro and U.S. dollar denominated. The interest rate on the Hungarian forint debt obligations is based on the Budapest Bank Offer Rate (BUBOR). The interest rates on the euro and U.S. dollar denominated obligations are based on EURIBOR and USD LIBOR, respectively. Over the medium to long term, the BUBOR rate is expected to follow inflation and devaluation trends and the Company does not currently believe it has any material interest rate risk on any of its Hungarian forint denominated debt obligations. If a 1% change in the BUBOR interest rate were to occur, the Company’s interest expense would increase or decrease by approximately $0.4 million annually based upon the Company’s December 31, 2002 debt level. If a 1% change in EURIBOR interest rates were to occur, the Company’s interest expense would increase or decrease by approximately $0.7 million annually based upon the Company’s December 31, 2002 debt level. If a 1% change in USD LIBOR interest rates were to occur, the Company’s interest expense would increase or decrease by approximately $0.3 million annually based upon the Company’s December 31, 2002 debt level.    The Company is exposed to exchange rate risk insofar as the Company has debt obligations in currencies other than the functional currency of its Hungarian subsidiaries. Given the Company’s debt obligations, which include euro and U.S. dollar denominated debt, if a 5% change in Hungarian forint/euro exchange rates were to occur, the Company’s euro denominated debt, in U.S. dollar terms, would increase or decrease by approximately $3.4 million, based upon the Company’s December 31, 2002 debt level. If a 5% change in Hungarian forint/U.S. dollar exchange rates were to occur, the Company’s foreign exchange rate gain or loss would increase or decrease by approximately $1.3 million based on Hungarotel’s U.S. dollar denominated borrowings from HTCC as of December 31, 2002.  The Company utilizes foreign currency forward contracts or purchases foreign currencies in advance to reduce its exposure to exchange rate risks associated with cash payments in euro maturing within six months under the Company’s long-term debt obligations. The forward contracts establish the exchange rates at which the Company will sell the contracted amount of Hungarian forints for euros at a future date. The Company utilizes forward contracts which are six months in duration and at maturity will either receive or pay the difference between the contracted forward rate and the exchange rate at the settlement date. The Company did not have any open foreign currency forwards at December 31, 2002. The counterparties to the Company’s foreign currency forward contracts are substantial and creditworthy multinational commercial banks which are recognized market makers. The risk of counterparty nonperformance associated with these contracts is not considered by the Company to be material.  Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 