Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 35   Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 51     Forward-Looking Statements 52   Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 53   Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 53   Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 53   Item 9B. Other Information 53         PART III.                 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 54   Item 11. Executive Compensation 54   Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 54   Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 54   Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 54         PART IV.                 Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 55   Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 56     -i- PART I Item 1. Business Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. General Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. ("ELS"), a Maryland corporation, together with MHC Operating Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership") and its other consolidated subsidiaries (the "Subsidiaries"), are referred to herein as "we," "us," and "our." We are a fully integrated owner and operator of lifestyle-oriented properties ("Properties") consisting primarily of manufactured home ("MH") and recreational vehicle ("RV") communities. We were formed in December 1992 to continue the property operations, business objectives and acquisition strategies of an entity that had owned and operated Properties since 1969. Commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1993, we have elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have a unique business model where we own the land upon which we provide our customers the opportunity to place factory-built homes including manufactured homes, cottages or RVs either on a long-term or short-term basis. Our customers may lease individual developed areas ("Sites") or enter into right-to-use contracts, also known as membership subscriptions, which provide them access to specific Properties for limited stays. Compared to other types of real estate companies, our business model is characterized by low maintenance costs and low customer turnover costs. Our portfolio is geographically diversified across highly desirable locations near retirement and vacation destinations and urban areas across the United States. We have more than 90 Properties with lake, river or ocean frontage and more than 120 Properties within 10 miles of the coastal United States. Our Properties generally attract retirees, vacationing families, second homeowners and first-time homebuyers by providing a community experience and a lower-cost home ownership alternative.  We are one of the nation's largest real estate networks with a portfolio of  413  Properties (including joint venture Properties) consisting of  156,513  Sites located throughout  33  states in the U.S. and British Columbia in Canada as of  December 31, 2019 . 1 Our Properties are designed and improved for housing options of various sizes and layouts that are produced off-site by third-party manufacturers, installed and set on designated Sites within the Properties. Manufactured homes and cottages can range from approximately 400 to over 2,000 square feet. Properties may also have Sites that can accommodate a variety of RVs. We also have marinas that offer boat slip and dry storage rentals. In addition to centralized entrances, internal road systems and designated Sites, our Properties generally provide a clubhouse for social activities and recreation and other amenities, which can include swimming pools, shuffleboard courts, tennis courts, pickleball courts, golf courses, lawn bowling, restaurants, laundry facilities, cable television and internet service. Some Properties provide utilities, including water and sewer service, through municipal or regulated utilities, while others provide these services to customers from on-site facilities.  Employees and Organizational Structure We have an annual average of approximately  4,200  full-time, part-time and seasonal employees dedicated to carrying out our operating philosophy while focusing on delivering an exceptional customer experience for our residents and guests. Our property operations are managed internally by affiliates of the Operating Partnership and are coordinated by an on-site team of employees that typically includes a manager, clerical staff and maintenance workers, each of whom works to provide maintenance and care to the Properties. The on-site team at each Property also provides customer service and may coordinate lifestyle-oriented activities for our residents and guests. Direct supervision of on-site management is the responsibility of our regional vice presidents and regional and district managers, who have substantial experience addressing customer needs and creating innovative approaches to maximize value for residents and guests, which we believe also creates value for our stockholders, through focused and effective property management. Complementing the field management staff are approximately  400  full-time corporate and regional employees who assist in all functions related to the management of our Properties. Our Formation Our Properties are primarily owned by our Operating Partnership and managed internally by affiliates of our Operating Partnership. We are the general partner of the Operating Partnership. We contributed the proceeds from our various equity offerings, including our initial public offering, to the Operating Partnership. In exchange for these contributions, we received units of common interests in the partnership ("OP Units") equal to the number of shares of common stock that have been issued in such equity offerings.  We have elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Since certain activities, if performed by us, may not be qualifying REIT activities under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), we have formed taxable REIT subsidiaries (each, a "TRS") to engage in such activities. Realty Systems, Inc. ("RSI") is our wholly-owned TRS, which owns several Properties. Additionally, RSI is engaged in the business of purchasing, selling and leasing factory-built homes located in Properties owned and managed by us. RSI also offers home sale brokerage services to our residents who may choose to sell their homes rather than relocate them when moving from a Property. Subsidiaries of RSI also operate ancillary activities at certain Properties, such as golf courses, pro shops, stores and restaurants.  The financial results of the Operating Partnership and Subsidiaries are included in our consolidated financial statements, which can be found beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K. Business Objectives and Operating Strategies Our primary business objective is to create value for stockholders through effective management of the Properties. Our operating strategy is to own and operate the highest quality Properties in sought-after locations near retirement and vacation destinations and urban areas across the United States. Through management of desirable Properties that provide an exceptional customer experience, we create communities valued by residents and guests while delivering value for stockholders. We focus on Properties that have strong cash flows and plan to hold such Properties for long-term investment and capital appreciation. In determining cash flow potential, we evaluate our ability to attract high quality customers to our Properties and retain customers who take pride in the Property and in their homes. Our operating, investment and financing strategies include: • Consistently providing high levels of services and amenities in attractive surroundings to foster a strong sense of community and pride of home ownership; • Efficiently managing the Properties to add value, grow occupancy, maintain competitive market rents and control expenses; • Achieving growth and increasing property values through strategic expansion and, where appropriate, renovation of the Properties; • Utilizing technology to evaluate potential acquisitions, identify and track competing properties and monitor existing and prospective customer satisfaction; 2 • Selectively acquiring properties that offer opportunities for us to add value and enhance or create property concentrations in and around retirement or vacation destinations and urban areas to capitalize on operating synergies and incremental efficiencies; • Selecting joint venture partners that share business objectives, growth initiatives, and risk profiles similar to ours; • Managing our debt balance in order to maintain financial flexibility, minimize exposure to interest rate fluctuations and maintain an appropriate degree of leverage to maximize return on capital; and  • Developing and maintaining relationships with various capital providers. These business objectives and their implementation were determined by our management team and ratified by our Board of Directors and may be subject to change or amendment at any time. Acquisitions and Dispositions We invest in properties in sought-after locations near retirement and vacation destinations and urban areas across the United States with a focus on delivering value for residents and guests as well as stockholders. Over the last decade, we have continued to increase the number of Properties in our portfolio (including joint venture Properties), from approximately  304  Properties with over  110,500  Sites to  413  Properties with over  156,500  Sites as of  December 31, 2019 . During the year ended  December 31, 2019 , we acquired  four  Properties (all RV communities) with approximately  1,614  Sites. We also completed the acquisition of the remaining interest in a joint venture investment of 11 marinas in Florida. We continually review the Properties in our portfolio to ensure we are delivering on our business and customer service objectives. Over the last five years, we redeployed capital to Properties in markets we believe have greater long-term potential and sold five all-age MH communities located in Indiana and Michigan that were not aligned with our long-term goals. We believe there continues to be opportunities for property acquisitions. Based on industry reports, we estimate there are approximately 50,000 manufactured home properties and approximately 8,000 RV properties (excluding government owned properties) in North America. Many of these properties are not operated by large owners/operators, and approximately 3,700 of the manufactured home properties and 1,100 of the RV properties contain 200 sites or more. We believe this relatively high degree of fragmentation provides us the opportunity to purchase additional properties. We also believe we have a competitive advantage in the acquisition of additional properties due to our experienced management, significant presence in major real estate markets and access to capital resources. We are actively seeking to acquire and are engaged at any time in various stages of negotiations relating to the possible acquisition of additional properties, which may include outstanding contracts to acquire properties that are subject to the satisfactory completion of our due diligence review. We anticipate that new acquisitions will generally be located in the United States, although we may consider other geographic locations provided they meet our acquisition criteria. We utilize market information systems to identify and evaluate acquisition opportunities, including the use of a market database to review the primary economic indicators of the various locations in which we expect to expand our operations.  Acquisitions will be financed from the most efficient available sources of capital, which may include undistributed Funds from Operations ("FFO"), issuance of additional equity securities, sales of investments, collateralized and uncollateralized borrowings and issuance of debt securities. In addition, we have acquired and expect to acquire properties in transactions that include the issuance of OP Units as consideration for the acquired properties. We believe that an ownership structure that includes our Operating Partnership has permitted and will permit us to acquire additional properties in transactions that may defer all or a portion of the sellers' tax consequences. When evaluating potential acquisitions, we consider, among others, the following factors: • Current and projected cash flows of the property; • Geographic area and the type of property; • Replacement cost of the property, including land values, entitlements and zoning; • Location, construction quality, condition and design of the property; • Potential for capital appreciation of the property; • Terms of tenant leases or usage rights; • Opportunity to enhance the customer experience and add value through management expertise; • Potential for economies of scale through property concentrations; • Potential for economic growth and the tax and regulatory environment of the community in which the property is located; • Potential for expansion, including increasing the number of Sites; • Occupancy and demand by customers for properties of a similar type in the vicinity; • Prospects for liquidity through sale, financing or refinancing of the property;  3 • Competition from existing properties and the potential for the construction of new properties in the area; and • Working capital demands. When evaluating potential dispositions, we consider, among others, the following factors: • Whether the Property meets our current investment criteria; • Our desire to exit certain non-core markets and reallocate the capital into core markets; and • Our ability to sell the Property at a price that we believe will provide an appropriate return for our stockholders. When investing capital, we consider all potential uses of the capital, including returning capital to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors periodically reviews the conditions under which we may repurchase our stock. These conditions include, but are not limited to, market price, balance sheet flexibility, other opportunities and capital requirements. Property Expansions Development - Current Portfolio.  An integral part of our growth and investment strategy is to evaluate each Property for expansion opportunities. Investment evaluation consists of reviewing the following: local market conditions, demographic trends, zoning and entitlements, infrastructure requirements, financial feasibility, projected performance and property operations. When justified, development of land available for expansion ("Expansion Sites") allows us to leverage existing facilities and amenities. We believe our ability to increase density translates to greater value creation and cash flows through operational efficiencies. Overall, approximately  125  of our Properties have potential Expansion Sites, offering approximately  5,300  available acres. Refer to Item 2. Properties, which includes detail regarding the developable acres available at each property. Acquisition - Expanding Portfolio.  In selecting acquisition targets, we pursue properties with existing operations in place and contiguous Expansion Sites. Underwriting a project with these features allows us to access the previously untapped potential of such properties. For example, over the past three years, we have acquired  26  Properties and  four  vacant land parcels that contain approximately  194  acres for future expansion. Leases or Usage Rights At our Properties, a typical lease for the rental of a Site between us and the owner or renter of a home is month-to-month or for a one-year term, renewable upon the consent of both parties or, in some instances, as provided by statute. These leases are cancelable, depending on applicable law, for non-payment of rent, violation of Property rules and regulations or other specified defaults. Long-term leases are in effect at approximately  9,250  Sites in  15  of our Properties. Some of these leases are subject to rental rate increases based on the Consumer Price Index ("CPI"), in some instances allowing for pass-throughs of certain items such as real estate taxes, utility expenses and capital expenditures. Generally, adjustments to our rental rates, if appropriate, are made on an annual basis. In Florida, in connection with offering a Site in a MH community for rent, the MH community owner must deliver to the prospective resident a Prospectus required by Florida Statutes Chapter 723.001, et. seq., which must be approved by the applicable regulatory agency. The Prospectus contains certain required disclosures regarding the community, the rights and obligations of the MH community owner and residents, and a copy of the lease agreement. A Prospectus may contain limitations on the rights of the MH community owner to increase rental rates. However, in the absence of such limitations, the MH community owner may increase rental rates to market, subject to certain advance notice requirements and a statutory requirement that the rental rates be reasonable. See further discussion below related to rent control legislation. At Properties zoned for RV use, we have long-term relationships with many of our seasonal and transient residents and guests, who typically enter into short-term rental agreements. Generally, these residents and guests cannot live full time on these Properties for reasons including their seasonal nature. Many of them also leave deposits to reserve a Site for the following year. Properties operated under the Thousand Trails brand are primarily utilized to serve subscription members. Available Sites within these Properties may also be utilized by non-members. A membership subscription grants the member access to these Properties on a continuous basis of up to 14 days in exchange for an annual payment. In addition, members are eligible to upgrade their subscriptions, which increase usage rights during the membership term. Each membership upgrade requires a non-refundable upfront payment, for which we offer financing options to eligible members. Most of the subscription contracts provide for an annual dues increase, usually based on increases in the CPI.  4 Regulations and Insurance General . Our Properties are subject to a variety of laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to recreational facilities such as swimming pools, clubhouses and other common areas, regulations relating to providing utility services, such as electricity, and regulations relating to operating water and wastewater treatment facilities at certain Properties. We believe that each Property has all material permits and approvals necessary to operate. We renew these permits and approvals in the ordinary course of business. Insurance . Our Properties are insured against risks that may cause property damage and business interruption, including events such as fire, flood, earthquake, or windstorm. The relevant insurance policies contain deductible requirements, coverage limits and particular exclusions. Our current property and casualty insurance policies with respect to our MH and RV Properties, which we plan to renew, expire on April 1, 2020. We have a $100.0 million loss limit per occurrence with respect to our MH and RV all-risk property insurance program including named windstorms. This loss limit is subject to additional sub-limits as set forth in the policy form, including, among others, a $25 million aggregate loss limit for earthquakes in California. The deductibles for this policy primarily range from a $500,000 minimum to 5.0% per unit of insurance for most catastrophic events. For most catastrophic events, there is an additional one-time $500,000 aggregate deductible. We have separate insurance policies with respect to the 11 Florida marinas as to which we acquired the remaining interest on September 10, 2019. Those policies, which we plan to renew, expire on November 1, 2020, and the property insurance program has a minimum deductible of $100,000. A deductible indicates our maximum exposure, subject to policy limits and sub-limits, in the event of a loss. Rent Control Legislation . At certain Properties, state and local rent control laws dictate the structure of rent increases and, in some cases, outline the ability to recover the costs of capital improvements. Enactment of such laws has been considered at various times in other jurisdictions. We presently expect to continue to maintain Properties and may purchase additional properties in markets that are either subject to rent control or in which rent related legislation exists or may be enacted. For example, Florida law requires that rental increases be reasonable, and Delaware law requires rental increases greater than the changes in the CPI to be justified. Also, certain jurisdictions in California in which we own Properties limit rent increases to changes in the CPI or some percentage of the CPI. As part of our effort to realize the value of Properties subject to restrictive regulations, we have initiated lawsuits at times against various municipalities imposing such regulations in an attempt to balance the interests of our stockholders with the interests of our residents and guests. Membership Properties.  Many states also have consumer protection laws regulating right-to-use or campground membership sales and the financing of such sales. Some states have laws requiring us to register with a state agency and obtain a permit to market (see Item 1A. Risk Factors). At certain Properties primarily used as membership campgrounds, state statutes limit our ability to close a Property unless a reasonable substitute Property is made available for members to use.  Industry We believe that demand for manufactured housing and RV communities will continue to outpace supply in the near future. We expect much of this demand will continue to come from baby boomers, who may seek an active RV lifestyle or a permanent retirement or vacation establishment. In addition, we expect the exposure to Millennials and Generation X will contribute to the demand, as these groups focus on affordability, prefer housing quality over size and pursue unique experiences. We believe that our Properties and our business model provide an attractive destination for customers as they seek value in their housing and recreational options. Positive trends in categories such as customer demographics, the quality of manufactured housing construction and limited property supply, among others, fuel our belief that our Properties are well positioned for the future: • Barriers to Entry:  We believe that the supply of new properties in locations we target will be constrained by barriers to entry. While we have seen a moderate increase in ground-up development, primarily of RV properties, the most significant barrier continues to be the difficulty of securing zoning permits from local authorities. This has been the result of (i) the public perception of manufactured housing, and (ii) the fact that MH and RV communities generate less tax revenue than conventional housing properties because the homes are treated as personal property (a benefit to the homeowner) rather than real property. Further, the length of time between investment in a property's development and the attainment of stabilized occupancy and the generation of profit is significant. The initial development of the infrastructure may take up to three years and once a property is ready for occupancy, it may be difficult to attract customers to an empty property. • Customer Base : We believe that properties tend to achieve and maintain a stable rate of occupancy due to the following factors: (i) customers typically own their own homes, (ii) properties tend to foster a sense of community as a result of amenities, such as clubhouses and recreational and social activities, (iii) customers often sell their homes in-place (similar to site-built residential housing), resulting in no interruption of rental payments to us, and (iv) moving a factory-built home from one property to another involves substantial cost and effort. 5 • Lifestyle Choice : There are currently over 1 million RV camp sites in privately owned RV parks and campgrounds in the United States per the National Association of RV Parks and Campgrounds ("ARVC"). According to the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association ("RVIA") in 2019, RV ownership has reached record levels. More than nine million households now own an RV, a 16% increase since 2011 and a 64% increase since 1980. The 73 million people born in the United States from 1946 to 1964, or "baby boomers," make up one of the largest and fastest growing segments in this market. According to the U.S. Census Bureau in 2019, every day 10,000 Americans turn 65 years old, and all baby boomers will be at least age 65 by 2030. We believe that this population segment, seeking an active lifestyle, will provide opportunities for our future growth. As RV owners age and move beyond the more active RV lifestyle, they will often seek permanent retirement or vacation establishments. Manufactured homes and cottages have become an increasingly popular housing alternative. According to 2018 U.S. Census Bureau National Population Projections figures, the population of people ages 55 and older is expected to grow  18%  within the next  15  years.  We believe that the housing choices in our Properties are especially attractive to such individuals throughout this lifestyle cycle. Our Properties offer an appealing amenity package, close proximity to local services, social activities, low maintenance and a secure environment. In fact, many of our Properties allow for this cycle to occur within a single Property. Additionally, RV sales are expected to benefit from an increase in demand from those born in the United States from 1980 to 1995, or "Millennials," over the coming years, according to the RVIA. The number of consumers between age 30 and 45 is expected to total 72 million by 2025, 13% higher than in 2015. Data collected on RV retail registrations found the share of RV ownership has increased in the younger age brackets between 2015 and 2018. RV ownership for those aged 35 to 44 increased from 18.4% in 2015 to 20.8% in 2018. For those aged 25 to 34, RV ownership increased from 5.0% in 2015 to 8.1% in 2018. The consumers most likely to purchase RVs, according to a study conducted with Nielsen in 2016 by Go RVing, a coalition of RV industry trade groups, are families searching for adventures, individuals looking for locations with natural beauty and opportunities for outdoor sports and recreation, and kid-free adult adventurers enjoying the freedom, convenience and low-cost options of RVs. • Construction Quality:  The Department of Housing and Urban Development's ("HUD") standards for manufactured housing construction quality are the only federal standards governing housing quality of any type in the United States. Manufactured homes produced since 1976 have received a "red and silver" government seal certifying that they were built in compliance with the federal code. The code regulates manufactured home design and construction, strength and durability, fire resistance and energy efficiency, and the installation and performance of heating, plumbing, air conditioning, thermal and electrical systems. In newer homes, top grade lumber and dry wall materials are common. Also, manufacturers are required to follow the same fire codes as builders of site-built structures. In 1994, following the devastation left by Hurricane Andrew, HUD introduced regulations that established different wind zones across the country. As a result, any homes set in place since 1994 must be able to withstand wind speeds of 70 miles per hour in Zone 1, 100 miles per hour in Zone 2 and 110 miles per hour in Zone 3. While most of the United States is designated wind Zone 1, areas most likely to be impacted by hurricanes are either Zone 2 or Zone 3.  Although construction of cottages, which are generally smaller homes, do not come under the same HUD regulations, they are built and certified in accordance with National Fire Protection Association ("NFPA") 1192-15 and American National Standards Institute ("ANSI") A119.5 consensus standards for park model recreational vehicles and have many of the same quality features. RVIA operates a safety standards and inspection program that requires member manufacturers of all recreation vehicles, including park model RVs, to certify that each unit built complies with the requirements of the applicable standards.  • Comparability to Site-Built Homes:  Since inception, the manufactured housing industry has experienced a trend toward multi-section homes. The average current manufactured homes are approximately 1,438 square feet. Many such homes have nine-foot or vaulted ceilings, fireplaces and as many as four bedrooms, and closely resemble single-family ranch-style site-built homes at a fraction of the price. At our Properties, there is an active resale or rental market for these larger homes. According to the 2018 U.S. Census American Community Survey, manufactured homes represent 8.5% of single-family housing units. • Second Home and Vacation Home Demographics : According to 2014 National Association of Realtors ("NAR") reports, there were approximately 8.0 million vacation homes in 2013 and a typical vacation homebuyer was 43 years old. In the 2017 NAR reports, sales of second homes in 2016 accounted for 31% of residential transactions, or 1.9 million second-home sales. Additionally, 18% of vacation homebuyers plan to own their home for future retirement. According to 2018 NAR reports, of vacation homebuyers in 2018, 33% purchased in beach areas, 21% purchased on a lake front and 15% purchased in rural areas. Looking ahead, we expect continued strong demand from baby boomers and Generation X. We believe these individuals will continue to drive the market for second-home sales as vacation properties, investment opportunities, or retirement retreats. We believe it is likely that over the next decade we will continue to see high levels  6 of second-home sales and that homes and cottages in our Properties will continue to provide a viable second-home alternative to site-built homes. Notwithstanding our belief that the industry information highlighted above provides us with significant long-term growth opportunities, our short-term growth opportunities could be disrupted by the following: • Shipments:  According to statistics compiled by the U.S. Census Bureau, manufactured home shipments to dealers increased each year from 2010 to 2018, before declining slightly in 2019. Shipments in  2019  decreased  2.1%  to  94,600  units as compared to shipments of  96,600  units in  2018 . According to the RVIA, wholesale shipments of RVs decreased  16.0%  in 2019 to approximately  406,100  units as compared to  2018 . Although RV shipments have been trending downwards, the RV market remains healthy and robust as 2019 was the fourth highest annual shipment year in the industry. ——————————————————————————————————————————— 1. Source: RVIA 2. U.S. Census: Manufactured Homes Survey • Sales:  Retail sales of RVs totaled approximately  411,813  in  2019 , a  6.6%  decrease from  2018  RV sales of  440,994  and a  2.3%  decrease from  2017  RV sales of  421,436 . We believe consumers are concerned about the current economy and the potential for stagnant economic conditions in the near future. However, the enduring appeal of the RV lifestyle has translated into continued strength in RV sales, as 2019 is the third highest sales year for the industry. RV sales could continue to benefit from the increased demand from the baby boomers and Millennials. Financing options are also available as RV dealers typically have relationships with third-party lenders, who provide financing for the purchase of a RV.  • Availability of financing:  Although RV financing is readily available, the economic and legislative environment has generally made it difficult for buyers of both manufactured homes and RVs to obtain financing. Legislation enacted in 2008 and effective in 2010, known as the SAFE Act (Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act) requires community owners interested in providing financing to buyers of manufactured homes to register as mortgage loan originators in states where they engage in such financing. In comparison to financing available to buyers of site-built homes, the few third-party financing sources available to buyers of manufactured homes offer financing with higher down payments, higher rates and shorter maturities, and loan approval is subject to more stringent underwriting criteria. In 2013, we entered into a joint venture, ECHO Financing, LLC, to buy and sell homes and purchase loans made by an unaffiliated lender to residents at our Properties. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and consolidated financial statements and related notes beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K for more detailed information. In 2017, the Federal Housing Finance Agency ("FHFA") published Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's Underserved Markets Plans for 2018-2020 (the "Plans") under the duty-to-serve provisions mandated by the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008. The FHFA  7 mandate requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to serve three specific underserved markets, one of which is the manufactured housing sector. The Plans outline four duty-to-serve focus areas related to manufactured housing, including home purchase financing for customers placing manufactured homes in land lease communities. While this may have positive impact on the ability of our customers to obtain chattel financing, the actual impact on us as well as the industry cannot be determined at this time. In addition, the U.S. Department of the Treasury released the Housing Reform Plan in September 2019, which outlined a plan to end the conservatorships of the government sponsored enterprises. The Housing Reform Plan could have an impact on the Plans.  Available Information We file reports electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy information and statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. We also maintain a website with information about us as well as our press releases, investor presentations, and filings with the SEC at http://www.equitylifestyleproperties.com, which can be accessed free of charge. We intend to post material on our website from time to time that contains material non-public information. The posting of such information is intended to comply with our disclosure requirements under Regulation Fair Disclosure. Accordingly, in addition to following our SEC filings and public conference calls, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in us to review the business and financial information we post on our website. The information contained on our website, or available by hyperlink from our website, is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or other documents we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Requests for copies of our filings with the SEC and other investor inquiries should be directed to: Investor Relations Department Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. Two North Riverside Plaza Chicago, Illinois 60606 Phone: 1-800-247-5279 e-mail: investor_relations@equitylifestyle.com 8 Item 1A. Risk Factors  The following risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These risk factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be material may also affect our actual results. Risks Relating to Our Operations and Real Estate Investments The Economic Performance and Value of Our Properties Are Subject to Risks Associated with The Real Estate Industry . The economic performance and value of our Properties could be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include but are not limited to the following: • changes in the national, regional and/or local economies; • the attractiveness of our Properties to customers, competition from other MH and RV communities and lifestyle-oriented properties and alternative forms of housing (such as apartment buildings and site-built single-family homes); • the ability of MH and RV manufacturers to adapt to changes in the economy and the availability of units from these manufacturers; • the ability of our potential customers to sell or lease their existing residences in order to purchase homes or cottages at our Properties, and heightened price sensitivity for seasonal and second homebuyers; • the ability of our potential customers to obtain financing on the purchase of homes, cottages or RVs; • our ability to attract new customers and retain them for our membership subscriptions and upgrade sales business; • our ability to collect payments from customers and pay or control operating costs, including real estate taxes; • the ability of our assets to generate income sufficient to pay our expenses, service our debt and maintain our Properties; • our ability to diversify and sell our Properties timely due to the illiquid nature of real estate investments; • unfavorable weather conditions, especially on holiday weekends in the spring and summer months, which are our peak business periods;  • changes in climate and the occurrence of natural disasters or catastrophic events, including acts of war and terrorist attacks; • fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to other currencies, primarily the Canadian dollar due to Canadian customers, who frequently visit our southern Properties; • changes in U.S. social, economic and political conditions, laws and governmental regulations, including policies governing rent control, property zoning, taxation, minimum wages, chattel financing, health care, foreign trade, regulatory compliance, manufacturing, development and investment; and • fiscal policies, instability or inaction at the U.S. federal government level, which may lead to federal government shutdowns or negative impacts on the U.S. economy. Changes in or the occurrence of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, market price of our common stock and our ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders or result in claims, including, but not limited to, foreclosure by a lender in the event of our inability to service our debt. Economic Downturn in Markets with a Large Concentration of Our Properties May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Ability to Make Distributions .  Our success is dependent upon economic conditions in the U.S. generally and in the geographic areas where a substantial number of our Properties are located. As we have a large concentration of properties in certain markets, most notably Florida, California and Arizona, which comprise  43.5% ,  13.3%  and  9.5% , respectively, of our total property operating revenue, adverse market and economic conditions in these areas could significantly affect factors, such as occupancy and rental rates, and could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions. In a recession or under other adverse economic conditions, such as during a government shutdown, non-earning assets and write-downs are likely to increase as debtors fail to meet their payment obligations. Although we maintain reserves for credit losses in amounts that we believe are sufficient to provide adequate protection against potential write-downs in our portfolio, these amounts could prove to be insufficient. Certain of Our Properties, Primarily Our RV Communities, are Subject to Seasonality and Cyclicality.  Some of our RV communities are used primarily by vacationers and campers. These Properties experience seasonal demand, which generally increases in the spring and summer months and decreases in the fall and winter months. As such, results for a certain quarter may not be indicative of the results of future quarters. In addition, since our RV communities are primarily used by vacationers and campers, economic cyclicality resulting in a downturn that affects discretionary spending and disposable income for leisure-time activities could adversely affect our cash flows. 9 Our Properties May Not Be Readily Adaptable to Other Uses. Properties in our portfolio, including marinas and certain RV communities, are specific-use properties and may contain features or assets that have limited alternative uses. These Properties may also have distinct operational functions that involve specific procedures and training. If the operations of any of our Properties become unprofitable due to industry competition, operational execution or otherwise, then it may not be feasible to operate the Property for another use, and the value of certain features or assets used at the Property, or the Property itself, may be impaired. Should any of these events occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Competition for Acquisitions May Result in Increased Prices for Properties and Associated Costs and Increased Costs of Financing. Other real estate investors with significant capital may compete with us for attractive investment opportunities. Such competition could increase prices for Properties and result in increased fixed costs, including real estate taxes. To the extent we are unable to effectively compete or acquire properties on favorable terms, our ability to expand our business could be adversely affected.  New Acquisitions May Fail to Perform as Expected and the Intended Benefits May Not Be Realized, Which Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Operations and the Market Price of Our Common Stock. We intend to continue to acquire Properties. However, newly acquired Properties may fail to perform as expected and could pose risks for our ongoing operations including the following: • integration may prove costly or time-consuming and may divert our attention from the management of daily operations; • we may be unable to access capital or we may encounter difficulties, such as increases in financing costs; • we may incur costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities; • unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating an acquisition into our portfolio;  • expected synergies may not materialize; and • we may acquire properties in new markets where we face risks associated with lack of market knowledge such as understanding of the local economy, the local governmental and/or local permit procedures. As a result of the foregoing, we may not accurately estimate or identify all costs necessary to bring an acquired Property up to standards established for our intended market position. As such, we cannot provide assurance that any acquisition we make will be accretive to us in the near term or at all. Furthermore, if we fail to realize the intended benefits of an acquisition, the market price of our common stock could decline to the extent that the market price reflects those benefits. Development and Expansion Properties May Fail to Perform as Expected and the Intended Benefits May Not Be Realized, Which Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Operations and the Market Price of Our Common Stock. We may periodically consider development and expansion activities, which are subject to risks such as construction costs exceeding original estimates and construction and lease-up delays resulting in increased construction costs and lower than expected revenues. Additionally, there can be no assurance that these properties will operate better as a result of development or expansion activities due to various factors, including lower than anticipated occupancy and rental rates causing a property to be unprofitable or less profitable than originally estimated. We Regularly Expend Capital to Maintain, Repair and Renovate Our Properties, Which Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations and Cash Flows. We may, or we may be required to, from time to time make significant capital expenditures to maintain or enhance the competitiveness of our Properties, including the factory-built homes that are located in these Properties. As most of our residents own their homes, the replacement, repairs and refurbishment of these homes may not be within our control. In addition, there is no assurance that any capital expenditure would result in higher occupancy or higher rental rates. The age and quality of the homes in our Properties can impact the desirability of a community and our ability to attract high quality residents and guests. To the extent that the expenditures exceed our available cash, we may need to secure new financing. Our Ability to Renew Ground Leases Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We own the buildings and leasehold improvements at certain Properties that are subject to long-term ground leases. For various reasons, landowners may not want to renew the ground lease agreements with similar terms and conditions, if at all, which could adversely impact our ability to operate these Properties and generate revenues. We have 13 Properties in our portfolio subject to ground lease agreements for land, which we do not own. Four of the 13 Properties, which generated approximately $5.4 million of income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2019, are subject to ground lease agreements with a final expiration date before 2023. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16. Commitment and Contingencies. 10 Our Ability to Sell or Rent Manufactured Homes Could Be Impaired, Resulting in Reduced Cash Flows. Selling and renting homes is a primary part of our business.   Our ability to sell or rent manufactured homes could be adversely affected by any of the following factors: • disruptions in the single-family housing market; • local conditions, such as an oversupply of lifestyle-oriented properties or a reduction in demand for lifestyle-oriented properties; • increased costs to acquire homes; • our ability to obtain an adequate supply of homes at reasonable costs from MH suppliers; • the ability of customers to obtain affordable financing; and • demographics, such as the retirement of "baby boomers", and their demand for access to our lifestyle-oriented Properties. Regulation of Chattel Financing May Affect Our Ability to Sell Homes. Since 2010, the regulatory environment has made it difficult for purchasers of manufactured homes and RVs to obtain financing. The Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act, enacted in 2008 and effective in 2010, requires community owners interested in providing financing for customer purchases of manufactured homes to register as mortgage loan originators in states where they engage in such financing. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act amended the Truth in Lending Act and other consumer protection laws by adding requirements for residential mortgage loans, including limitations on mortgage origination activities, restrictions on high-cost mortgages and new standards for appraisals. The law also requires lenders to make a reasonable investigation into a borrower's ability to repay a loan. These requirements make it more difficult for homeowners to obtain affordable financing and especially for individuals with moderate income to obtain loans to purchase manufactured housing or RVs. Homeowners' ability to obtain affordable financing could affect our ability to sell homes.  Our Investments in Joint Ventures Could Be Adversely Affected by Our Lack of Sole Decision-Making Authority Regarding Major Decisions, Our Reliance on Our Joint Venture Partners' Financial Condition, Any Disputes That May Arise Between Us and Our Joint Venture Partners and Our Exposure to Potential Losses From the Actions of Our Joint Venture Partners. We have joint ventures with other investors. We currently and may continue in the future to acquire properties or make investments in joint ventures with other persons or entities when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. Joint venture investments involve risks not present with respect to our wholly owned Properties, including the following: • o ur joint venture partners may experience financial distress, become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which could delay construction or development of a property or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture; • our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to a property that conflict with our business interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property; and • we may be unable to take actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners under arrangements that require us to share decision-making authority over major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the venture. At times we have entered into agreements providing for joint and several liability with our partners. Frequently, we and our partners may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partners' interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate and recognize attractive returns on our joint venture investments, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and distributions to our stockholders. There is a Risk of Accidents Occurring at Our Properties Which May Negatively Impact Our Operations. While we maintain and promote safety at our Properties, there are inherent risks associated with certain features, assets and activities at our communities. An accident or an injury at any of our communities, particularly an accident or injury involving the safety of residents and guests and employees, may be associated with claims against us involving higher assertions of damages and/or higher public visibility. The occurrence of an accident or an injury at any of our communities could also cause damage to our brand or reputation, lead to loss of consumer confidence in us, reduce occupancy at our communities and negatively impact our results of operations. 11 Our Success Depends, in Part, on Our Ability to Attract and Retain Talented Employees. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees could significantly impact our future performance. Competition for these individuals is intense, and there is no assurance that we will retain our key officers and employees or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals in the future.  Our Business Operations are Dependent On the Effective Operation of Technology. We rely on software and computer systems to process and store information required for our business operations. Any disruption to these systems or to third-party vendors that maintain these systems could adversely affect our business operations. While we maintain and require our vendors to maintain appropriate back-up copies of our information, transitioning to a new system or vendor can be time-consuming and disruptive. Additionally, it is important for us to explore and evolve with new developments in technology to stay competitive. For example, our consumers rely on our technology platforms to make reservations, and therefore, these user interfaces must be understandable and easy to use. It may require investment of both time and expense to implement a new system or upgrade our existing technology. Interruptions to any of the above could lead to lost revenues, interruptions in our business operations and damage to our business reputation. Risks Relating to Governmental Regulation and Potential Litigation Changes to Federal and State Laws and Regulations Could Adversely Affect Our Operations and the Market Price of Our Common Stock. Our business operations are subject to certain federal and state laws and regulations including but not limited to the following: • Rent Control Legislation Certain of our Properties are subject to state and local rent control regulations that dictate rent increases and our ability to recover increases in operating expenses and the costs of capital improvements. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, such regulations allow residents to sell their homes for a price that includes a premium above the intrinsic value of the homes. The premium represents the value of the future discounted rent-controlled rents, which is fully capitalized into the prices of the homes sold. In our view, such regulations result in a transfer to the residents of the value of our land, which would otherwise be reflected in market rents. As part of our effort to realize the value of Properties subject to restrictive regulation, we have initiated lawsuits at various times against various municipalities imposing such regulations in an attempt to balance the interests of our stockholders with the interests of our customers. In addition, we operate certain of our Properties, and may acquire additional properties, in high cost markets where the demand for affordable housing may result in the adoption of new rent control legislation that may impact rent increases. We also own Properties in certain areas of the country where rental rates at our Properties have not increased as fast as real estate values either because of locally imposed rent control or long term leases. In such areas, certain local government entities have at times investigated the possibility of seeking to take our Properties by eminent domain at values below the value of the underlying land. While no such eminent domain proceeding has been commenced, and we anticipate exercising all of our rights in connection with any such proceeding, successful condemnation proceedings by municipalities could adversely affect our financial condition.  Resident groups have previously filed lawsuits against us seeking to limit rent increases and/or seeking large damage awards for our alleged failure to properly maintain certain Properties or other resident related matters. An adverse finding against us in any such proceeding could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and distributions to our stockholders. • Occupational, Safety and Health Act Our Properties are subject to regulation under the federal Occupational, Safety and Health Act ("OSHA"), which requires employers to provide employees with an environment free from hazards, such as exposure to toxic chemicals, excessive noise levels, mechanical dangers, heat or cold stress and unsanitary conditions. Although we believe that our Properties are in compliance in all material respects with applicable requirements, complying with OSHA and similar laws can be costly and any failure to comply with these regulations could result in penalties or potential litigation.  12 •  Americans with Disabilities Act Under the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA"), all public accommodations and commercial facilities must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although we believe that our Properties are in compliance in all material respects with applicable requirements, noncompliance with the ADA or related laws or regulations could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or private litigants being awarded damages against us. Such costs may adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors. Compliance with the ADA requirements could involve removal of structural barriers to access or use by disabled persons. Other federal, state and local laws may require modifications to or restrict further renovations of our Properties with respect to such access or use.  Laws and Regulations Relating to Campground Membership Sales and Properties Could Adversely Affect the Value of Certain Properties and Our Cash Flows. Many of the states in which we operate have laws regulating campground membership sales and properties. These laws generally require comprehensive disclosure to prospective purchasers, and usually give purchasers the right to rescind their purchase between three to five days after the date of sale. Some states have laws requiring us to register with a state agency and obtain a permit to market. We are subject to changes, from time to time, in the application or interpretation of such laws that can affect our business or the rights of our members. In some states, including California, Oregon and Washington, laws place limitations on the ability of the owner of a campground property to close the property unless the customers at the property receive access to a comparable property. The impact of the rights of customers under these laws is uncertain and could adversely affect the availability or timing of sale opportunities or our ability to realize recoveries from Property sales. Certain consumer rights and defenses that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may affect our portfolio of contracts receivable. Examples of such laws include state and federal consumer credit and truth-in-lending laws requiring the disclosure of finance charges, and usury and retail installment sales laws regulating permissible finance charges. Environmental Risks Natural Disasters Could Adversely Affect the Value of Our Properties, Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations and Cash Flows; Climate Change Could Increase the Frequency and Severity of Natural Disasters.  We are subject to risks associated with natural disasters, including but not limited to hurricanes, storms, fires and earthquakes.   As of  December 31, 2019 , we owned or had an ownership interest in  413  Properties, including  133  Properties and  11  marinas located in Florida and  49  Properties located in California.   The occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event in any of these areas may cause a sudden decrease in the value of our Properties and result in an adverse effect to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  To the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity, frequency and magnitude of wildfires and rising sea levels. Over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for our Properties and increased difficulties operating them. Climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy at our Properties and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our Properties against such risks. These losses, costs or business interruptions could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Environmental and Utility-Related Problems are Possible and Can Be Costly. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real property to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or lead or petroleum product releases at such property. The owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Properties containing lead may require removal of the material. This can be costly and, if the lead infiltrates the groundwater or other water supply, further remediation may be necessary. Such laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties could sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of environmental contamination, including asbestos and wastewater discharge. Such laws require that owners or operators of properties containing hazardous or toxic substances to  13 properly manage them. Owners or operators of properties containing asbestos must notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on real property owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. Utility-related laws and regulations also govern the provision of utility services. Such laws regulate, for example, how and to what extent owners or operators of property can charge renters for provision of utilities. Such laws also regulate the operations and performance of utility systems and may impose fines and penalties on real property owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements. The regulations may also require capital investment to maintain compliance. Risks Relating to Debt and the Financial Markets Our Substantial Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Our business is subject to risks normally associated with debt financing. The total principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was approximately  $2,432.4 million  as of  December 31, 2019 , of which approximately  $48.3 million , or  2.1% , matures in 2020 and approximately  $168.9 million , or  7.4% , matures in 2021. Our substantial indebtedness and the cash flows associated with serving our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the risks that: • our cash flows could be insufficient to pay distributions at expected levels and meet required payments of principal and interest; • we might be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to pay our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund the implementation of our business strategy, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness, resulting in higher interest rates that could adversely affect net income, cash flows and our ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders;  • if principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our cash flows may not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt; and • to the extent that any Property is cross-collateralized with any other Properties, any default under the mortgage note relating to one Property could result in a default under the financing arrangements relating to other Properties that also provide security for that mortgage note or are cross-collateralized with such mortgage note. Our Ability to Obtain Mortgage Financing or Refinance Maturing Mortgages May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition . Lenders' demands on borrowers as to the quality of the collateral and related cash flows may make it challenging to secure financing on attractive terms or at all. Future market factors including increases in the U.S. federal reserve funds rate may result in an increase in market interest rates, which could increase the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness or obtaining new debt. Additionally, future disruptions in capital and credit markets, including potential reforms to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, could impact both the capacity and liquidity of lenders, resulting in financing terms that are less attractive to us and/or the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. This could have an adverse effect on our ability to refinance maturing debt and/or react to changing economic and business conditions.   Financial Covenants Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition .  If a Property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness, and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the Property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. The mortgages on our Properties contain customary negative covenants, which among other things limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the Property and to discontinue insurance coverage. In addition, our unsecured credit facilities contain certain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including total debt-to-assets ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. Foreclosure on mortgaged Properties or an inability to refinance existing indebtedness would likely have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Degree of Leverage Could Limit Our Ability to Obtain Additional Financing .  Our debt-to-market-capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total debt plus the market value of the outstanding common stock and OP Units held by parties other than us) was approximately  15.2%  as of  December 31, 2019 . The degree of leverage could have important consequences to stockholders, including an adverse effect on our ability to obtain additional financing  14 in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes, and could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. We May Be Able to Incur Substantially More Debt, Which Would Increase the Risks Associated With Our Substantial Leverage. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, an even greater portion of our cash flow will be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations. As a result, the related risks that we now face could intensify and increase the risk of a default on our indebtedness.   We May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in LIBOR Reporting Practices or the Method in Which LIBOR Is Determined. In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority announced it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee ("ARRC") has proposed that the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") is the rate that represents best practice as the alternative to USD-LIBOR for use in derivatives and other financial contracts that are currently indexed to USD-LIBOR. ARRC has proposed a market transition plan to SOFR from USD-LIBOR and organizations are currently working on industry wide and company specific transition plans as it relates to derivatives and cash markets exposed to USD-LIBOR. Our floating rate borrowings and derivative instruments are indexed to USD-LIBOR and we are monitoring this activity and evaluating the related risks. Although the full impact of such reforms and actions, together with any transition away from LIBOR, including the potential or actual discontinuance of LIBOR publication, remains unclear, these changes could have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing, including LIBOR-based loans, and as a result on our financing costs. Risks Related to Our Company Ownership Provisions of Our Charter and Bylaws Could Inhibit Changes of Control. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change of control or other transactions that could provide our stockholders with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of their common stock or future series of preferred stock, if any, which might otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. These include the Ownership Limit described below. Also, any future series of preferred stock may have certain voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Maryland Law Imposes Certain Limitations on Changes of Control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law ("MGCL") prohibit "business combinations" (including certain issuances of equity securities) with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, or with an affiliate of ours, who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock (an "Interested Stockholder"), or with an affiliate of an Interested Stockholder. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder. After the five-year period, a business combination with an Interested Stockholder must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes unless, among other conditions, our common stockholders receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the Interested Stockholder for shares of our common stock. The Board of Directors has exempted from these provisions under Maryland law any business combination with Samuel Zell, who is Chairman of our Board of Directors, certain holders of OP Units who received them at the time of our initial public offering, and our officers who acquired common stock at the time we were formed and each and every affiliate of theirs. Additionally, Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the MGCL permits our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to elect to be subject to certain provisions relating to corporate governance that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium to the market price of our common stock or otherwise be in our stockholders’ best interests. These provisions include a classified board; two-thirds vote to remove a director; that the number of directors may only be fixed by the Board of Directors; that vacancies on the board as a result of an increase in the size of the board or due to death, resignation or removal can only be filled by the board, and the director appointed to fill the vacancy serves for the remainder of the full term of the class of director in which the vacancy occurred; and a majority requirement for the calling by stockholders of special meetings. Through provisions in our charter and bylaws unrelated to Subtitle 8, we already (a) require a two-thirds vote for the removal of any director from the board and (b) vest in the board the exclusive power to fix the number of directorships provided that, if there is stock outstanding and so long as there are three or more stockholders, the number is not less than three. In the future, our Board of Directors may elect, without stockholder approval, to make us subject to the provisions of Subtitle 8 to which we are not currently subject. 15 Our Board of Directors has power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of our bylaws or make new bylaws, provided, however, that our stockholders may, with certain exceptions, alter or repeal any provision of our bylaws and adopt new bylaws if any such alteration, repeal or adoption is approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Changes in Our Investment and Financing Policies May Be Made Without Stockholder Approval. Our investment and financing policies, and our policies with respect to certain other activities, including our growth, debt, capitalization, distributions, REIT status, and operating policies, are determined by our Board of Directors. Although our Board of Directors has no present intention to do so, these policies may be amended or revised from time to time at the discretion of our Board of Directors without notice to or a vote of our stockholders. Accordingly, stockholders may not have control over changes in our policies and changes in our policies may not fully serve the interests of all stockholders. Conflicts of Interest Could Influence Our Decisions . Certain stockholders could exercise influence in a manner inconsistent with stockholders' best interests. Mr. Zell and certain related entities, directly or indirectly, beneficially own shares of our common stock and OP Units as disclosed in our Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A for the 2020 Annual Meeting incorporated by reference herein. Mr. Zell is the chairman of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, Mr. Zell has significant influence on our management and operation. Such influence could be exercised in a manner that is inconsistent with the interests of other stockholders. In addition, Mr. Zell and related entities continue to be involved in other investment activities. Mr. Zell and related entities have a broad and varied range of investment interests, including interests in other real estate investment companies that own other forms of housing, including multifamily housing. Mr. Zell and related entities may acquire interests in other companies. Mr. Zell may not be able to control whether any such company competes with us.  Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We Depend on Our Subsidiaries' Dividends and Distributions. Substantially all of our assets are owned indirectly by the Operating Partnership. As a result, we have no source of cash flows other than distributions from our Operating Partnership. For us to pay dividends to holders of our common stock, the Operating Partnership must first distribute cash to us. Before it can distribute the cash, our Operating Partnership must first satisfy its obligations to its creditors. Market Interest Rates May Have an Effect on the Value of Our Common Stock.   One of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a REIT is the distribution rates with respect to such shares (as a percentage of the price of such shares) relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more of our funds to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our publicly traded securities to go down. Issuances or Sales of Our Common Stock May Be Dilutive. The issuance or sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could have a dilutive effect on our actual and expected earnings per share, FFO per share and Normalized Funds from Operations ("Normalized FFO") per share. We may sell shares of our common stock under our at-the-market ("ATM") equity offering program from time-to-time. During the year ended  December 31, 2019 , we sold  1,010,472  shares through our ATM equity offering program to finance acquisitions during the year. As of  December 31, 2019 , there was  $140.7 million  available for issuance under our ATM equity program. The actual amount of dilution cannot be determined at this time and would be dependent upon numerous factors which are not currently known to us.  Our Share Price Could Be Volatile and Could Decline, Resulting in A Substantial or Complete Loss on Our Stockholders’ Investment. We list our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE"), and our common stock could experience significant price and volume fluctuations. Investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • issuances of other equity securities in the future, including new series or classes of preferred stock; • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • our ability to maintain compliance with covenants contained in our debt facilities; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, funds from operations, cash flows or liquidity; 16 • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in our earnings estimates or those of analysts; • changes in our distribution policy; • publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry generally; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher dividend yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to the amount of our debt outstanding at any time, the amount of our debt maturing in the near-term and medium-term and our ability to refinance our debt, or our plans to incur additional debt in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • speculation in the press or investment community; • equity issuances by us, or share resales by our stockholders or the perception that such issuances or resales may occur; • actions by institutional stockholders; and • general market and economic conditions. Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. Those factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. It is impossible to provide any assurance that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future, and it may be difficult for holders to resell shares of our common stock at prices they find attractive, or at all. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Risks Relating to REITs and Income Taxes We are Dependent on External Sources of Capital. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain). In addition, we intend to distribute all or substantially all of our net income so that we will generally not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our earnings. Because of these distribution requirements, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. We therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of debt and equity capital financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including conditions in the capital markets generally and the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. It may be difficult for us to meet one or more of the requirements for qualification as a REIT, including but not limited to our distribution requirement. Moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. We Have a Stock Ownership Limit for REIT Tax Purposes. To remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs) at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To facilitate maintenance of our REIT qualification, our charter, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits Beneficial Ownership (as defined in our charter) by any single stockholder of more than 5% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding capital stock. We refer to this as the "Ownership Limit." Within certain limits, our charter permits the Board of Directors to increase the Ownership Limit with respect to any class or series of stock. The Board of Directors, upon receipt of a ruling from the IRS, opinion of counsel, or other evidence satisfactory to the Board of Directors and upon 15 days prior written notice of a proposed transfer which, if consummated, would result in the transferee owning shares in excess of the Ownership Limit, and upon such other conditions as the Board of Directors may direct, may exempt a stockholder from the Ownership Limit. Absent any such exemption, capital stock acquired or held in violation of the Ownership Limit will be transferred by operation of law to us as trustee for the benefit of the person to whom such capital stock is ultimately transferred, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. Such stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the capital stock we transferred as trustee, the lesser of (i) the price paid for the capital stock or, if the owner did not pay for the capital stock (for example, in the case of a gift, devise or other such transaction), the market price of the capital stock on the date of the event causing the capital stock to be transferred to us as trustee or (ii) the amount realized from such sale. A transfer of capital stock may be void if it causes a person to violate the Ownership Limit. The Ownership Limit could delay or prevent a change in control of us and, therefore, could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their common stock or adversely affect the best interest of our stockholders. 17 Our Qualification as a REIT Is Dependent on Compliance with U.S. Federal Income Tax Requirements . We believe we have been organized and operated in a manner so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT, and we intend to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our current and continuing qualification as a REIT depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Code, which relate to organizational structure, distribution levels, diversity of stock ownership and certain restrictions with regard to owned assets and categories of income. If we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we are generally not subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income that is distributed to our stockholders. However, qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. In connection with certain transactions, we have received, and relied upon, advice of counsel as to the impact of such transactions on our qualification as a REIT. Our qualification as a REIT requires analysis of various facts and circumstances that may not be entirely within our control, and we cannot provide any assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") will agree with our analysis or the analysis of our tax counsel. In particular, the proper U.S. federal income tax treatment of right-to-use membership contracts and rental income from certain short-term stays at RV communities is uncertain and there is no assurance that the IRS will agree with our treatment of such contracts or rental income. If the IRS were to disagree with our analysis or our tax counsel's analysis of various facts and circumstances, our ability to qualify as a REIT could be adversely affected. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions might significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT.  If, with respect to any taxable year, we failed to maintain our qualification as a REIT (and if specified relief provisions under the Code were not applicable to such disqualification), we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. If we lost our REIT status, we could not deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our net taxable income at regular corporate rates and we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our net taxable incomes. If we had to pay U.S. federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to stockholders and pay indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to distribute money to stockholders. Although we currently intend to operate in a manner designed to allow us to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to revoke the REIT election. Furthermore, we own a direct interest in a subsidiary REIT, and in the past we have owned interests in other subsidiary REITs, each of which elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code. Provided that each subsidiary REIT that we own qualifies as a REIT, our interest in such subsidiary REIT will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary REIT will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. To qualify as a REIT, the subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to U.S. federal income tax. In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a REIT could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT. We May Pay Some Taxes, Reducing Cash Available for Stockholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some U.S. federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. Since January 1, 2001, certain of our corporate subsidiaries have elected to be treated as "taxable REIT subsidiaries" for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. If tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable REIT subsidiaries to us are greater than what would be paid under similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments. To the extent we are required to pay U.S. federal, foreign, state or local taxes or U.S. federal penalty taxes due to existing laws or changes to them, we will have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Recent Changes to U.S. Tax Laws and Related Interpretations Could Adversely Impact Us. On December 22, 2017, H.R. 1, commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). As a result of the changes to U.S. federal tax laws implemented by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, our taxable income and the amount of distributions to our stockholders required in order to maintain our REIT status, and our relative tax advantage as a REIT, may change. The long-term impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on the overall economy, government revenues, our tenants, us, and the real estate industry cannot be reliably predicted at this stage of the law’s implementation. There can be no assurance that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business operations.   18 For additional discussion of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, see "Recent U.S. Federal Income Tax Legislation."  You are urged to consult with your tax advisor with respect to the status of legislative, regulatory, or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our shares. Other Risk Factors Affecting Our Business Some Potential Losses Are Not Covered by Insurance. We carry comprehensive insurance coverage for losses resulting from property damage and environmental liability and business interruption claims on all of our Properties. In addition, we carry liability coverage for other activities not specifically related to property operations. These coverages include, but are not limited to, Directors & Officers liability, Employer Practices liability, Fiduciary liability and Cyber liability. We believe that the policy specifications and coverage limits of these policies should be adequate and appropriate. There are, however, certain types of losses, such as punitive damages, lease and other contract claims that generally are not insured. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of coverage limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a Property or the anticipated future revenue from a Property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the Property. Our current property and casualty insurance policies with respect to our MH and RV Properties, which we plan to renew, expire on April 1, 2020. We have a $100 million loss limit per occurrence with respect to our MH and RV all-risk property insurance program including named windstorms, which include, for example, hurricanes. This loss limit is subject to additional sub-limits as set forth in the policy form, including, among others, a $25 million aggregate loss limit for earthquake(s) in California. The deductibles for this policy primarily range from a $500,000 minimum to 5% per unit of insurance for most catastrophic events. For most catastrophic events, there is an additional one-time $500,000 aggregate deductible. We have separate insurance policies with respect to the 11 Florida marinas as to which we acquired the remaining interest on September 10, 2019. Those policies, which we plan to renew, expire on November 1, 2020, and the property insurance program has a minimum deductible of $100,000. A deductible indicates our maximum exposure, subject to policy limits and sub-limits, in the event of a loss. We Face Risks Relating to Cybersecurity Incidents. We rely extensively on internally and externally hosted computer systems to process transactions and manage our business. Critical components of our systems are dependent upon third-party providers and a significant portion of our business operations are conducted over the internet. These systems and websites are subject to system security risks, cybersecurity breaches, outages and other risks. These could include attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and computer systems, or steal confidential information, including credit card information from our customers, breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, including disruptions that result in our and our customers' loss of access to our information systems. Attacks can be both individual or highly organized attempts by very sophisticated hacking organizations. We employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats. While we continue to improve our cybersecurity and take measures to protect our business, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cybersecurity incident and that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident. A cybersecurity incident could compromise the confidential information of our employees, customers and vendors to the extent such information exists on our systems or on the systems of third-party providers. Such an incident could result in potential liability, damage our reputation and disrupt and affect our business operations and result in lawsuits against us. Social Media Platforms Could Cause Us to Suffer Brand Damage or Information Leakage. Negative information about us, or our officers, employees, directors or Properties, even if untrue, could damage our reputation. In particular, information shared on social media platforms could cause us to suffer brand damage because social media platforms have increased the rapidity of the dissemination and greatly expanded the potential scope and scale of the impact of negative publicity. While employees are held to internal policies related to posting on public platforms including social media sites, employees or others might disclose non-public sensitive information relating to our business through external media channels. The continuing evolution of social media will present us with new challenges and risks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 Item 2. Properties General Our Properties provide common area facilities and attractive amenities that create an inviting community for our residents and guests. These common area facilities generally include a clubhouse, a swimming pool, laundry facilities, cable television and internet service. Many Properties also offer additional amenities such as golf courses, tennis, pickleball, shuffleboard and basketball courts, sauna/whirlpool spas, exercise rooms and various social activities. It is our responsibility to provide maintenance of the common area facilities and amenities and to ensure that our residents and guests comply with our community policies, including maintaining their homes and the surrounding area. Most of our residents own their homes, and therefore, also have a vested interest to care for their homes. We hold regular meetings with management personnel at our Properties to understand and address the needs of our residents and guests and to provide necessary trainings. Our Properties historically have had, and we believe they will continue to have, low turnover and high occupancy rates. Property Portfolio As of  December 31, 2019 , we owned or had an ownership interest in a portfolio of  413  Properties located throughout the United States and British Columbia containing  156,513  Sites. A total of  116  of the Properties were encumbered by debt (see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9. Borrowing Arrangements). The distribution of our Properties throughout the United States reflects our belief that geographic diversification helps to insulate the total portfolio from regional economic influences. We intend to target new acquisitions in or near markets where our Properties are located and will also consider acquisitions of properties outside such markets.  Our two largest Properties as determined by property operating revenues, excluding deferrals, were Colony Cove, located in Ellenton, Florida, and Viewpoint Resort, located in Mesa, Arizona. Each accounted for approximately 2.0% of our total property operating revenues, excluding deferrals, for the year ended  December 31, 2019 . The following table sets forth certain information relating to our  407  wholly-owned Properties containing  152,914  Sites as of  December 31, 2019 , not including Properties owned through joint ventures. These Properties are categorized by major market. For RV and marina Properties, the total number of annual Sites represents Sites occupied by annual residents and are presented as 100% occupied. Annual Site occupancy percentage subtotals by market and grand total are presented on a weighted average basis. Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19   Florida                                   East Coast:                                   Cheron Village   Davie   FL   MH   30       202   202   100.0%   Carriage Cove   Daytona Beach   FL   MH   59       418   418   91.4%   Coquina Crossing   Elkton   FL   MH   316   26   596   596   94.3%   Bulow Plantation   Flagler Beach   FL   MH   323   90   276   276   100.0%   Bulow RV   Flagler Beach   FL   RV   (f)   91   352   122   100.0%   Carefree Cove   Fort Lauderdale   FL   MH   20       164   164   93.3%   Everglades Lakes   Fort Lauderdale   FL   MH   103       612   612   96.6%   Park City West   Fort Lauderdale   FL   MH   60       363   363   97.5%   Sunshine Holiday MH   Fort Lauderdale   FL   MH   32       245   245   97.6%   Sunshine Holiday RV   Fort Lauderdale   FL   RV   (f)       130   50   100.0%   Lake Worth Village   Lake Worth   FL   MH   117       823   823   93.4%   Maralago Cay   Lantana   FL   MH   102       602   602   98.7%   Coral Cay Plantation   Margate   FL   MH   121       818   818   99.0%   20 Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19   Lakewood Village   Melbourne   FL   MH   68       349   349   88.0%   Miami Everglades   Miami   FL   RV   34   2   303   74   100.0%   Loggerhead Marinas (11 properties) (c) (e)   Multiple   FL   Marina   87       2,343   1,643   100.0%   Holiday Village   Ormond Beach   FL   MH   43       301   301   89.0%   Sunshine Holiday   Ormond Beach   FL   RV   69   3   349   132   100.0%   The Meadows, FL   Palm Beach Gardens   FL   MH   55       378   378   97.6%   Breezy Hill RV   Pompano Beach   FL   RV   52       762   387   100.0%   Highland Wood RV   Pompano Beach   FL   RV   15       148   19   100.0%   Lighthouse Pointe    Port Orange   FL   MH   64       433   433   84.1%   Pickwick   Port Orange   FL   MH   84   2   432   432   100.0%   Rose Bay   Port Orange   FL   RV   21   2   303   209   100.0%   Palm Lake   Riviera Beach   FL   MH   154   —   915   915   69.0%   Indian Oaks   Rockledge   FL   MH   38       208   208   99.5%   Space Coast   Rockledge   FL   RV   24       270   156   100.0%   Countryside   Vero Beach   FL   MH   125       644   644   95.7%   Heritage Plantation   Vero Beach   FL   MH   64       437   437   87.9%   Heron Cay   Vero Beach   FL   MH   130       588   588   90.8%   Holiday Village, FL   Vero Beach   FL   MH   18   18   128   128   —%   Sunshine Travel   Vero Beach   FL   RV   30   6   300   130   100.0%   Vero Palm   Vero Beach   FL   MH   64       285   285   88.8%   Village Green   Vero Beach   FL   MH   174   8   782   782   89.9%   Palm Beach Colony   West Palm Beach   FL   MH   48       284   284   100.0%                                       Central:                                   Clover Leaf Farms   Brooksville   FL   MH   227   27   778   778   99.7%   Clover Leaf Forest   Brooksville   FL   RV   30       277   150   100.0%   Clerbrook Golf & RV Resort   Clermont   FL   RV   288       1,255   486   100.0%   Lake Magic   Clermont   FL   RV   69       471   156   100.0%   Orange Lake   Clermont   FL   MH   38       242   242   99.2%   Orlando   Clermont   FL   RV   270   30   850   178   100.0%   Haselton Village   Eustis   FL   MH   52       291   291   100.0%   Southern Palms   Eustis   FL   RV   120       950   354   100.0%   Lakeside Terrace   Fruitland Park   FL   MH   39       241   241   99.2%   Grand Island   Grand Island   FL   MH   35       362   362   76.8%   Sherwood Forest   Kissimmee   FL   MH   124       769   769   98.4%   Sherwood Forest RV Park   Kissimmee   FL   RV   107       513   153   100.0%   Tropical Palms   Kissimmee   FL   RV   59       566   246   100.0%   Beacon Hill Colony   Lakeland   FL   MH   31       201   201   99.0%   Beacon Terrace   Lakeland   FL   MH   55       297   297   100.0%   Kings & Queens   Lakeland   FL   MH   18       107   107   99.1%   21 Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19   Lakeland Harbor   Lakeland   FL   MH   65       504   504   99.6%   Lakeland Junction   Lakeland   FL   MH   23       193   193   100.0%   Coachwood Colony   Leesburg   FL   MH   29       201   201   94.5%   Mid-Florida Lakes   Leesburg    FL   MH   290       1,225   1,225   89.5%   Southernaire   Mt. Dora   FL   MH   14       114   114   90.4%   Foxwood Farms   Ocala   FL   MH   56       365   365   88.5%   Oak Bend   Ocala   FL   MH   62   17   262   262   93.1%   Villas at Spanish Oaks   Ocala   FL   MH   69       454   454   87.9%   Audubon   Orlando   FL   MH   40   2   280   280   100.0%   Hidden Valley   Orlando   FL   MH   50       303   303   99.7%   Starlight Ranch   Orlando   FL   MH   130       783   783   93.7%   Covington Estates   Saint Cloud   FL   MH   59       241   241   98.3%   Parkwood Communities   Wildwood   FL   MH   121       694   694   98.7%   Three Flags RV Resort   Wildwood   FL   RV   23       221   54   100.0%   Winter Garden   Winter Garden   FL   RV   27       350   161   100.0%                                       Gulf Coast (Tampa/Naples):                                   Riverside RV   Arcadia   FL   RV   196   8   499   162   100.0%   Toby's RV   Arcadia   FL   RV   44       379   268   100.0%   Sunshine Key RV Resort   Big Pine Key   FL   RV   54       409   55   100.0%   Windmill Manor   Bradenton   FL   MH   49       292   292   99.3%   Winter Quarters Manatee   Bradenton   FL   RV   42       415   232   100.0%   Glen Ellen   Clearwater   FL   MH   12       106   106   90.6%   Hillcrest   Clearwater   FL   MH   25       278   278   96.4%   Holiday Ranch   Clearwater   FL   MH   12       150   150   94.7%   Serendipity   Clearwater   FL   MH   55       426   426   97.4%   Shady Lane Oaks   Clearwater   FL   MH   31       249   249   97.6%   Shady Lane Village   Clearwater   FL   MH   19       156   156   96.2%   Silk Oak   Clearwater   FL   MH   19       181   181   95.6%   Crystal Isles   Crystal River   FL   RV   38       260   72   100.0%   Lake Haven   Dunedin   FL   MH   48       379   379   98.9%   Colony Cove   Ellenton   FL   MH   538   60   2,206   2,206   98.5%   The Oaks at Colony Cove (d)   Ellenton   FL   MH   (f)       93   93   1.1%   Ridgewood Estates   Ellenton   FL   MH   77       380   380   100.0%   Fort Myers Beach Resort   Fort Myers   FL   RV   31       306   125   100.0%   Gulf Air Travel   Fort Myers Beach   FL   RV   25       246   164   100.0%   Holiday Travel Park   Holiday   FL   RV   45       613   530   100.0%   Barrington Hills   Hudson   FL   RV   28       392   255   100.0%   Down Yonder   Largo   FL   MH   50       361   361   100.0%   East Bay Oaks   Largo   FL   MH   40       328   328   98.8%   Eldorado Village   Largo   FL   MH   25       227   227   98.7%   Paradise Park - Largo   Largo   FL   MH   15       108   108   100.0%   22 Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19   Shangri La   Largo   FL   MH   14       160   160   93.1%   Vacation Village   Largo   FL   RV   29       293   161   100.0%   Whispering Pines - Largo   Largo   FL   MH   55       393   393   96.2%   Fiesta Key   Long Key   FL   RV   28   4   324   6   100.0%   Pasco   Lutz   FL   RV   27       255   204   100.0%   Country Place   New Port Richey   FL   MH   82       515   515   100.0%   Hacienda Village   New Port Richey   FL   MH   66       505   505   99.6%   Harbor View   New Port Richey   FL   MH   69       471   471   99.8%   Bay Lake Estates   Nokomis   FL   MH   34       228   228   99.6%   Lake Village   Nokomis   FL   MH   65       391   391   99.2%   Royal Coachman   Nokomis   FL   RV   111   2   546   458   100.0%   Buccaneer   North Fort Myers   FL   MH   223   39   971   971   99.3%   Island Vista   North Fort Myers   FL   MH   121       616   616   80.4%   Lake Fairways   North Fort Myers   FL   MH   259       896   896   99.9%   Pine Lakes   North Fort Myers   FL   MH   314       599   599   98.3%   Pioneer Village   North Fort Myers   FL   RV   90       733   383   100.0%   Sunseekers RV Resort   North Fort Myers   FL   RV   16       241   156   100.0%   The Heritage   North Fort Myers   FL   MH   214   6   453   453   98.9%   Windmill Village   North Fort Myers   FL   MH   69       491   491   94.7%   Silver Dollar Resort   Odessa   FL   RV   412       459   381   100.0%   Terra Ceia   Palmetto   FL   RV   18       203   152   100.0%   The Arbors at Countrywood (g)   Plant City   FL   MH   (f)       62   62   —%   The Lakes at Countrywood   Plant City   FL   MH   122       424   424   96.7%   The Meadows at Countrywood   Plant City   FL   MH   140   10   737   737   104.2%   The Oaks at Countrywood   Plant City   FL   MH   44       168   168   94.0%   Harbor Lakes   Port Charlotte   FL   RV   80       528   354   100.0%   Emerald Lake   Punta Gorda   FL   MH   28       201   201   100.0%   Gulf View   Punta Gorda   FL   RV   78       206   85   100.0%   Tropical Palms   Punta Gorda   FL   MH   50   2   294   294   95.6%   Kingswood   Riverview   FL   MH   52       229   229   99.1%   Winds of St Armands North   Sarasota   FL   MH   74       471   471   99.6%   Winds of St Armands South   Sarasota   FL   MH   61   13   306   306   99.7%   Topics RV   Spring Hill   FL   RV   35       230   179   100.0%   Pine Island RV Resort   St. James City    FL   RV   31       363   88   100.0%   Carefree Village   Tampa   FL   MH   58       397   397   98.0%   Tarpon Glen   Tarpon Springs   FL   MH   24       168   168   97.6%   Featherock   Valrico   FL   MH   84       521   521   100.0%   Bay Indies   Venice   FL   MH   210       1,309   1,309   99.4%   Ramblers Rest   Venice   FL   RV   117       647   386   100.0%   23 Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19   Peace River   Wauchula   FL   RV   72       454   41   100.0%   Crystal Lake-Zephyrhills   Zephyrhills   FL   MH   147   38   366   366   88.8%   Forest Lake Estates   Zephyrhills   FL   MH   164   89   892   892   100.0%   Forest Lake Village   Zephyrhills   FL   RV   42       274   179   100.0%   Sixth Avenue   Zephyrhills   FL   MH   14       140   140   77.1%   Other   Multiple   FL   MH   7   —   65   65   13.8%   Total Florida Market               10,932   595   59,537   49,485   95.8%                                       California                                   Northern California:                                   Monte del Lago   Castroville   CA   MH   54       310   310   99.0%   Colony Park   Ceres   CA   MH   20       186   186   97.8%   Russian River   Cloverdale   CA   RV   41       135   9   100.0%   Snowflower (g)   Emigrant Gap   CA   RV   612       268   —   —%   Four Seasons   Fresno   CA   MH   40       242   242   100.0%   Yosemite Lakes (g)   Groveland   CA   RV   403   30   299   —   —%   Tahoe Valley (e) (g)   Lake Tahoe   CA   RV   86       413   —   —%   Sea Oaks   Los Osos   CA   MH   18   1   125   125   99.2%   Ponderosa   Lotus   CA   RV   22       170   14   100.0%   Turtle Beach   Manteca   CA   RV   39       79   21   100.0%   Coralwood (e)   Modesto   CA   MH   22       194   194   99.0%   Lake Minden   Nicolaus   CA   RV   165   82   323   9   100.0%   Lake of the Springs   Oregon House   CA   RV   954   507   541   66   100.0%   Concord Cascade   Pacheco   CA   MH   31       283   283   100.0%   San Francisco RV (g)   Pacifica   CA   RV   12       122   —   —%   Quail Meadows   Riverbank   CA   MH   20       146   146   98.6%   California Hawaiian   San Jose   CA   MH   50       418   418   100.0%   Sunshadow   San Jose   CA   MH   30       121   121   100.0%   Village of the Four Seasons   San Jose   CA   MH   30       271   271   100.0%   Westwinds (4 Properties) (e)   San Jose   CA   MH   88       723   723   100.0%   Laguna Lake   San Luis Obispo   CA   MH   100       300   300   100.0%   Contempo Marin   San Rafael   CA   MH   63   1   396   396   100.0%   De Anza Santa Cruz   Santa Cruz   CA   MH   30       198   198   99.5%   Santa Cruz Ranch RV Resort (g)   Scotts Valley   CA   RV   7       106   —   —%   Royal Oaks   Visalia   CA   MH   20       149   149   94.0%                                                                           Southern California:                                   Soledad Canyon   Acton   CA   RV   273       1,251   11   100.0%   24 Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19   Los Ranchos   Apple Valley   CA   MH   30       389   389   98.5%   Date Palm Country Club (e)   Cathedral City   CA   MH   232   3   538   538   98.5%   Date Palm RV   Cathedral City   CA   RV   (f)       140   27   100.0%   Oakzanita Springs   Descanso   CA   RV   145   5   146   17   100.0%   Rancho Mesa   El Cajon   CA   MH   20       158   158   98.7%   Rancho Valley   El Cajon   CA   MH   19       140   140   100.0%   Royal Holiday   Hemet   CA   MH   22       198   198   66.2%   Idyllwild   Idyllwild-Pine Cove   CA   RV   191       287   51   100.0%   Pio Pico   Jamul   CA   RV   176   10   512   91   100.0%   Wilderness Lakes   Menifee   CA   RV   73       529   47   100.0%   Morgan Hill (g)   Morgan Hill   CA   RV   62   5   339   —   —%   Pacific Dunes Ranch (g)   Oceana   CA   RV   48       215   —   —%   San Benito   Paicines   CA   RV   199   23   523   44   100.0%   Palm Springs   Palm Desert   CA   RV   35       401   18   100.0%   Las Palmas   Rialto   CA   MH   18       136   136   100.0%   Parque La Quinta   Rialto   CA   MH   19       166   166   100.0%   Rancho Oso   Santa Barbara   CA   RV   310   40   187   19   100.0%   Meadowbrook   Santee   CA   MH   43       338   338   99.7%   Lamplighter   Spring Valley   CA   MH   32       270   270   100.0%   Santiago Estates   Sylmar   CA   MH   113   9   300   300   96.3%   Total California Market               5,017   716   13,681   7,139   98.4%                                       Arizona:                                   Apache East   Apache Junction   AZ   MH   17       123   123   100.0%   Countryside RV   Apache Junction   AZ   RV   53       560   303   100.0%   Denali Park   Apache Junction   AZ   MH   33   5   162   162   98.8%   Golden Sun RV   Apache Junction   AZ   RV   33       329   198   100.0%   Valley Vista   Benson   AZ   RV   6       145   3   100.0%   Casita Verde RV Resort   Casa Grande   AZ   RV   14       192   92   100.0%   Fiesta Grande RV Resort   Casa Grande   AZ   RV   77       767   529   100.0%   Foothills West RV Resort   Casa Grande   AZ   RV   16       188   126   100.0%   Sunshine Valley   Chandler   AZ   MH   55       381   381   99.0%   Verde Valley   Cottonwood   AZ   RV   273   178   414   115   100.0%   Casa del Sol East II   Glendale   AZ   MH   29       239   239   96.7%   Casa del Sol East III   Glendale   AZ   MH   28       236   236   97.5%   Palm Shadows   Glendale   AZ   MH   33       293   293   92.2%   Hacienda De Valencia   Mesa   AZ   MH   51       364   364   99.2%   Mesa Spirit   Mesa   AZ   RV   90       1,600   765   100.0%   Monte Vista   Mesa   AZ   RV   142   18   1,185   793   100.0%   25 Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19   Seyenna Vistas   Mesa   AZ   MH   60   4   407   407   97.8%   The Highlands at Brentwood   Mesa   AZ   MH   45       268   268   99.3%   Viewpoint   Mesa   AZ   RV   332       2,414   1,814   100.0%   Apollo Village   Peoria   AZ   MH   29   3   238   238   96.2%   Casa del Sol West I   Peoria   AZ   MH   31       245   245   98.0%   Carefree Manor   Phoenix   AZ   MH   16       130   130   96.9%   Central Park   Phoenix   AZ   MH   37       293   293   95.6%   Desert Skies   Phoenix   AZ   MH   24       166   166   98.2%   Sunrise Heights   Phoenix   AZ   MH   28       199   199   97.0%   Whispering Palms   Phoenix   AZ   MH   15       116   116   94.8%   Desert Vista (g)   Salome   AZ   RV   10       125   —   —%   Sedona Shadows   Sedona   AZ   MH   48   2   198   198   99.0%   Venture In RV Resort   Show Low   AZ   RV   26       389   270   100.0%   Paradise   Sun City   AZ   RV   80       950   750   100.0%   The Meadows   Tempe   AZ   MH   60       390   390   99.2%   Fairview Manor   Tucson   AZ   MH   28       235   235   97.4%   Westpark   Wickenburg   AZ   MH   48   7   231   231   96.5%   Araby   Yuma   AZ   RV   25   3   337   277   100.0%   Cactus Gardens   Yuma   AZ   RV   43       430   239   100.0%   Capri RV Park   Yuma   AZ   RV   20       303   181   100.0%   Desert Paradise   Yuma   AZ   RV   26       260   103   100.0%   Foothill   Yuma   AZ   RV   18       180   48   100.0%   Mesa Verde   Yuma   AZ   RV   28       345   271   100.0%   Suni Sands   Yuma   AZ   RV   34       336   161   100.0%   Total Arizona Market               2,061   220   16,363   11,952   99.0%                                       Colorado:                                   Hillcrest Village   Aurora   CO   MH   72       602   602   99.7%   Cimarron Village   Broomfield   CO   MH   50       327   327   100.0%   Holiday Village CO   Colorado Springs   CO   MH   38       240   240   98.3%   Bear Creek   Denver   CO   MH   12       121   121   95.9%   Holiday Hills   Denver   CO   MH   99       736   736   98.4%   Golden Terrace   Golden   CO   MH   32       263   263   100.0%   Golden Terrace South   Golden   CO   MH   15       80   80   100.0%   Golden Terrace South RV (g)   Golden   CO   RV   (f)       80   —   —%   Golden Terrace West   Golden   CO   MH   39       311   311   100.0%   Pueblo Grande   Pueblo   CO   MH   33       251   251   75.3%   Woodland Hills   Thornton   CO   MH   55       434   434   100.0%   Total Colorado Market               445   —   3,445   3,365   97.5%   26 Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19                                       Northeast:                                   Stonegate Manor   North Windham   CT   MH   114       372   372   93.5%   Waterford Estates   Bear   DE   MH   159   2   731   731   99.5%   McNicol   Lewes   DE   MH   25       93   93   100.0%   Whispering Pines   Lewes   DE   MH   67   2   393   393   98.5%   Mariners Cove   Millsboro   DE   MH   101       374   374   96.3%   Sweetbriar   Millsboro   DE   MH   38       146   146   93.2%   Aspen Meadows   Rehoboth Beach   DE   MH   46       200   200   100.0%   Camelot Meadows   Rehoboth Beach   DE   MH   61       301   301   100.0%   Gateway to Cape Cod   Rochester   MA   RV   80   25   194   67   100.0%   Hillcrest-MA   Rockland   MA   MH   19       79   79   94.9%   The Glen   Rockland   MA   MH   24       36   36   100.0%   Old Chatham Road RV   South Dennis   MA   RV   47       312   249   100.0%   Sturbridge   Sturbridge   MA   RV   223   125   155   82   100.0%   Fernwood   Capitol Heights   MD   MH   40   6   329   329   98.2%   Williams Estates and Peppermint Woods   Middle River   MD   MH   121       803   803   100.0%   Mount Desert Narrows   Bar Harbor   ME   RV   90   12   206   9   100.0%   Patten Pond   Ellsworth   ME   RV   43   60   137   13   100.0%   Pinehirst RV Resort   Old Orchard Beach   ME   RV   58       550   467   100.0%   Narrows Too   Trenton   ME   RV   42   8   207   9   100.0%   Moody Beach   Wells   ME   RV   48   10   203   91   100.0%   Sandy Beach RV Resort   Contoocook   NH   RV   40       190   95   100.0%   Pine Acres   Raymond   NH   RV   100       421   264   100.0%   Tuxbury Resort   South Hampton   NH   RV   193   100   305   232   100.0%   King Nummy   Cape May Court House   NJ   RV   83       313   258   100.0%   Mays Landing   Mays Landing   NJ   RV   18       168   69   100.0%   Echo Farms   Ocean View   NJ   RV   31       237   205   100.0%   Lake & Shore   Ocean View   NJ   RV   162       401   275   100.0%   Chestnut Lake   Port Republic   NJ   RV   32       185   53   100.0%   Sea Pines   Swainton   NJ   RV   75   32   549   310   100.0%   Pine Ridge at Crestwood   Whiting   NJ   MH   188       1,035   1,035   88.2%   Rondout Valley Resort   Accord   NY   RV   184   94   398   87   100.0%   Alpine Lake RV Resort   Corinth   NY   RV   200   54   500   324   100.0%   Lake George Escape   Lake George   NY   RV   178       576   68   100.0%   The Woodlands   Lockport   NY   MH   225   76   1,226   1,226   92.1%   Greenwood Village   Manorville   NY   MH   79       512   512   98.0%   Brennan Beach   Pulaski   NY   RV   201       1,377   1,194   100.0%   Lake George Schroon Valley   Warrensburg   NY   RV   151       151   87   100.0%   27 Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19   Greenbriar Village   Bath   PA   MH   63       319   319   97.8%   Sun Valley   Bowmansville   PA   RV   86   3   265   165   100.0%   Green Acres   Breinigsville   PA   MH   149       595   595   92.8%   Gettysburg Farm   Dover   PA   RV   124   62   265   81   100.0%   Timothy Lake North   East Stroudsburg   PA   RV   93       323   82   100.0%   Timothy Lake South   East Stroudsburg   PA   RV   65       327   138   100.0%   Drummer Boy (c)   Gettysburg   PA   RV   89       465   194   100.0%   Round Top (c)   Gettysburg   PA   RV   52       391   203   100.0%   Circle M   Lancaster   PA   RV   103   13   380   85   100.0%   Hershey   Lebanon   PA   RV   196   20   297   59   100.0%   Robin Hill   Lenhartsville   PA   RV   44   4   270   127   100.0%   Dutch County   Manheim   PA   RV   102   60   269   93   100.0%   Spring Gulch   New Holland   PA   RV   114   27   420   145   100.0%   Lil Wolf   Orefield   PA   MH   56       269   269   94.8%   Scotrun   Scotrun   PA   RV   63   6   178   117   100.0%   Appalachian   Shartlesville   PA   RV   86   30   358   203   100.0%   Mountain View-PA   Walnutport   PA   MH   45   1   187   187   90.4%   Timber Creek   Westerly   RI   RV   108       364   363   100.0%   Total Northeast Market               5,224   832   20,307   14,563   97.4%                                       Southeast:                                   Hidden Cove   Arley   AL   RV   99   34   163   55   100.0%   Diamond Caverns Resort & Golf Club   Park City   KY   RV   714   218   220   32   100.0%   Forest Lake   Advance   NC   RV   306   34   305   163   100.0%   Scenic   Asheville   NC   MH   28   2   194   194   100.0%   Waterway RV   Cedar Point   NC   RV   27       336   334   100.0%   Twin Lakes   Chocowinity   NC   RV   132   11   419   344   100.0%   Green Mountain Park   Lenoir   NC   RV   1,077   3   447   157   100.0%   Lake Gaston   Littleton   NC   RV   69       235   205   100.0%   Lake Myers RV   Mocksville   NC   RV   74       425   259   100.0%   Bogue Pines   Newport   NC   MH   50       150   150   77.3%   Goose Creek Resort   Newport   NC   RV   92       735   670   100.0%   Whispering Pines RV   Newport   NC   RV   34       278   182   100.0%   White Oak Shores (c)   Stella   NC   RV   158       455   395   100.0%   Carolina Landing   Fair Play   SC   RV   73   30   192   47   100.0%   Inlet Oaks   Murrells Inlet   SC   MH   35       172   172   100.0%   The Oaks at Point South   Yemassee   SC   RV   10       93   15   100.0%   Natchez Trace   Hohenwald   TN   RV   672   340   531   225   100.0%   Cherokee Landing   Saulsbury   TN   RV   254   124   339   5   100.0%   28 Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19   Meadows of Chantilly   Chantilly   VA   MH   82       499   499   100.0%   Harbor View   Colonial Beach   VA   RV   69       146   59   100.0%   Lynchburg   Gladys   VA   RV   170   59   222   58   100.0%   Chesapeake Bay   Gloucester   VA   RV   282   80   392   147   100.0%   Virginia Landing   Quinby   VA   RV   863       233   7   100.0%   Grey's Point   Topping   VA   RV   125   16   791   529   100.0%   Bethpage   Urbanna   VA   RV   271   104   1,034   595   100.0%   Williamsburg   Williamsburg   VA   RV   65   10   211   86   100.0%   Regency Lakes   Winchester   VA   MH   165       523   523   99.4%   Total Southeast Market               5,996   1,065   9,740   6,107   99.4%                                       Midwest:                                   O'Connell's   Amboy   IL   RV   286   89   725   396   100.0%   Pheasant Lake Estates   Beecher   IL   MH   160   112   613   613   97.4%   Pine Country   Belvidere   IL   RV   131   10   185   163   100.0%   Willow Lake Estates   Elgin   IL   MH   111       616   616   88.8%   Golf Vista Estates   Monee   IL   MH   144   15   408   408   96.3%   Indian Lakes   Batesville   IN   RV   545   104   1,058   575   100.0%   Horseshoe Lakes   Clinton   IN   RV   289   66   123   93   100.0%   Twin Mills RV   Howe   IN   RV   137   24   501   235   100.0%   Lakeside   New Carlisle   IN   RV   13       89   89   100.0%   Bear Cave Resort   Buchanan   MI   RV   25   10   136   46   100.0%   Saint Claire   Saint Claire   MI   RV   210   100   229   135   100.0%   Cedar Knolls   Apple Valley   MN   MH   93       457   457   92.6%   Cimarron Park   Lake Elmo   MN   MH   230   46   505   505   88.9%   Rockford Riverview Estates   Rockford   MN   MH   88       428   428   91.8%   Rosemount Woods   Rosemount   MN   MH   50   12   182   182   98.9%   Buena Vista   Fargo   ND   MH   76       399   399   78.7%   Meadow Park   Fargo   ND   MH   17       116   116   76.7%   Kenisee Lake   Jefferson   OH   RV   143   50   119   79   100.0%   Wilmington   Wilmington   OH   RV   109   41   169   121   100.0%   Rainbow Lake Manor   Bristol   WI   MH   99   14   270   270   97.8%   Fremont   Fremont   WI   RV   98   5   325   130   100.0%   Yukon Trails   Lyndon Station   WI   RV   150   30   214   138   100.0%   Blackhawk   Milton   WI   RV   214   24   490   340   100.0%   Lakeland RV   Milton   WI   RV   107   5   682   423   100.0%   Westwood Estates   Pleasant Prairie   WI   MH   95       344   344   93.9%   Plymouth Rock   Plymouth   WI   RV   133   40   610   412   100.0%   Tranquil Timbers   Sturgeon Bay   WI   RV   125       270   196   100.0%   29 Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19   Lake of the Woods (c)   Wautoma   WI   RV   117       303   156   100.0%   Neshonoc Lakeside   West Salem   WI   RV   48       284   189   100.0%   Arrowhead   Wisconsin Dells   WI   RV   166   40   377   196   100.0%   Total Midwest Market               4,209   837   11,227   8,450   95.7%                                       Nevada, Utah and Idaho:                                   Coach Royale   Boise   ID   MH   12       91   91   92.3%   Maple Grove   Boise   ID   MH   38       271   271   87.5%   Shenandoah Estates   Boise   ID   MH   24       153   153   100.0%   West Meadow Estates   Boise   ID   MH   29       178   178   100.0%   Mountain View - NV   Henderson   NV   MH   72       354   354   100.0%   Bonanza   Las Vegas   NV   MH   43       353   353   55.2%   Boulder Cascade   Las Vegas   NV   MH   39       299   299   78.9%   Cabana   Las Vegas   NV   MH   37       263   263   98.5%   Flamingo West   Las Vegas   NV   MH   37       258   258   99.6%   Las Vegas   Las Vegas   NV   RV   11       217   22   100.0%   Villa Borega   Las Vegas   NV   MH   40       293   293   77.5%   Westwood Village   Farr West   UT   MH   46       314   314   100.0%   St. George (g)   Hurricane   UT   RV   26   4   123   —   —%   All Seasons   Salt Lake City   UT   MH   19       121   121   100.0%   Total Nevada, Utah and Idaho Market               473   4   3,288   2,970   88.8%                                       Northwest:                                   Cultus Lake (Canada) (e)   Lindell Beach   BC   RV   15       178   51   100.0%   Thousand Trails Bend   Bend   OR   RV   289   116   351   57   100.0%   Shadowbrook   Clackamas   OR   MH   21       156   156   100.0%   Pacific City   Cloverdale   OR   RV   105   50   307   28   100.0%   Falcon Wood Village   Eugene   OR   MH   23       183   183   100.0%   Portland Fairview   Fairview   OR   RV   30       407   263   100.0%   Quail Hollow (e)   Fairview   OR   MH   21       137   137   100.0%   South Jetty   Florence   OR   RV   57   5   204   6   100.0%   Seaside Resort   Seaside   OR   RV   80   7   251   44   100.0%   Whaler's Rest Resort   South Beach   OR   RV   39   5   170   19   100.0%   Mt. Hood   Welches   OR   RV   115   10   515   165   100.0%   Birch Bay   Blaine   WA   RV   31   7   246   24   100.0%   Mt. Vernon   Bow   WA   RV   311       251   29   100.0%   Chehalis   Chehalis   WA   RV   309       360   24   100.0%   Grandy Creek   Concrete   WA   RV   63       179   1   100.0%   Tall Chief (g)   Fall City   WA   RV   71       180   —   —%   30 Property   City   State   Property Type   Acres  (a)   Developable Acres  (b)   Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/19   Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/19   Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/19   Kloshe Illahee   Federal Way   WA   MH   50       258   258   100.0%   La Conner (e)   La Conner   WA   RV   106       319   42   100.0%   Leavenworth   Leavenworth   WA   RV   255   30   266   15   100.0%   Thunderbird Resort   Monroe   WA   RV   45   6   136   19   100.0%   Little Diamond   Newport   WA   RV   360   30   520   2   100.0%   Oceana Resort   Ocean City   WA   RV   16   7   84   9   100.0%   Crescent Bar Resort   Quincy   WA   RV   14       115   15   100.0%   Long Beach   Seaview   WA   RV   17   10   144   15   100.0%   Paradise Resort   Silver Creek   WA   RV   60       214   8   100.0%   Total Northwest Market               2,503   283   6,131   1,570   100.0%                                       Texas:                                   Alamo Palms   Alamo   TX   RV   58       643   315   100.0%   Bay Landing   Bridgeport   TX   RV   443   235   293   73   100.0%   Colorado River   Columbus   TX   RV   218   51   132   26   100.0%   Victoria Palms   Donna   TX   RV   117       1,122   488   100.0%   Lake Texoma (e)   Gordonville   TX   RV   201   120   301   80   100.0%   Lakewood   Harlingen   TX   RV   30       301   137   100.0%   Paradise Park RV   Harlingen   TX   RV   60       563   277   100.0%   Sunshine RV   Harlingen   TX   RV   84       1,027   370   100.0%   Tropic Winds   Harlingen   TX   RV   112   65   531   203   100.0%   Medina Lake   Lakehills   TX   RV   208   50   387   60   100.0%   Paradise South   Mercedes   TX   RV   49       493   194   100.0%   Lake Tawakoni (e)   Point   TX   RV   324   11   293   86   100.0%   Fun n Sun RV Park   San Benito   TX   RV   135   40   1,435   637   100.0%   Country Sunshine   Weslaco   TX   RV   37       390   159   100.0%   Southern Comfort   Weslaco   TX   RV   40       403   323   100.0%   Lake Whitney   Whitney   TX   RV   403   158   261   32   100.0%   Lake Conroe   Willis   TX   RV   129   7   620   253   100.0%   Total Texas Market               2,648   737   9,195   3,713   100.0%   Grand Total All Markets               39,508   5,289   152,914   109,314   96.8%   ____________________________________ (a)   Acres are approximate. For certain Properties, the acres were estimated based on 10 Sites per acre. (b)   Acres are approximate. There can be no assurance that developable acres will be developed. Development is contingent on many factors including, but not limited to, cost, ability to subdivide, accessibility, infrastructure needs, zoning, entitlement and topography. (c)   Property acquired in 2019. (d)   Property developed in 2019. (e)   Land has been leased to us under a non-cancelable operating lease, including one Loggerhead Marina Property (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 3. Leases).  (f)   Acres for this community have been included in the acres of the adjacent community listed directly above this Property. (g)   Property did not have annual Sites for 2019. 31 Item 3. Legal Proceedings The description of legal proceedings is incorporated herein by reference from Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16. Commitment and Contingencies in this Form 10-K. 