Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 39 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 55 Forward-Looking Statements 56 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 57 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 57 Item 9B. Other Information 57 PART III. Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 58 Item 11. Executive Compensation 58 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 58 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 58 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 58 PART IV. Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 59 Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 61     -i- PART I Item 1. Business Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. General Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. ("ELS"), a Maryland corporation, together with MHC Operating Limited Partnership (the "Operating Partnership") and its other consolidated subsidiaries (the "Subsidiaries"), are referred to herein as "we," "us," and "our." We are a fully integrated owner and operator of lifestyle-oriented properties ("Properties") consisting primarily of manufactured home ("MH") and recreational vehicle ("RV") communities. We were formed in December 1992 to continue the property operations, business objectives and acquisition strategies of an entity that had owned and operated Properties since 1969. Commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1993, we have elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have a unique business model where we own the land upon which we provide our customers the opportunity to place factory-built homes including manufactured homes, cottages or RVs either on a long-term or short-term basis. Additionally, we own marinas that provide boat slip and dry storage rentals. Our customers may lease individual developed areas ("Sites") or enter into right-to-use contracts, also known as membership subscriptions, which provide them access to specific Properties for limited stays. Compared to other types of real estate companies, our business model is characterized by low maintenance costs and low customer turnover costs. Our portfolio is geographically diversified across highly desirable locations near retirement and vacation destinations and urban areas across the United States. We have more than 100 Properties with lake, river or ocean frontage and more than 120 Properties within 10 miles of the coastal United States. Our Properties generally attract retirees, vacationing families, second homeowners and first-time homebuyers by providing a community experience and a lower-cost home ownership alternative. We are one of the nation's largest real estate networks with a portfolio of 422 Properties (including joint venture Properties) consisting of 160,489 Sites located throughout 33 states in the U.S. and British Columbia in Canada as of December 31, 2020. 1 Our Properties are designed and improved for housing options of various sizes and layouts that are produced off-site by third-party manufacturers, installed and set on designated Sites within the Properties. Manufactured homes and cottages can range from approximately 400 to over 2,000 square feet. Properties may also have Sites that can accommodate a variety of RVs. We also have marinas that offer boat slip and dry storage rentals. In addition to centralized entrances, internal road systems and designated Sites, our Properties generally provide a clubhouse for social activities and recreation and other amenities, which can include swimming pools, shuffleboard courts, tennis courts, pickleball courts, golf courses, lawn bowling, restaurants, laundry facilities, cable television and internet service. Some Properties provide utilities, including water and sewer service, through municipal or regulated utilities, while others provide these services to customers from on-site facilities. Human Capital Management We recognize that our success is driven by our employees. We invest in our employees and are committed to developing our employees’ skills and leadership abilities throughout our business. As a result, we believe our employees are dedicated to building strong, innovative and long-term relationships with each other and with our residents and guests. We have an annual average of approximately 4,000 full-time, part-time and seasonal employees dedicated to carrying out our operating philosophy while focusing on delivering an exceptional customer experience for our residents and guests. Our property operations are managed internally by affiliates of the Operating Partnership and are coordinated by an on-site team of employees that typically includes a manager, clerical staff and maintenance workers. The on-site team at each Property is primarily responsible for providing maintenance and care to the property itself as well as customer service and, at times, coordinating lifestyle-oriented activities for our residents and guests. Direct supervision of on-site management is the responsibility of our regional vice presidents and regional and district managers, who have substantial experience addressing customer needs and creating innovative approaches to maximize value for residents and guests, which we believe also creates value for our stockholders, through focused and effective property management. Complementing the field management staff are approximately 500 full-time corporate and regional employees who assist in all functions related to the management of our Properties. We are committed to attracting and retaining a workforce that reflects the diversity of our residents and guests and to providing a safe and inclusive environment where our team members are encouraged to demonstrate their unique skill sets and bring a personal touch to their work. We are committed to maintaining workplaces free from discrimination or harassment on the basis of color, race, sex, national origin, ethnicity, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identification or expression or any other status protected by applicable law. We value the many contributions of a diverse workforce and understand that diverse backgrounds bring diverse perspectives, resulting in unique insights. We provide equal employment opportunities to all persons, in accordance with the principles and requirements of the Equal Employment Opportunities Commission and the principles and requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act. As of December 31, 2020, more than 50% of our workforce self-identified as female and more than 50% of our management positions are held by individuals self-identifying as female. To attract diverse applicants, we have partnered with third parties and post openings to a wide variety of job boards. We also have an annual internship program designed to, among other things, create a pipeline of qualified candidates for positions within the Company and to attract diverse candidates. We recognize the importance of experienced leadership, and, as of December 31, 2020, the average tenure for the executive team was 15 years. The average age of our team members is 51, with ages spanning multiple generations, similar to our residents and guests. ELS is a place where talent is recognized, and internal growth is promoted. Our employees are fairly compensated, without regard to gender, race and ethnicity, and routinely recognized for outstanding performance. Our compensation program is designed to attract and retain talent. We continually assess and strive to enhance employee satisfaction and engagement. All employees are supported with a strong training and development program and a well-rounded benefits plan to help them maintain their health and financial well-being. Employees are offered flexibility to meet personal and family needs. Whether we are working with customers or vendors, our actions are guided by a clear set of established principles. We hold ourselves accountable for ethical business practices. All employees, management and our Board of Directors are expected to act with honesty, integrity, fairness and respect. To support this culture, all team members receive annual compliance training focused on compliant and ethical interactions with peers, residents, guests, vendors and others in our communities and offices. Providing a safe and healthy work environment for our team members is a top priority, and we empower them to take ownership in this effort. Each employee is assigned a safety-related training curriculum tailored to their job responsibilities. All employees are encouraged to report any conditions in their workplace that raise health or safety concerns without fear of retaliation. 2 In addition to foundational safety and compliance training, team members participate in virtual and in-person learning experiences including formal new employee and manager development programs, a “Day in the Life” program providing office-based employees an opportunity to be fully immersed in the day-to-day operations at our communities, customer experience training focused on varying elements that support our values for property team members and diversity equity and inclusion programs to support the sense of belonging, awareness and connection at ELS. We encourage our employees to take time away from work to focus on their physical and mental well-being and offer a comprehensive benefit package including paid parental and paid family leave programs that exceed minimum regulatory requirements, paid volunteer time off and an expanded paid sick leave during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we offer a competitive 401(k) plan that provides for an employer match of up to 4% with 100% vesting of all contributions immediately upon eligibility and an Employee Stock Purchase Plan providing a 15% discount for all eligible employees. Employees in our corporate and regional offices are both returning to their work locations and working remotely. We are continuing to keep our focus on employee safety and our ability to adapt to changing demands and local, federal and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ("CDC") guidelines. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have increased leadership updates and communication, including virtual townhall meetings, to ensure that employees remain engaged and informed. In addition, property team members were provided with two appreciation awards in the form of a monetary bonus and additional time off to recognize them for their efforts during the pandemic. For discussion of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business to date see the COVID-19 Pandemic Update in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The extent of the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business going forward, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, is dependent on multiple factors, many of which are unknown. For additional information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our Formation Our Properties are primarily owned by our Operating Partnership and managed internally by affiliates of our Operating Partnership. We are the general partner of the Operating Partnership. We contributed the proceeds from our various equity offerings, including our initial public offering, to the Operating Partnership. In exchange for these contributions, we received units of common interests in the partnership ("OP Units") equal to the number of shares of common stock that have been issued in such equity offerings. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Since certain activities, if performed by us, may not be qualifying REIT activities under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), we have formed taxable REIT subsidiaries (each, a "TRS") to engage in such activities. Realty Systems, Inc. ("RSI") is our wholly-owned TRS, which owns several Properties. Additionally, RSI is engaged in the business of purchasing, selling and leasing factory-built homes located in Properties owned and managed by us. RSI also offers home sale brokerage services to our residents who may choose to sell their homes rather than relocate them when moving from a Property. Subsidiaries of RSI also operate ancillary activities at certain Properties, such as golf courses, pro shops, stores and restaurants. The financial results of the Operating Partnership and Subsidiaries are included in our consolidated financial statements, which can be found beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K. Operating Strategies Our operating strategy is to own and operate the highest quality Properties in sought-after locations near retirement and vacation destinations and urban areas across the United States. Through management of desirable Properties that provide an exceptional customer experience, we create communities valued by residents and guests while delivering value for stockholders. We focus on Properties that have strong cash flows and plan to hold such Properties for long-term investment and capital appreciation. In determining cash flow potential, we evaluate our ability to attract high quality customers to our Properties and retain customers who take pride in the Property and in their homes. Our operating, investment and financing initiatives include: • Consistently providing high levels of services and amenities in attractive surroundings to foster a strong sense of community and pride of home ownership; • Efficiently managing the Properties to add value, grow occupancy, maintain competitive market rents and control expenses; • Incorporating environmental, social and governance ("ESG") considerations into our business and ensuring sustainability is embedded in our business operations; • Achieving growth and increasing property values through strategic expansion and, where appropriate, renovation of the Properties; 3 • Utilizing technology to evaluate potential acquisitions, identify and track competing properties and monitor existing and prospective customer satisfaction; • Selectively acquiring properties that offer opportunities for us to add value and enhance or create property concentrations in and around retirement or vacation destinations and urban areas to capitalize on operating synergies and incremental efficiencies; • Selectively acquiring parcels of land adjacent to our Properties that offer opportunities for us to expand our existing communities with additional Sites; • Selecting joint venture partners that share business objectives, growth initiatives, and risk profiles similar to ours; • Managing our debt balance in order to maintain financial flexibility, minimize exposure to interest rate fluctuations and maintain an appropriate degree of leverage to maximize return on capital; and • Developing and maintaining relationships with various capital providers. These initiatives and their implementation were determined by our management team and ratified by our Board of Directors and may be subject to change or amendment at any time. Acquisitions and Dispositions We invest in properties in sought-after locations near retirement and vacation destinations and urban areas across the United States with a focus on delivering value for residents and guests as well as stockholders. Over the last decade, we have continued to increase the number of Properties in our portfolio (including joint venture Properties), from approximately 307 Properties with over 111,000 Sites to 422 Properties with over 160,400 Sites as of December 31, 2020. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we acquired nine Properties (one MH community, seven RV communities and one marina) with approximately 2,772 Sites. We continually review the Properties in our portfolio to ensure we are delivering on our business and customer service objectives. Over the last five years, we redeployed capital to Properties in markets we believe have greater long-term potential and sold five all-age MH communities located in Indiana and Michigan that were not aligned with our long-term goals. We believe there continues to be opportunities for property acquisitions. Based on industry reports, we estimate there are approximately 50,000 MH properties and approximately 8,000 RV properties (excluding government owned properties) in North America and approximately 4,500 marinas in the U.S. Many of these properties are not operated by large owners/operators, and approximately 3,700 of the MH properties, 1,100 of the RV properties and 500 of the marinas contain 200 sites or more. We believe this relatively high degree of fragmentation provides us the opportunity to purchase additional properties. We also believe we have a competitive advantage in the acquisition of additional properties due to our experienced management, significant presence in major real estate markets and access to capital resources. We are actively seeking to acquire and are engaged at any time in various stages of negotiations relating to the possible acquisition of additional properties, which may include outstanding contracts to acquire properties that are subject to the satisfactory completion of our due diligence review. We anticipate that new acquisitions will generally be located in the United States, although we may consider other geographic locations provided they meet our acquisition criteria. We utilize market information systems to identify and evaluate acquisition opportunities, including the use of a market database to review the primary economic indicators of the various locations in which we expect to expand our operations. Acquisitions will be financed from the most efficient available sources of capital, which may include undistributed Funds from Operations ("FFO"), issuance of additional equity securities, including under our at-the market ("ATM") equity offering program, sales of investments, collateralized and uncollateralized borrowings, including our existing line of credit, and issuance of debt securities. In addition, we have acquired and expect to acquire properties in transactions that include the issuance of OP Units as consideration for the acquired properties. We believe that an ownership structure that includes our Operating Partnership has permitted and will permit us to acquire additional properties in transactions that may defer all or a portion of the sellers' tax consequences. When evaluating potential acquisitions, we consider, among others, the following factors: • Current and projected cash flows of the property; • Geographic area and the type of property; • Replacement cost of the property, including land values, entitlements and zoning; • Location, construction quality, condition and design of the property, including vacant land and its location relative to one or more of our existing properties; • Potential for capital appreciation of the property; • Terms of tenant leases or usage rights; 4 • Opportunity to enhance the customer experience and add value through management expertise; • Potential for economies of scale through property concentrations; • Potential for economic growth and the tax and regulatory environment of the community in which the property is located; • Potential for expansion, including increasing the number of Sites; • Occupancy and demand by customers for properties of a similar type in the vicinity; • Prospects for liquidity through sale, financing or refinancing of the property; • Competition from existing properties and the potential for the construction of new properties in the area; and • Working capital demands. When evaluating potential dispositions, we consider, among others, the following factors: • Whether the Property meets our current investment criteria; • Our desire to exit certain non-core markets and reallocate the capital into core markets; and • Our ability to sell the Property at a price that we believe will provide an appropriate return for our stockholders. When investing capital, we consider all potential uses of the capital, including returning capital to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors periodically reviews the conditions under which we may repurchase our stock. These conditions include, but are not limited to, market price, balance sheet flexibility, other opportunities and capital requirements. Property Expansions Development - Current Portfolio.  An integral part of our growth and investment strategy is to evaluate each Property for expansion opportunities. Investment evaluation consists of reviewing the following: local market conditions, demographic trends, zoning and entitlements, infrastructure requirements, financial feasibility, projected performance and property operations. When justified, development of land available for expansion ("Expansion Sites") allows us to leverage existing facilities and amenities. We believe our ability to increase density translates to greater value creation and cash flows through operational efficiencies. Overall, approximately 126 of our Properties have potential Expansion Sites, offering approximately 5,600 available acres. Refer to Item 2. Properties, which includes detail regarding the developable acres available at each property. Acquisition - Expanding Portfolio.  In selecting acquisition targets, we focus on properties with existing operations in place and contiguous Expansion Sites. Underwriting a project with these features allows us to access the previously untapped potential of such properties. For example, over the past three years, we have acquired 32 Properties, three development assets and 12 land parcels that contain approximately 894 acres for future expansion. Sustainability Strategy ELS’ commitment to sustainability embraces a holistic approach which aims to support our business model, minimize our environmental impact, maintain a safe and healthy workplace and uphold a high standard of business ethics and conduct. We understand the value of continuing to focus on sustainable practices and the highest standard of business ethics and practices, as they are critical to our overall success and building long-term stakeholder value. In 2019, we formed an Environmental, Social, and Governance Taskforce ("ESG Taskforce") to support our on-going commitment to environmental, social, governance and other public policy matters relevant to us (collectively "ESG Matters"). Led by the sustainability team and overseen by our Chief Operating Officer, the ESG Taskforce is comprised of a cross-functional team of employees from asset management, investor relations, compliance, communications, operations, marketing, risk management, financial reporting, legal and human resources. The ESG Taskforce reports on ESG Matters to the Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors and senior management. The Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for the review of our ESG strategy, initiatives and policies. Additionally, the Audit Committee is responsible for the discussion and review of policies with respect to risk assessment and risk management, including, but not limited to, human rights and ESG risks. At ELS, sustainability is at the core of Our Nature through Uniting People, Places & Purpose. Our People.  With a culture of recognition and reputation for excellence, our employees are empowered to take ownership in their jobs and make a difference. ELS is a place where talent is recognized and internal growth is promoted, making it an ideal organization in which to develop a long and successful career. All benefits eligible employees can take time  5 off to volunteer at a charitable organization of their choice. Employees are encouraged to use this time to make a difference in their communities. Making a positive impact in the greater communities in which we operate not only helps us make a difference in the lives of others, but also enhances our knowledge of and connection to the people and places we serve. Throughout our Properties across North America, we work to create a comfortable and welcoming environment for everyone – residents, guests, and employees. Funded through the generosity of our employees and friends of ELS, ConsiderOthers is a 501(c)(3) non-profit charity that provides financial and other assistance to our residents and employees. Additionally, we launched an initiative, Making a Difference in Our Communities, to support the good works in response to COVID-19. From creating care packages to delivering hot meals to making face masks and more, we have seen so many examples of neighbors reaching out to help neighbors, working together to help first responders, doing good works for their greater communities. These acts of kindness enhance the bonds our customers have with each other and to our communities. We are proud to help foster these efforts in our communities. Our Places.  Our Properties are located where our customers aspire to be – where they want to live, work and grow, where they want to retire or raise their family, and where they want to vacation and spend their valued leisure time. We consider it a great responsibility to own and operate lifestyle-oriented properties among diverse landscapes and natural habitats and to ensure our properties remain desirable destinations for future generations. As a result, the consideration of environmental factors has always been part of our culture in the daily operation of our business. Through sustainable practices, we are taking action to use resources efficiently and reduce our impact on the environment. We are committed to seeking opportunities to expand the use of renewable energy throughout our portfolio. Not only do these systems, such as our solar array at Morgan Hill RV Resort in Morgan Hill, CA, reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and electricity expense, they double as a valued amenity we can offer our guests. We are investing in efficient, innovative and smart technology and infrastructure to enhance resident relations, simplify operations and ensure regulatory compliance. We continue to invest in our water and electric meter program to replace submeters with a real time automatic meter reading system to monitor usage and proactively identify water leaks and wasted energy. We are consistently improving the quality of our housing stock through the purchase of ENERGY STAR® certified homes, where available. Our Purpose.  It is of the utmost importance to us that we maintain the highest level of ethical standards in our processes, customs and policies. Whether we are working with customers or vendors, our actions are guided by a clear set of established principles. We hold ourselves accountable for ethical business practices. All facets of ELS, employees, management and our Board of Directors, are expected to act with honesty, integrity, fairness and respect. We have an ESG policy to incorporate ESG considerations into our business and a Human Rights and Labor Rights Statement that confirms our policies on the topics of Fair Labor Practices, Child Labor, Forced Labor and Human Trafficking, Health and Safety, Diversity and Inclusion and Ethical Conduct. To help employees report potential misconduct, we have a confidential multi-lingual Alertline for reporting Ethics and Compliance concerns and a confidential hotline for all employees to report workplace health and safety concerns. We have a stakeholder engagement approach that enables us to understand our stakeholders’ perceptions and concerns, encourages regular dialogue and leverages industry frameworks to communicate our ESG impacts. Further information on our sustainability strategy and ESG efforts can be found on our website at https://www.equitylifestyleproperties.com/sustainability. The information on our internet site is not part of, nor incorporated into, this annual report on Form 10-K. Leases or Usage Rights At our Properties, a typical lease for the rental of a Site between us and the owner or renter of a home is month-to-month or for a one-year term, renewable upon the consent of both parties or, in some instances, as provided by statute. These leases are cancelable, depending on applicable law, for non-payment of rent, violation of Property rules and regulations or other specified defaults. Long-term leases are in effect at approximately 14,991 Sites in 13 of our Properties. Some of these leases are subject to rental rate increases based on the Consumer Price Index ("CPI"), in some instances allowing for pass-throughs of certain items such as real estate taxes, utility expenses and capital expenditures. Generally, adjustments to our rental rates, if appropriate, are made on an annual basis. In Florida, in connection with offering a Site in a MH community for rent, the MH community owner must deliver to the prospective resident a Prospectus required by Florida Statutes Chapter 723.001, et. seq., which must be approved by the applicable regulatory agency. The Prospectus contains certain required disclosures regarding the community, the rights and obligations of the MH community owner and residents, and a copy of the lease agreement. A Prospectus may contain limitations on the rights of the MH community owner to increase rental rates. However, in the absence of such limitations, the MH community owner may increase rental rates to market, subject to certain advance notice requirements and a statutory requirement that the rental rates be reasonable. See further discussion below related to rent control legislation. 6 At Properties zoned for RV use, we have long-term relationships with many of our seasonal and transient residents and guests, who typically enter into short-term rental agreements. Generally, these residents and guests cannot live full time on these Properties for reasons including their seasonal nature. Many of them also leave deposits to reserve a Site for the following year. Properties operated under the Thousand Trails brand are primarily utilized to serve subscription members. Available Sites within these Properties may also be utilized by non-members. A membership subscription grants the member access to these Properties on a continuous basis of up to 14 days in exchange for an annual payment. In addition, members are eligible to upgrade their subscriptions, which increase usage rights during the membership term. Each membership upgrade requires a non-refundable upfront payment, for which we offer financing options to eligible members. Most of the subscription contracts provide for an annual dues increase, usually based on increases in the CPI. Regulations and Insurance General . Our Properties are subject to a variety of laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to recreational facilities such as swimming pools, clubhouses and other common areas, regulations relating to providing utility services, such as electricity, and regulations relating to operating water and wastewater treatment facilities at certain Properties. We believe that each Property has all material permits and approvals necessary to operate. We renew these permits and approvals in the ordinary course of business. Insurance . Our Properties are insured against risks that may cause property damage and business interruption, including events such as fire, flood, earthquake, or windstorm. The relevant insurance policies contain deductible requirements, coverage limits and particular exclusions. Our current property and casualty insurance policies with respect to our MH and RV Properties, which we plan to renew, expire on April 1, 2021. We have a $100.0 million loss limit per occurrence with respect to our MH and RV all-risk property insurance program including named windstorms. This loss limit is subject to additional sub-limits as set forth in the policy form, including, among others, a $25.0 million aggregate loss limit for earthquakes in California. The deductibles for this policy primarily range from a $500,000 minimum to 5.0% per unit of insurance for most catastrophic events. For most catastrophic events, there is an additional one-time $500,000 aggregate deductible. We have separate insurance policies with respect to our marina Properties. Those casualty policies, which we plan to renew, expire on November 1, 2021, and the property insurance program, which expires on April 1, 2022, has a minimum deductible of $100,000. A deductible indicates our maximum exposure, subject to policy limits and sub-limits, in the event of a loss. Rent Control Legislation . At certain Properties, state and local rent control laws dictate the structure of rent increases and, in some cases, outline the ability to recover the costs of capital improvements. Enactment of such laws has been considered at various times in other jurisdictions. We presently expect to continue to maintain Properties and may purchase additional properties in markets that are either subject to rent control or in which rent related legislation exists or may be enacted. For example, Florida law requires that rental increases be reasonable, and Delaware law requires rental increases greater than the changes in the CPI to be justified. Also, certain jurisdictions in California in which we own Properties limit rent increases to changes in the CPI or some percentage of the CPI. As part of our effort to realize the value of Properties subject to restrictive regulations, we have initiated lawsuits at times against various municipalities imposing such regulations in an attempt to balance the interests of our stockholders with the interests of our residents and guests. Membership Properties.  Many states also have consumer protection laws regulating right-to-use or campground membership sales and the financing of such sales. Some states have laws requiring us to register with a state agency and obtain a permit to market (see Item 1A. Risk Factors). At certain Properties primarily used as membership campgrounds, state statutes limit our ability to close a Property unless a reasonable substitute Property is made available for members to use. Industry We believe that demand for manufactured housing and RV communities will continue to outpace supply in the near future. We expect much of this demand will continue to come from baby boomers, who may seek an active RV lifestyle or a permanent retirement or vacation establishment. In addition, we expect the exposure to Millennials and Generation X will contribute to the demand, as these groups focus on affordability, prefer housing quality over size and pursue unique experiences. We believe that our Properties and our business model provide an attractive destination for customers as they seek value in their housing and recreational options. Positive trends in categories such as customer demographics, the quality of manufactured housing construction and limited property supply, among others, fuel our belief that our Properties are well positioned for the future: • Barriers to Entry:  We believe that the supply of new properties in locations we target will be constrained by barriers to entry. While we have seen a moderate increase in ground-up development, primarily of RV properties, the most  7 significant barrier continues to be the difficulty of securing zoning permits from local authorities. This has been the result of (i) the public perception of manufactured housing, and (ii) the fact that MH and RV communities generate less tax revenue than conventional housing properties because the homes are treated as personal property (a benefit to the homeowner) rather than real property. Further, the length of time between investment in a property's development and the attainment of stabilized occupancy and the generation of profit is significant. The initial development of the infrastructure may take up to three years and once a property is ready for occupancy, it may be difficult to attract customers to an empty property. • Customer Base : We believe that properties tend to achieve and maintain a stable rate of occupancy due to the following factors: (i) customers typically own their own homes, (ii) properties tend to foster a sense of community as a result of amenities, such as clubhouses and recreational and social activities, (iii) customers often sell their homes in-place (similar to site-built residential housing), resulting in no interruption of rental payments to us, and (iv) moving a factory-built home from one property to another involves substantial cost and effort. • Lifestyle Choice : There are currently over 1 million RV camp sites in privately owned RV parks and campgrounds in the United States per the National Association of RV Parks and Campgrounds ("ARVC"). According to the Recreational Vehicle Industry Association ("RVIA") in 2019, RV ownership has reached record levels. More than nine million households now own an RV, a 16% increase since 2011 and a 64% increase since 1980. The 73 million people born in the United States from 1946 to 1964, or "baby boomers," make up one of the largest and fastest growing segments in this market. According to the U.S. Census Bureau in 2019, every day 10,000 Americans turn 65 years old, and all baby boomers will be at least age 65 by 2030. We believe that this population segment, seeking an active lifestyle, will provide opportunities for our future growth. As RV owners age and move beyond the more active RV lifestyle, they will often seek permanent retirement or vacation establishments. Manufactured homes and cottages have become an increasingly popular housing alternative. According to 2018 U.S. Census Bureau National Population Projections figures, the population of people ages 55 and older is expected to grow 17% within the next 15 years. We believe that the housing choices in our Properties are especially attractive to such individuals throughout this lifestyle cycle. Our Properties offer an appealing amenity package, close proximity to local services, social activities, low maintenance and a secure environment. In fact, many of our Properties allow for this cycle to occur within a single Property. Additionally, RV sales are expected to benefit from an increase in demand from those born in the United States from 1980 to 1995, or Millennials, over the coming years, according to the RVIA. The number of consumers between age 30 and 45 is expected to total 72 million by 2025, 13% higher than in 2015. Data collected on RV retail registrations found the share of RV ownership has increased in the younger age brackets between 2015 and 2018. RV ownership for those aged 35 to 44 increased from 18.4% in 2015 to 20.8% in 2018. For those aged 25 to 34, RV ownership increased from 5.0% in 2015 to 8.1% in 2018. The consumers most likely to purchase RVs, according to a study conducted with Nielsen in 2016 by Go RVing, a coalition of RV industry trade groups, are families searching for adventures, individuals looking for locations with natural beauty and opportunities for outdoor sports and recreation, and kid-free adult adventurers enjoying the freedom, convenience and low-cost options of RVs. According to The 2020 North American Camping Report sponsored by Kampgrounds of America, Inc. and conducted by Cairn Consulting Group, the use of RVs as a primary camping accommodation by new campers increased 9% from 2015 to 2019. RVs provide personal space for traveling and 51% of campers say they are more likely to purchase an RV, with campers born in the United States from 1965 to 1979, or Generation X, most inclined to purchase an RV at 62% while Millennial campers had the most interest in full-time RVing at 36%. • Construction Quality:  The Department of Housing and Urban Development's ("HUD") standards for manufactured housing construction quality are the only federal standards governing housing quality of any type in the United States. Manufactured homes produced since 1976 have received a "red and silver" government seal certifying that they were built in compliance with the federal code. The code regulates manufactured home design and construction, strength and durability, fire resistance and energy efficiency, and the installation and performance of heating, plumbing, air conditioning, thermal and electrical systems. In newer homes, top grade lumber and dry wall materials are common. Also, manufacturers are required to follow the same fire codes as builders of site-built structures. In 1994, following the devastation left by Hurricane Andrew, HUD introduced regulations that established different wind zones across the country. As a result, any homes set in place since 1994 must be able to withstand wind speeds of 70 miles per hour in Zone 1, 100 miles per hour in Zone 2 and 110 miles per hour in Zone 3. While most of the United States is designated wind Zone 1, areas most likely to be impacted by hurricanes are either Zone 2 or Zone 3. Although construction of cottages, which are generally smaller homes, do not come under the same HUD regulations, they are built and certified in accordance with National Fire Protection Association ("NFPA") 1192-15 and American National Standards Institute ("ANSI") A119.5 consensus standards for park model recreational vehicles and have  8 many of the same quality features. RVIA operates a safety standards and inspection program that requires member manufacturers of all recreation vehicles, including park model RVs, to certify that each unit built complies with the requirements of the applicable standards. • Comparability to Site-Built Homes:  Since inception, the manufactured housing industry has experienced a trend toward multi-section homes. The average current manufactured homes are approximately 1,438 square feet. Many such homes have nine-foot or vaulted ceilings, fireplaces and as many as four bedrooms, and closely resemble single-family ranch-style site-built homes at a fraction of the price. At our Properties, there is an active resale or rental market for these larger homes. According to the 2019 U.S. Census American Community Survey, manufactured homes represent 8.4% of single-family housing units. • Second Home and Vacation Home Demographics : According to 2020 National Association of Home Builders reports, there were approximately 7.5 million second and vacation homes in 2018, accounting for 5.5% of the total housing stock in 2018. In 2020, the number of recent home buyers who own more than one home was 17%, up from 16% in 2019, according to the National Association of Realtors ("NAR"). NAR reports that owning more than one property was most common for buyers aged 65 years and older at 22%. Additionally, NAR reports that of second homebuyers from October 2015 through September 2020, 39% purchased in resort areas, 16% purchased in small towns and 15% purchased in rural areas. Looking ahead, we expect continued strong demand from baby boomers and Generation X. We believe these individuals will continue to drive the market for second-home sales as vacation properties, investment opportunities, or retirement retreats. We believe it is likely that over the next decade we will continue to see high levels of second-home sales and that homes and cottages in our Properties will continue to provide a viable second-home alternative to site-built homes. Notwithstanding our belief that the industry information highlighted above provides us with significant long-term growth opportunities, our short-term growth opportunities could be disrupted by the following: • Shipments:  According to statistics compiled by the U.S. Census Bureau, manufactured home shipments to dealers increased each year from 2010 to 2018, before declining slightly in 2019. Shipments in 2020 were in line with 2019 at 94,400 units. According to the RVIA, wholesale shipments of RVs increased 6.0% in 2020 to approximately 430,400 units as compared to 2019, on par with the third highest annual shipment total on record. The shipment numbers for 2020 reflect increasing consumer interest in RVing and the growth in consumer demand to purchase RVs that began in the early summer and continued for the remainder of the year. ——————————————————————————————————————————— 1. Source: RVIA 2. U.S. Census: Manufactured Homes Survey • Sales:  Retail sales of RVs totaled approximately 472,233 in 2020, a 13.7% increase from 2019 RV sales of 415,325 and a 7.1% increase from 2018 RV sales of 440,994. We believe consumers viewed RVs as a safe way to enjoy an active outdoor lifestyle, travel and see the country. The enduring appeal of the RV lifestyle has translated into  9 continued strength in RV sales, as 2020 is the highest sales year for the industry. RV sales could continue to benefit from the increased demand from the baby boomers and Millennials. Financing options are also available as RV dealers typically have relationships with third-party lenders, who provide financing for the purchase of a RV. • Availability of financing:  Although RV financing is readily available, the economic and legislative environment has generally made it difficult for buyers of both manufactured homes and RVs to obtain financing. Legislation enacted in 2008 and effective in 2010, known as the SAFE Act (Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act) requires community owners interested in providing financing to buyers of manufactured homes to register as mortgage loan originators in states where they engage in such financing. In comparison to financing available to buyers of site-built homes, the few third-party financing sources available to buyers of manufactured homes offer financing with higher down payments, higher rates and shorter maturities, and loan approval is subject to more stringent underwriting criteria. In 2013, we entered into a joint venture, ECHO Financing, LLC, to buy and sell homes and purchase loans made by an unaffiliated lender to residents at our Properties. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and consolidated financial statements and related notes beginning on page F-1 of this Form 10-K for more detailed information. In 2017, the Federal Housing Finance Agency ("FHFA") published Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's Underserved Markets Plans for 2018-2020 (the "Plans") under the duty-to-serve provisions mandated by the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, as amended by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008. The FHFA mandate requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to serve three specific underserved markets, one of which is the manufactured housing sector. The Plans outline four duty-to-serve focus areas related to manufactured housing, including home purchase financing for customers placing manufactured homes in land lease communities. While this may have a positive impact on the ability of our customers to obtain chattel financing, the actual impact on us as well as the industry cannot be determined at this time. Additionally, the new administration may redefine the objectives of the Plans. Available Information We file reports electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy information and statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. We also maintain a website with information about us as well as our press releases, investor presentations, and filings with the SEC at http://www.equitylifestyleproperties.com, which can be accessed free of charge. We intend to post material on our website from time to time that contains material non-public information. The posting of such information is intended to comply with our disclosure requirements under Regulation Fair Disclosure. Accordingly, in addition to following our SEC filings and public conference calls, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in us to review the business and financial information we post on our website. The information contained on our website, or available by hyperlink from our website, is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or other documents we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Requests for copies of our filings with the SEC and other investor inquiries should be directed to: Investor Relations Department Equity LifeStyle Properties, Inc. Two North Riverside Plaza Chicago, Illinois 60606 Phone: 1-800-247-5279 e-mail: investor_relations@equitylifestyle.com 10 Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These risk factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be material may also affect our actual results. Risks Relating to Our Operations and Real Estate Investments The current pandemic of the novel coronavirus, or COVID-19, has adversely impacted us, and COVID-19, or the future outbreak of other highly infectious or contagious diseases, could materially and adversely impact or disrupt our business, including our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. COVID-19 has had, and another pandemic could have, significant repercussions across regional, national and global economies and financial markets, and has and could continue to trigger periods of regional, national and global economic slowdown or recessions. Many U.S. cities and states, including cities and states where our offices and properties are located, have implemented measures to combat COVID-19, including quarantines, shelter-in-place and stay-at-home orders, social distancing requirements, and restrictions on travel and the types of business that may continue to operate. We have taken actions in response to or in furtherance of these measures, including, but not limited to, temporarily halting RV reservations by incoming transient customers, delaying opening certain of our northern RV communities, closing all indoor amenity areas, pools and playgrounds, introducing a rent deferral program and waiving certain late fees and cancellation fees. These actions have since been discontinued except for some amenities which remain closed, however circumstances may require us to reimplement some or all of these actions. Although vaccines for COVID-19 have been developed, we can provide no assurance as to the timing of the distribution and administration of the vaccines, that the vaccines will be effective and administered in quantities sufficient to address the COVID-19 pandemic, or that there will not be lasting changes in consumer behavior as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic that may impact our business. See "Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - COVID-19 Pandemic Update." The effects of COVID-19 have had and could continue to have, or another pandemic could have, an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which impact could be material, due to, among other factors: • Weaknesses in national, regional or local economies may prevent our residents and customers from paying rent in full or on a timely basis. Federal, state, local, and industry-initiated efforts, including eviction moratoriums, have affected and may continue to affect our ability to collect rent or enforce remedies for the failure to pay rent. These efforts could lead to an increase in our recognition of credit losses related to our rent receivables. In addition, a reduction in the ability or willingness of prospective customers to visit our properties could impact our ability to lease Sites and sell manufactured homes and may result in lower rental income and ancillary operating revenues produced by our Properties. • The seasonal and transient customers that vacation and camp at our Properties, including our RV communities, may be less likely to visit if they have less disposable income for leisure-time activities, or are unable to visit due to health concerns, shelter-in-place and stay-at-home orders, or travel restrictions, including cross-border restrictions from Canada, which have caused and could continue to cause cancellation of existing reservations and reduced transient rental income. • A general decline in business activity and discretionary spending could result in fewer customers purchasing membership subscriptions, or existing customers purchasing fewer membership upgrades or failing to pay annual subscription fees or installments on financed upgrade sales. • A reduction in the demand for our Properties due to a general decline in business activity and discretionary spending could adversely affect the value of our Properties. This could lead to an impairment of our real estate investments. In addition, we may be unable to complete planned development of land for expansion or other capital improvement projects on a timely basis or at all due to government-mandated shutdowns or an inability by our third-party contractors to continue to work on construction projects. • A general decline in business activity or demand for real estate transactions could adversely affect our ability or desire to acquire additional properties, including through our joint ventures. • The financial impact of COVID-19 could negatively impact our ability to comply with financial covenants in our credit arrangements and result in a default and potentially an acceleration of indebtedness, which non-compliance could negatively impact our ability to make additional borrowings under our credit facilities. • A severe disruption and instability in the global financial markets or a deterioration in credit and financing conditions may affect our ability to access capital necessary to fund business operations, including the acquisition or expansion of properties, or replace or renew maturing liabilities on a timely basis, on attractive terms, or at all and may adversely affect the valuation of financial assets and liabilities. 11 • COVID-19 could negatively affect the health, availability and productivity of our current personnel. It could also affect our ability to recruit and attract new employees and retain current employees whose hours have been reduced. An outbreak of COVID-19 that directly affects, or threatens to directly affect, any of our properties could also deter or prevent our on-site personnel from reporting to work. The effects of shelter-in-place and stay-at-home orders, including remote work arrangements for an extended period of time, could strain our business continuity plans, introduce operational risk, including but not limited to cybersecurity risks, and impair our ability to manage our business. Further, we have and may continue to implement mitigation and other measures to support and protect our employees, which could result in increased labor costs. The rapid development and fluidity of the circumstances resulting from COVID-19 precludes any prediction as to the ultimate adverse impact of COVID-19. Nevertheless, COVID-19 and the current financial, economic and capital markets environment, and future developments in these and other areas present material uncertainty and risk with respect to our performance, financial condition, volume of business, results of operations and cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. The Economic Performance and Value of Our Properties Are Subject to Risks Associated with The Real Estate Industry . The economic performance and value of our Properties could be adversely affected by various factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include but are not limited to the following: • changes in the national, regional and/or local economies; • the attractiveness of our Properties to customers, competition from other MH and RV communities and lifestyle-oriented properties and alternative forms of housing (such as apartment buildings and site-built single-family homes); • the ability of MH and RV manufacturers to adapt to changes in the economy and the availability of units from these manufacturers; • the ability of our potential customers to sell or lease their existing residences in order to purchase homes or cottages at our Properties, and heightened price sensitivity for seasonal and second homebuyers; • the ability of our potential customers to obtain financing on the purchase of homes, cottages or RVs; • our ability to attract new customers and retain them for our membership subscriptions and upgrade sales business; • our ability to collect payments from customers and pay or control operating costs, including real estate taxes and insurance; • the ability of our assets to generate income sufficient to pay our expenses, service our debt and maintain our Properties; • our ability to diversify and sell our Properties timely due to the illiquid nature of real estate investments; • unfavorable weather conditions, especially on holiday weekends in the spring and summer months, which are peak business periods for our transient customers; • changes in climate and the occurrence of natural disasters or catastrophic events, including acts of war and terrorist attacks; • fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to other currencies, primarily the Canadian dollar due to Canadian customers, who frequently visit our southern Properties; • changes in U.S. social, economic and political conditions, laws and governmental regulations, including policies governing rent control, property zoning, taxation, minimum wages, chattel financing, health care, foreign trade, regulatory compliance, manufacturing, development and investment; • fiscal policies, instability or inaction at the U.S. federal government level, which may lead to federal government shutdowns or negative impacts on the U.S. economy; and • COVID-19, or other highly infectious or contagious diseases, which has had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our business. Changes in or the occurrence of any of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, market price of our common stock and our ability to make expected distributions to our stockholders or result in claims, including, but not limited to, foreclosure by a lender in the event of our inability to service our debt. Economic Downturn in Markets with a Large Concentration of Our Properties May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations, Cash Flows and Ability to Make Distributions . Our success is dependent upon economic conditions in the U.S. generally and in the geographic areas where a substantial number of our Properties are located. As we have a large concentration of properties in certain markets, most notably Florida, California and Arizona, which comprise 44.3%, 12.9% and 9.5%, respectively, of our total property operating revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020, adverse market and economic conditions in these areas could significantly affect factors, such as occupancy and rental rates, and could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows  12 and ability to make distributions. Furthermore, stay-at-home orders and travel restrictions could adversely impact the ability of our customers to visit our Properties. In a recession or under other adverse economic conditions, non-earning assets and write-downs are likely to increase as debtors fail to meet their payment obligations. Although we maintain reserves for credit losses in amounts that we believe are sufficient to provide adequate protection against potential write-downs in our portfolio, these amounts could prove to be insufficient. Certain of Our Properties, Primarily Our RV Communities, are Subject to Seasonality and Cyclicality. Some of our RV communities are used primarily by vacationers and campers. These Properties experience seasonal demand, which generally increases in the spring and summer months and decreases in the fall and winter months. As such, results for a certain quarter may not be indicative of the results of future quarters. In addition, since our RV communities are primarily used by vacationers and campers, economic cyclicality resulting in a downturn that affects discretionary spending and disposable income for leisure-time activities could adversely affect our cash flows. Our Properties May Not Be Readily Adaptable to Other Uses. Properties in our portfolio, including marinas and certain RV communities, are specific-use properties and may contain features or assets that have limited alternative uses. These Properties may also have distinct operational functions that involve specific procedures and training. If the operations of any of our Properties become unprofitable due to industry competition, operational execution or otherwise, then it may not be feasible to operate the Property for another use, and the value of certain features or assets used at the Property, or the Property itself, may be impaired. Should any of these events occur, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted. Competition for Acquisitions May Result in Increased Prices for Properties and Associated Costs and Increased Costs of Financing. Other real estate investors with significant capital may compete with us for attractive investment opportunities. Such competition could increase prices for Properties and result in increased fixed costs, including real estate taxes. To the extent we are unable to effectively compete or acquire properties on favorable terms, our ability to expand our business could be adversely affected. New Acquisitions May Fail to Perform as Expected and the Intended Benefits May Not Be Realized, Which Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Operations and the Market Price of Our Common Stock. We intend to continue to acquire Properties. However, newly acquired Properties may fail to perform as expected and could pose risks for our ongoing operations including the following: • integration may prove costly or time-consuming and may divert our attention from the management of daily operations; • we may be unable to access capital or we may encounter difficulties, such as increases in financing costs; • we may incur costs and expenses associated with any undisclosed or potential liabilities; • unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating an acquisition into our portfolio; • expected synergies may not materialize; and • we may acquire properties in new markets where we face risks associated with lack of market knowledge such as understanding of the local economy, the local governmental and/or local permit procedures. As a result of the foregoing, we may not accurately estimate or identify all costs necessary to bring an acquired Property up to standards established for our intended market position. As such, we cannot provide assurance that any acquisition we make will be accretive to us in the near term or at all. Furthermore, if we fail to realize the intended benefits of an acquisition, the market price of our common stock could decline to the extent that the market price reflects those benefits. Development and Expansion Properties May Fail to Perform as Expected and the Intended Benefits May Not Be Realized, Which Could Have a Negative Impact on Our Operations and the Market Price of Our Common Stock. We may periodically consider development and expansion activities, which are subject to risks such as construction costs exceeding original estimates and construction and lease-up delays resulting in increased construction costs and lower than expected revenues. To the extent we engage third-party contractors to complete development or expansion activities, there is no guarantee that they can complete these activities on time and in accordance with our plans and specifications. We may also be unable to obtain necessary entitlements and required governmental permits that could result in increased costs or the delay or abandonment of these activities. Additionally, there can be no assurance that these properties will operate better as a result of  13 development or expansion activities due to various factors, including lower than anticipated occupancy and rental rates causing a property to be unprofitable or less profitable than originally estimated. We Regularly Expend Capital to Maintain, Repair and Renovate Our Properties, Which Could Negatively Impact Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations and Cash Flows. We may, or we may be required to, from time to time make significant capital expenditures to maintain or enhance the competitiveness of our Properties, including the factory-built homes that are located in these Properties. As most of our residents own their homes, the replacement, repairs and refurbishment of these homes may not be within our control. In addition, there is no assurance that any capital expenditure would result in higher occupancy or higher rental rates. The age and quality of the homes in our Properties can impact the desirability of a community and our ability to attract high quality residents and guests. To the extent that the expenditures exceed our available cash, we may need to secure new financing. Our Ability to Renew Ground Leases Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We own the buildings and leasehold improvements at certain Properties that are subject to long-term ground leases. For various reasons, landowners may not want to renew the ground lease agreements with similar terms and conditions, if at all, which could adversely impact our ability to operate these Properties and generate revenues. We have 13 Properties in our portfolio subject to ground lease agreements for land, which we do not own. Four of the 13 Properties, which generated approximately $5.5 million of income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2020, are subject to ground lease agreements with a final expiration date before 2023. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16. Commitment and Contingencies. Our Ability to Sell or Rent Manufactured Homes Could Be Impaired, Resulting in Reduced Cash Flows. Selling and renting homes is a primary part of our business.   Our ability to sell or rent manufactured homes could be adversely affected by any of the following factors: • disruptions in the single-family housing market; • local conditions, such as an oversupply of lifestyle-oriented properties or a reduction in demand for lifestyle-oriented properties; • increased costs to acquire homes; • our ability to obtain an adequate supply of homes at reasonable costs from MH suppliers; • our ability to acquire or develop existing land suitable for home building; • the ability of customers to obtain affordable financing; and • demographics, such as the retirement of "baby boomers", and their demand for access to our lifestyle-oriented Properties. Regulation of Chattel Financing May Affect Our Ability to Sell Homes. Since 2010, the regulatory environment has made it difficult for purchasers of manufactured homes and RVs to obtain financing. The Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act requires community owners interested in providing financing for customer purchases of manufactured homes to register as mortgage loan originators in states where they engage in such financing. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act amended the Truth in Lending Act and other consumer protection laws by adding requirements for residential mortgage loans, including limitations on mortgage origination activities, restrictions on high-cost mortgages and new standards for appraisals. The law also requires lenders to make a reasonable investigation into a borrower's ability to repay a loan. These requirements make it more difficult for homeowners to obtain affordable financing and especially for individuals with moderate income to obtain loans to purchase manufactured housing or RVs. Homeowners' ability to obtain affordable financing could affect our ability to sell homes. Our Investments in Joint Ventures Could Be Adversely Affected by Our Lack of Sole Decision-Making Authority Regarding Major Decisions, Our Reliance on Our Joint Venture Partners' Financial Condition, Any Disputes That May Arise Between Us and Our Joint Venture Partners and Our Exposure to Potential Losses From the Actions of Our Joint Venture Partners. We have joint ventures with other investors. We currently and may continue in the future to acquire properties or make investments in joint ventures with other persons or entities when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. Joint venture investments involve risks not present with respect to our wholly owned Properties, including the following: • o ur joint venture partners may experience financial distress, become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions due to adverse economic conditions, which could delay construction or development of a property, increase our financial commitment to the joint venture or adversely impact the ongoing operations of the joint venture; 14 • our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to a property that conflict with our business interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property; and • we may be unable to take actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners under arrangements that require us to share decision-making authority over major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the venture. At times we have entered into agreements providing for joint and several liability with our partners. Frequently, we and our partners may each have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partners' interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate and recognize attractive returns on our joint venture investments, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and distributions to our stockholders. There is a Risk of Accidents, Injuries or Outbreaks Occurring at Our Properties Which May Negatively Impact Our Operations. While we maintain and promote safety at our Properties, there are inherent risks associated with certain features, assets and activities at our communities. An accident, injury or outbreak at any of our communities, particularly an accident, injury or outbreak involving the safety of residents, guests and employees, may be associated with claims against us involving higher assertions of damages and/or higher public visibility. The occurrence of an accident, injury or outbreak at any of our communities could also cause damage to our brand or reputation, lead to loss of consumer confidence in us, reduce occupancy at our communities and negatively impact our results of operations. Our Success Depends, in Part, on Our Ability to Attract and Retain Talented Employees. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees could significantly impact our future performance. Competition for these individuals is intense, and there is no assurance that we will retain our key officers and employees or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals in the future. Our Business Operations are Dependent on the Effective Operation of Technology. We rely on software and computer systems to process and store information required for our business operations. Additionally, with the outbreak of COVID-19, certain of our corporate and regional staff have been regularly working remotely, further increasing our dependence on technology to complete our business processes. Any disruption to these systems or to third-party vendors that maintain these systems could adversely affect our business operations. While we maintain and require our vendors to maintain appropriate back-up copies of our information, transitioning to a new system or vendor can be time-consuming and disruptive. Additionally, it is important for us to explore and evolve with new developments in technology to stay competitive. For example, our consumers rely on our technology platforms to make reservations, and therefore, these user interfaces must be understandable and easy to use. It may require investment of both time and expense to implement a new system or upgrade our existing technology. Interruptions to any of the above could lead to lost revenues, interruptions in our business operations and damage to our business reputation. Risks Relating to Governmental Regulation and Potential Litigation Changes to Federal and State Laws and Regulations Could Adversely Affect Our Operations and the Market Price of Our Common Stock. Our business operations are subject to certain federal and state laws and regulations including but not limited to the following: • Rent Control Legislation Certain of our Properties are subject to state and local rent control regulations that dictate rent increases and our ability to recover increases in operating expenses and the costs of capital improvements. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, such regulations allow residents to sell their homes for a price that includes a premium above the intrinsic value of the homes. The premium represents the value of the future discounted rent-controlled rents, which is fully capitalized into the prices of the homes sold. In our view, such regulations result in a transfer to the residents of the value of our land, which would otherwise be reflected in market rents. As part of our effort to realize the value of Properties subject to restrictive regulation, we have initiated lawsuits at various times against various municipalities imposing such regulations in an attempt to balance the interests of our stockholders with the interests of our customers. In addition, we operate certain of our Properties, and may acquire  15 additional properties, in high cost markets where the demand for affordable housing may result in the adoption of new rent control legislation that may impact rent increases. We also own Properties in certain areas of the country where rental rates at our Properties have not increased as fast as real estate values either because of locally imposed rent control or long term leases. In such areas, certain local government entities have at times investigated the possibility of seeking to take our Properties by eminent domain at values below the value of the underlying land. While no such eminent domain proceeding has been commenced, and we anticipate exercising all of our rights in connection with any such proceeding, successful condemnation proceedings by municipalities could adversely affect our financial condition. Resident groups have previously filed lawsuits against us seeking to limit rent increases and/or seeking large damage awards for our alleged failure to properly maintain certain Properties or other resident related matters. An adverse finding against us in any such proceeding could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and distributions to our stockholders. • Occupational, Safety and Health Act Our Properties are subject to regulation under the federal Occupational, Safety and Health Act ("OSHA"), which requires employers to provide employees with an environment free from hazards, such as exposure to toxic chemicals, excessive noise levels, mechanical dangers, heat or cold stress and unsanitary conditions. Although we believe that our Properties are in compliance in all material respects with applicable requirements, complying with OSHA and similar laws can be costly and any failure to comply with these regulations could result in penalties or potential litigation. •  Americans with Disabilities Act Under the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA"), all public accommodations and commercial facilities must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Although we believe that our Properties are in compliance in all material respects with applicable requirements, noncompliance with the ADA or related laws or regulations could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or private litigants being awarded damages against us. Such costs may adversely affect our ability to make distributions or payments to our investors. Compliance with the ADA requirements could involve removal of structural barriers to access or use by disabled persons. Other federal, state and local laws may require modifications to or restrict further renovations of our Properties with respect to such access or use. Additionally, Title III of the ADA has been interpreted by the U.S. courts to include websites as "places of public accommodations." For our websites to be ADA compliant, they must be accessible. While no laws have been passed related to website accessibility, the recognized de facto standard in the U.S. is the Web Content Accessibility Guideline. We may incur costs to make our websites ADA compliant or face litigation if they are not compliant. Laws and Regulations Relating to Campground Membership Sales and Properties Could Adversely Affect the Value of Certain Properties and Our Cash Flows. Many of the states in which we operate have laws regulating campground membership sales and properties. These laws generally require comprehensive disclosure to prospective purchasers, and usually give purchasers the right to rescind their purchase between three to five days after the date of sale. Some states have laws requiring us to register with a state agency and obtain a permit to market. We are subject to changes, from time to time, in the application or interpretation of such laws that can affect our business or the rights of our members. In some states, including California, Oregon and Washington, laws place limitations on the ability of the owner of a campground property to close the property unless the customers at the property receive access to a comparable property. The impact of the rights of customers under these laws is uncertain and could adversely affect the availability or timing of sale opportunities or our ability to realize recoveries from Property sales. Certain consumer rights and defenses that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may affect our portfolio of contracts receivable. Examples of such laws include state and federal consumer credit and truth-in-lending laws requiring the disclosure of finance charges, and usury and retail installment sales laws regulating permissible finance charges. 16 Environmental Risks Natural Disasters Could Adversely Affect the Value of Our Properties, Our Financial Condition, Results of Operations and Cash Flows. We are subject to risks associated with natural disasters, including but not limited to hurricanes, storms, fires and earthquakes.   As of December 31, 2020, we owned or had an ownership interest in 422 Properties, including 133 Properties and 12 marinas located in Florida and 50 Properties located in California.   The occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event in any of these areas may cause a sudden decrease in the value of our Properties and result in an adverse effect to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Climate Change May Adversely Affect Our Business. Climate change could increase the frequency and severity of natural disasters and change weather patterns. To the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity, frequency and magnitude of wildfires, rising sea levels, drought and changes to precipitation and temperatures. Our properties are dependent on state and local utility infrastructure for delivery of energy, water supply and/or other utilities. We do not control investment in that infrastructure and the condition of the infrastructure and supply of the utilities may not be sufficient to handle impact resulting from climate change. Over time, these conditions could result in increased incidents of physical damage to our Properties, declining demand for our Properties and increased difficulties operating them. Climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) energy, water supply and other utilities at our Properties and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our Properties against such risks. In addition, climate change could lead to changes in federal, state, and local legislation and regulation, which may require increased capital expenditures at our Properties. Additionally, these capital expenditures may or may not result in lower on-going expenses or make an impact on the desirability of our Properties and our ability to attract high quality residents and guests. Any such losses, increases in costs or business interruptions could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Environmental and Utility-Related Problems are Possible and Can Be Costly. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real property to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or lead or petroleum product releases at such property. The owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. Properties containing lead may require removal of the material. This can be costly and, if the lead infiltrates the groundwater or other water supply, further remediation may be necessary. Such laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties could sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of environmental contamination, including asbestos and wastewater discharge. Such laws require that owners or operators of properties containing hazardous or toxic substances to properly manage them. Owners or operators of properties containing asbestos must notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. Such laws may impose fines and penalties on real property owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. Utility-related laws and regulations also govern the provision of utility services. Such laws regulate, for example, how and to what extent owners or operators of property can charge renters for provision of utilities. Such laws also regulate the operations and performance of utility systems and may impose fines and penalties on real property owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements. The regulations may also require capital investment to maintain compliance. 17 Risks Relating to Debt and the Financial Markets Our Substantial Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Our business is subject to risks normally associated with debt financing. The total principal amount of our outstanding indebtedness was approximately $2,694.9 million as of December 31, 2020, of which $222.0 million, or 8.24%, is related to our line of credit and $148.4 million of secured debt, or 5.51%, matures in 2022. Our substantial indebtedness and the cash flows associated with serving our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the risks that: • our cash flows could be insufficient to pay distributions at expected levels and meet required payments of principal and interest; • we might be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to pay our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund the implementation of our business strategy, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • terms of refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness, resulting in higher interest rates that could adversely affect net income, cash flows and our ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders; • if principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our cash flows may not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt; and • to the extent that any Property is cross-collateralized with any other Properties, any default under the mortgage note relating to one Property could result in a default under the financing arrangements relating to other Properties that also provide security for that mortgage note or are cross-collateralized with such mortgage note. Our Ability to Obtain Mortgage Financing or Refinance Maturing Mortgages May Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition . Lenders' demands on borrowers as to the quality of the collateral and related cash flows may make it challenging to secure financing on attractive terms or at all. Future market factors including increases in the U.S. federal reserve funds rate may result in an increase in market interest rates, which could increase the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness or obtaining new debt. Additionally, future disruptions in capital and credit markets, including potential reforms to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, could impact both the capacity and liquidity of lenders, resulting in financing terms that are less attractive to us and/or the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. This could have an adverse effect on our ability to refinance maturing debt and/or react to changing economic and business conditions. Financial Covenants Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition . If a Property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness, and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the Property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. The mortgages on our Properties contain customary negative covenants, which among other things limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the Property and to discontinue insurance coverage. In addition, our unsecured credit facilities contain certain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including total debt-to-assets ratios, debt service coverage ratios and minimum ratios of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. Foreclosure on mortgaged Properties or an inability to refinance existing indebtedness would likely have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Degree of Leverage Could Limit Our Ability to Obtain Additional Financing . Our debt-to-market-capitalization ratio (total debt as a percentage of total debt plus the market value of the outstanding common stock and OP Units held by parties other than us) was approximately 18.1% as of December 31, 2020. The degree of leverage could have important consequences to stockholders, including an adverse effect on our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes, and could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in business or the economy generally. 18 We May Be Able to Incur Substantially More Debt, Which Would Increase the Risks Associated With Our Substantial Leverage. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, an even greater portion of our cash flow will be needed to satisfy our debt service obligations. As a result, the related risks that we now face could intensify and increase the risk of a default on our indebtedness. We May Be Adversely Affected By Changes in LIBOR Reporting Practices or the Method in Which LIBOR Is Determined. In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority announced it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. Further, in November 2020, ICE Benchmark Administration, the administrator of LIBOR, announced plans to consult on ceasing publication of certain USD-LIBOR rates on June 30, 2023. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee ("ARRC") has proposed that the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") is the rate that represents best practice as the alternative to USD-LIBOR for use in financial contracts that are currently indexed to USD-LIBOR. ARRC has proposed a market transition plan to SOFR from USD-LIBOR and organizations are currently working on industry wide and company specific transition plans as it relates to derivatives and cash markets exposed to USD-LIBOR. Our floating rate borrowings are indexed to USD-LIBOR and we are monitoring this activity and evaluating the related risks. Although the full impact of such reforms and actions, together with any transition away from LIBOR, including the potential or actual discontinuance of LIBOR publication, remains unclear, these changes could have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing, including LIBOR-based loans, and as a result on our financing costs. Risks Related to Our Company Ownership Provisions of Our Charter and Bylaws Could Inhibit Changes of Control. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change of control or other transactions that could provide our stockholders with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of their common stock or future series of preferred stock, if any, which might otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. These include the Ownership Limit described below. Also, any future series of preferred stock may have certain voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Maryland Law Imposes Certain Limitations on Changes of Control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law ("MGCL") prohibit "business combinations" (including certain issuances of equity securities) with any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, or with an affiliate of ours, who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock (an "Interested Stockholder"), or with an affiliate of an Interested Stockholder. These prohibitions last for five years after the most recent date on which the Interested Stockholder became an Interested Stockholder. After the five-year period, a business combination with an Interested Stockholder must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes unless, among other conditions, our common stockholders receive a minimum price for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the Interested Stockholder for shares of our common stock. The Board of Directors has exempted from these provisions under Maryland law any business combination with Samuel Zell, who is Chairman of our Board of Directors, certain holders of OP Units who received them at the time of our initial public offering, and our officers who acquired common stock at the time we were formed and each and every affiliate of theirs. Additionally, Subtitle 8 of Title 3 of the MGCL permits our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to elect to be subject to certain provisions relating to corporate governance that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control of our company that might involve a premium to the market price of our common stock or otherwise be in our stockholders’ best interests. These provisions include a classified board; two-thirds vote to remove a director; that the number of directors may only be fixed by the Board of Directors; that vacancies on the board as a result of an increase in the size of the board or due to death, resignation or removal can only be filled by the board, and the director appointed to fill the vacancy serves for the remainder of the full term of the class of director in which the vacancy occurred; and a majority requirement for the calling by stockholders of special meetings. Through provisions in our charter and bylaws unrelated to Subtitle 8, we already (a) require a two-thirds vote for the removal of any director from the board and (b) vest in the board the exclusive power to fix the number of directorships provided that, if there is stock outstanding and so long as there are three or more stockholders, the number is not less than three. In the future, our Board of Directors may elect, without stockholder approval, to make us subject to the provisions of Subtitle 8 to which we are not currently subject. 19 Our Board of Directors has power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of our bylaws or make new bylaws, provided, however, that our stockholders may, with certain exceptions, alter or repeal any provision of our bylaws and adopt new bylaws if any such alteration, repeal or adoption is approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Changes in Our Investment and Financing Policies May Be Made Without Stockholder Approval. Our investment and financing policies, and our policies with respect to certain other activities, including our growth, debt, capitalization, distributions, REIT status, and operating policies, are determined by our Board of Directors. Although our Board of Directors has no present intention to do so, these policies may be amended or revised from time to time at the discretion of our Board of Directors without notice to or a vote of our stockholders. Accordingly, stockholders may not have control over changes in our policies and changes in our policies may not fully serve the interests of all stockholders. Conflicts of Interest Could Influence Our Decisions . Certain stockholders could exercise influence in a manner inconsistent with stockholders' best interests. Mr. Zell and certain related entities, directly or indirectly, beneficially own shares of our common stock and OP Units as disclosed in our Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A for the 2021 Annual Meeting incorporated by reference herein. Mr. Zell is the chairman of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, Mr. Zell has significant influence on our management and operation. Such influence could be exercised in a manner that is inconsistent with the interests of other stockholders. In addition, Mr. Zell and related entities continue to be involved in other investment activities. Mr. Zell and related entities have a broad and varied range of investment interests, including interests in other real estate investment companies that own other forms of housing, including multifamily housing. Mr. Zell and related entities may acquire interests in other companies. Mr. Zell may not be able to control whether any such company competes with us. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We Depend on Our Subsidiaries' Dividends and Distributions. Substantially all of our assets are owned indirectly by the Operating Partnership. As a result, we have no source of cash flows other than distributions from our Operating Partnership. For us to pay dividends to holders of our common stock, the Operating Partnership must first distribute cash to us. Before it can distribute the cash, our Operating Partnership must first satisfy its obligations to its creditors. Market Interest Rates May Have an Effect on the Value of Our Common Stock. One of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a REIT is the distribution rates with respect to such shares (as a percentage of the price of such shares) relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher distribution rate. Higher interest rates would not, however, result in more of our funds to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our publicly traded securities to go down. Issuances or Sales of Our Common Stock May Be Dilutive. The issuance or sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could have a dilutive effect on our actual and expected earnings per share, FFO per share and Normalized Funds from Operations ("Normalized FFO") per share. We may sell shares of our common stock under our ATM equity offering program from time-to-time. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we did not sell any shares through our ATM equity offering program. As of December 31, 2020, there was $200.0 million available for issuance under our ATM equity program. The actual amount of dilution cannot be determined at this time and would be dependent upon numerous factors which are not currently known to us. Our Share Price Could Be Volatile and Could Decline, Resulting in A Substantial or Complete Loss on Our Stockholders’ Investment. We list our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE"), and our common stock could experience significant price and volume fluctuations. Investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • issuances of other equity securities in the future, including new series or classes of preferred stock; 20 • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • our ability to maintain compliance with covenants contained in our debt facilities; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, funds from operations, cash flows or liquidity; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in our earnings estimates or those of analysts; • changes in our distribution policy; • publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry generally; • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher dividend yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to the amount of our debt outstanding at any time, the amount of our debt maturing in the near-term and medium-term and our ability to refinance our debt, or our plans to incur additional debt in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • speculation in the press or investment community; • equity issuances by us, or share resales by our stockholders or the perception that such issuances or resales may occur; • addition to, or removal from, market indexes used by investors to make investment decisions; • actions by institutional stockholders; and • general market and economic conditions. Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. Those factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. It is impossible to provide any assurance that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future, and it may be difficult for holders to resell shares of our common stock at prices they find attractive, or at all. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. Risks Relating to REITs and Income Taxes We are Dependent on External Sources of Capital. To qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding any net capital gain). In addition, we intend to distribute all or substantially all of our net income so that we will generally not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our earnings. Because of these distribution requirements, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. We therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of debt and equity capital financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including conditions in the capital markets generally and the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. It may be difficult for us to meet one or more of the requirements for qualification as a REIT, including but not limited to our distribution requirement. Moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. We Have a Stock Ownership Limit for REIT Tax Purposes. To remain qualified as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs) at any time during the last half of any taxable year. To facilitate maintenance of our REIT qualification, our charter, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits Beneficial Ownership (as defined in our charter) by any single stockholder of more than 5% (in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding capital stock. We refer to this as the "Ownership Limit." Within certain limits, our charter permits the Board of Directors to increase the Ownership Limit with respect to any class or series of stock. The Board of Directors, upon receipt of a ruling from the IRS, opinion of counsel, or other evidence satisfactory to the Board of Directors and upon 15 days prior written notice of a proposed transfer which, if consummated, would result in the transferee owning shares in excess of the Ownership Limit, and upon such other conditions as the Board of Directors may direct, may exempt a stockholder from the Ownership Limit. Absent any such exemption, capital stock acquired or held in violation of the Ownership Limit will be transferred by operation of law to us as trustee for the benefit of the person to whom such capital stock is ultimately transferred, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. Such stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the capital stock we transferred as trustee, the lesser of (i) the price paid for the capital stock or, if the owner did not pay for the capital stock (for example, in the case of a gift, devise or other such transaction), the market price of the capital stock on the date of the event causing the capital stock to be transferred to us as trustee or (ii) the amount realized from such sale. A transfer of capital stock may be void if it causes a person to violate the Ownership Limit. The Ownership Limit could delay or  21 prevent a change in control of us and, therefore, could adversely affect our stockholders' ability to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for their common stock or adversely affect the best interest of our stockholders. Our Qualification as a REIT Is Dependent on Compliance with U.S. Federal Income Tax Requirements . We believe we have been organized and operated in a manner so as to qualify for taxation as a REIT, and we intend to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our current and continuing qualification as a REIT depends on our ability to meet the various requirements imposed by the Code, which relate to organizational structure, distribution levels, diversity of stock ownership and certain restrictions with regard to owned assets and categories of income. If we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we are generally not subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income that is distributed to our stockholders. However, qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. In connection with certain transactions, we have received, and relied upon, advice of counsel as to the impact of such transactions on our qualification as a REIT. Our qualification as a REIT requires analysis of various facts and circumstances that may not be entirely within our control, and we cannot provide any assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") will agree with our analysis or the analysis of our tax counsel. In particular, the proper U.S. federal income tax treatment of right-to-use membership contracts and rental income from certain short-term stays at RV communities is uncertain and there is no assurance that the IRS will agree with our treatment of such contracts or rental income. If the IRS were to disagree with our analysis or our tax counsel's analysis of various facts and circumstances, our ability to qualify as a REIT could be adversely affected. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions might significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the U.S. federal income tax consequences of qualification as a REIT. If, with respect to any taxable year, we failed to maintain our qualification as a REIT (and if specified relief provisions under the Code were not applicable to such disqualification), we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. If we lost our REIT status, we could not deduct distributions to stockholders in computing our net taxable income at regular corporate rates and we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our net taxable incomes. If we had to pay U.S. federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to stockholders and pay indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to distribute money to stockholders. Although we currently intend to operate in a manner designed to allow us to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to revoke the REIT election. Furthermore, we own a direct interest in a subsidiary REIT, and in the past we have owned interests in other subsidiary REITs, each of which elected to be taxed as REITs under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code. Provided that each subsidiary REIT that we own qualifies as a REIT, our interest in such subsidiary REIT will be treated as a qualifying real estate asset for purposes of the REIT asset tests, and any dividend income or gains derived by us from such subsidiary REIT will generally be treated as income that qualifies for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. To qualify as a REIT, the subsidiary REIT must independently satisfy all of the REIT qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and certain relief provisions did not apply, it would be treated as a regular taxable corporation and its income would be subject to U.S. federal income tax. In addition, a failure of the subsidiary REIT to qualify as a REIT could have an adverse effect on our ability to comply with the REIT income and asset tests, and thus our ability to qualify as a REIT. We May Pay Some Taxes, Reducing Cash Available for Stockholders. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to some U.S. federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. Since January 1, 2001, certain of our corporate subsidiaries have elected to be treated as "taxable REIT subsidiaries" for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and are taxable as regular corporations and subject to certain limitations on intercompany transactions. If tax authorities determine that amounts paid by our taxable REIT subsidiaries to us are greater than what would be paid under similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments, and ongoing intercompany arrangements could have to change, resulting in higher ongoing tax payments. To the extent we are required to pay U.S. federal, foreign, state or local taxes or U.S. federal penalty taxes due to existing laws or changes to them, we will have less cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Dividends Payable by REITs Generally Do Not Qualify For the Reduced Tax Rates Available For Some Dividends, Which May Negatively Affect the Value of Our Shares. Income from "qualified dividends" payable to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates are generally subject to tax at preferential rates, currently at a maximum federal rate of 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs  22 Act, or the TCJA, however, U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates generally may deduct up to 20% of the ordinary dividends (e.g., dividends not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income) received from a REIT for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026. Although this deduction reduces the effective tax rate applicable to certain dividends paid by REITs (generally to 29.6% assuming the shareholder is subject to the 37% maximum rate), such tax rate is still higher than the tax rate applicable to corporate dividends that constitute qualified dividend income. Accordingly, investors who are individuals, trusts and estates may perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could materially and adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including the per share trading price of our common stock. Partnership Tax Audit Rules Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 changed the rules applicable to U.S. federal income tax audits of partnerships. Under the rules, effective for taxable years beginning in 2018, among other changes and subject to certain exceptions, any audit adjustment to items of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit of a partnership (and a partner's allocable share thereof) is determined, and taxes, interest, and penalties attributable thereto are assessed and collected, at the partnership level. Unless the partnership makes an election permitted under the new law or takes certain steps to require the partners to pay their tax on their allocable shares of the adjustment, it is possible that partnerships in which we directly or indirectly invest, including the Operating Partnership, would be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties as a result of an audit adjustment. We, as a direct or indirect partner of the Operating Partnership and other partnerships, could be required to bear the economic burden of those taxes, interest and penalties even though` the Company, as a REIT, may not otherwise have been required to pay additional corporate-level tax. The changes created by these rules are significant for collecting tax in partnership audits and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that these rules will not have a material adverse effect on us. We May be Subject to Adverse Legislative or Regulatory Tax Changes That Could Reduce the Market Price of Our Outstanding Common or Preferred Shares. The IRS, the United States Treasury Department and Congress frequently review U.S. federal income tax legislation, regulations and other guidance. We cannot predict whether, when or to what extent new U.S. federal tax laws, regulations, interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Any legislative action may prospectively or retroactively modify our tax treatment and, therefore, may adversely affect our taxation or our Company's shareholders. We urge you to consult with your tax advisor with respect to the status of legislative, regulatory or administrative developments and proposals and their potential effect on an investment in our stock. Although REITs generally receive certain tax advantages compared to entities taxed as "C" corporations, it is possible that future legislation would result in a REIT having fewer tax advantages, and it could become more advantageous for a company that invests in real estate to elect to be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a "C" corporation. Other Risk Factors Affecting Our Business Some Potential Losses Are Not Covered by Insurance. We carry comprehensive insurance coverage for losses resulting from property damage and environmental liability and business interruption claims on all of our Properties. In addition, we carry liability coverage for other activities not specifically related to property operations. These coverages include, but are not limited to, Directors & Officers liability, Employer Practices liability, Fiduciary liability and Cyber liability. We believe that the policy specifications and coverage limits of these policies should be adequate and appropriate. There are, however, certain types of losses, such as punitive damages, lease and other contract claims that generally are not insured. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of coverage limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a Property or the anticipated future revenue from a Property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the Property. Our current property and casualty insurance policies with respect to our MH and RV Properties, which we plan to renew, expire on April 1, 2021. We have a $100 million loss limit per occurrence with respect to our MH and RV all-risk property insurance program including named windstorms, which include, for example, hurricanes. This loss limit is subject to additional sub-limits as set forth in the policy form, including, among others, a $25 million aggregate loss limit for earthquake(s) in California. The deductibles for this policy primarily range from a $500,000 minimum to 5% per unit of insurance for most catastrophic events. For most catastrophic events, there is an additional one-time $500,000 aggregate deductible. We have separate insurance policies with respect to our marina Properties. Those casualty policies, which we plan to renew, expire on November 1, 2021, and the property insurance program, which expires on April 1, 2022, has a minimum deductible of $100,000. A deductible indicates our maximum exposure, subject to policy limits and sub-limits, in the event of a loss. 23 We Face Risks Relating to Cybersecurity Incidents. We rely extensively on internally and externally hosted computer systems to process transactions and manage our business. Critical components of our systems are dependent upon third-party providers and a significant portion of our business operations are conducted over the internet. These systems and websites are subject to system security risks, cybersecurity breaches, outages and other risks. These could include attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and computer systems, or steal confidential information, including credit card information from our customers, breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, including disruptions that result in our and our customers' loss of access to our information systems. Attacks can be both individual or highly organized attempts by very sophisticated hacking organizations. We employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats. While we continue to improve our cybersecurity and take measures to protect our business, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cybersecurity incident and that our financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an incident. Additionally, with the outbreak of COVID-19, certain of our corporate and regional staff have been regularly working remotely, further increasing our dependence on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business, as well as the risk of a loss event due to a cybersecurity incident. A cybersecurity incident could compromise the confidential information of our employees, customers and vendors to the extent such information exists on our systems or on the systems of third-party providers. Such an incident could result in potential liability, damage our reputation and disrupt and affect our business operations and result in lawsuits against us. Social Media Platforms Could Cause Us to Suffer Brand Damage or Information Leakage. Negative information about us, or our officers, employees, directors or Properties, even if untrue, could damage our reputation. In particular, information shared on social media platforms could cause us to suffer brand damage because social media platforms have increased the rapidity of the dissemination and greatly expanded the potential scope and scale of the impact of negative publicity. While employees are held to internal policies related to posting on public platforms including social media sites, employees or others might publicly share material that reflects negatively on our reputation or disclose non-public sensitive information relating to our business. The continuing evolution of social media will present us with new challenges and risks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Item 2. Properties General Our Properties provide common area facilities and attractive amenities that create an inviting community for our residents and guests. These common area facilities generally include a clubhouse, a swimming pool, laundry facilities, cable television and internet service. Many Properties also offer additional amenities such as golf courses, tennis, pickleball, shuffleboard and basketball courts, sauna/whirlpool spas, exercise rooms and various social activities. It is our responsibility to provide maintenance of the common area facilities and amenities and to ensure that our residents and guests comply with our community policies, including maintaining their homes and the surrounding area. Most of our residents own their homes, and therefore, also have a vested interest to care for their homes. We hold regular meetings with management personnel at our Properties to understand and address the needs of our residents and guests and to provide necessary trainings. Our Properties historically have had, and we believe they will continue to have, low turnover and high occupancy rates. Property Portfolio As of December 31, 2020, we owned or had an ownership interest in a portfolio of 422 Properties located throughout the United States and British Columbia containing 160,489 Sites. A total of 116 of the Properties were encumbered by debt (see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9. Borrowing Arrangements). The distribution of our Properties throughout the United States reflects our belief that geographic diversification helps to insulate the total portfolio from regional economic influences. We intend to target new acquisitions in or near markets where our Properties are located and will also consider acquisitions of properties outside such markets. Our two largest Properties as determined by property operating revenues, excluding deferrals, were Colony Cove, located in Ellenton, Florida, and ViewPoint RV & Golf Resort, located in Mesa, Arizona. Each accounted for approximately 2.0% of our total property operating revenues, excluding deferrals, for the year ended December 31, 2020. The following table sets forth certain information relating to our 416 wholly-owned Properties containing 156,890 Sites as of December 31, 2020, not including Properties owned through joint ventures. These Properties are categorized by major market. For RV and marina Properties, the total number of annual Sites represents Sites occupied by annual residents and are presented as 100% occupied. Annual Site occupancy percentage subtotals by market and grand total are presented on a weighted average basis. Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 Florida East Coast: Cheron Village Davie FL MH 30 202 202 100.0% Carriage Cove Daytona Beach FL MH 59 418 418 90.2% Coquina Crossing Elkton FL MH 316 26 596 596 95.5% Bulow Plantation Flagler Beach FL MH 323 90 276 276 100.0% Bulow RV Flagler Beach FL RV (f) 91 352 114 100.0% Carefree Cove Fort Lauderdale FL MH 20 164 164 93.3% Everglades Lakes Fort Lauderdale FL MH 103 611 611 96.9% Park City West Fort Lauderdale FL MH 60 363 363 98.1% Sunshine Holiday MH Fort Lauderdale FL MH 32 245 245 98.0% Sunshine Holiday RV Fort Lauderdale FL RV (f) 130 45 100.0% Lake Worth Village Lake Worth FL MH 117 823 823 94.4% 25 Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 Maralago Cay Lantana FL MH 102 602 602 98.3% Coral Cay Plantation Margate FL MH 121 818 818 99.1% Lakewood Village Melbourne FL MH 68 349 349 87.7% Miami Everglades Miami FL RV 34 2 303 67 100.0% Loggerhead Marinas (11 properties) Multiple FL Marina 87 2,343 1,698 100.0% Holiday Village, Ormond Beach Ormond Beach FL MH 43 301 301 90.0% Sunshine Holiday-Daytona North Ormond Beach FL RV 69 3 349 136 100.0% The Meadows, FL Palm Beach Gardens FL MH 55 378 378 98.1% Breezy Hill Pompano Beach FL RV 52 762 348 100.0% Highland Woods Travel Park Pompano Beach FL RV 15 148 19 100.0% Lighthouse Pointe at Daytona Beach Port Orange FL MH 64 433 433 86.1% Pickwick Village Port Orange FL MH 84 2 432 432 98.4% Rose Bay Port Orange FL RV 21 2 303 210 100.0% Palm Lake Riviera Beach FL MH 154 915 915 69.0% Indian Oaks Rockledge FL MH 38 208 208 99.5% Space Coast Rockledge FL RV 24 270 155 100.0% Countryside at Vero Beach Vero Beach FL MH 125 644 644 96.3% Heritage Plantation Vero Beach FL MH 64 437 437 89.5% Heron Cay Vero Beach FL MH 130 588 588 91.7% Holiday Village, Florida (g) Vero Beach FL MH 18 128 128 —% Sunshine Travel-Vero Beach Vero Beach FL RV 30 6 300 133 100.0% Vero Palm Estates Vero Beach FL MH 64 285 285 90.2% Village Green Vero Beach FL MH 178 12 782 782 90.2% Palm Beach Colony West Palm Beach FL MH 48 284 284 100.0% Central: Clover Leaf Farms Brooksville FL MH 227 17 845 845 91.7% Clover Leaf Forest Brooksville FL RV 30 277 150 100.0% Clerbrook Golf & RV Resort Clermont FL RV 288 1,255 468 100.0% Lake Magic Clermont FL RV 69 471 144 100.0% Orange Lake Clermont FL MH 38 242 242 99.6% Orlando Clermont FL RV 270 14 1,017 188 100.0% Haselton Village Eustis FL MH 52 291 291 100.0% Southern Palms RV Eustis FL RV 120 950 347 100.0% Lakeside Terrace Fruitland Park FL MH 39 241 241 99.2% Grand Island Resort Grand Island FL MH 35 362 362 77.6% Sherwood Forest - MHP Kissimmee FL MH 124 8 769 769 98.3% Sherwood Forest RV Kissimmee FL RV 107 6 513 136 100.0% Tropical Palms Kissimmee FL RV 59 4 566 198 100.0% Beacon Hill Colony Lakeland FL MH 31 201 201 99.0% Beacon Terrace Lakeland FL MH 61 297 297 100.0% Kings & Queens Lakeland FL MH 18 107 107 98.1% 26 Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 Lakeland Harbor Lakeland FL MH 65 504 504 100.0% Lakeland Junction Lakeland FL MH 23 193 193 100.0% Coachwood Colony Leesburg FL MH 29 201 201 94.0% Mid-Florida Lakes Leesburg  FL MH 290 1,225 1,225 89.5% Southernaire Mt. Dora FL MH 14 114 114 90.4% Foxwood Farms Ocala FL MH 56 365 365 89.3% Oak Bend Ocala FL MH 62 17 262 262 97.3% Villas at Spanish Oaks Ocala FL MH 69 454 454 88.5% Audubon Village - Florida Orlando FL MH 40 2 280 280 99.6% Hidden Valley Orlando FL MH 50 303 303 100.0% Starlight Ranch Orlando FL MH 130 783 783 95.4% Covington Estates Saint Cloud FL MH 59 241 241 98.8% Parkwood Communities Wildwood FL MH 121 694 694 98.4% Three Flags Wildwood FL RV 23 221 52 100.0% Winter Garden Winter Garden FL RV 27 350 151 100.0% Gulf Coast (Tampa/Naples): Riverside RV Resort Arcadia FL RV 196 8 499 209 100.0% Toby's RV Resort Arcadia FL RV 44 379 263 100.0% Sunshine Key Big Pine Key FL RV 54 409 51 100.0% Windmill Manor Bradenton FL MH 49 292 292 98.3% Winter Quarters Manatee Bradenton FL RV 42 415 224 100.0% Resort at Tranquility Lake (c) (d) Cape Coral FL RV 188 95 — — —% Glen Ellen Clearwater FL MH 12 106 106 92.5% Hillcrest FL Clearwater FL MH 25 276 276 96.0% Holiday Ranch Clearwater FL MH 12 150 150 94.7% Serendipity Clearwater FL MH 55 426 426 99.5% Shady Lane Oaks Clearwater FL MH 31 249 249 97.6% Shady Lane Village Clearwater FL MH 19 156 156 95.5% Silk Oak Lodge Clearwater FL MH 19 181 181 96.1% Crystal Isles Crystal River FL RV 38 1 260 86 100.0% Lake Haven Dunedin FL MH 48 379 379 98.4% Marker 1 Marina (c) Dunedin FL Marina 11 477 366 100.0% Colony Cove Ellenton FL MH 543 5 2,405 2,405 90.0% The Oaks at Colony Cove Ellenton FL MH (f) 93 93 31.2% Ridgewood Estates Ellenton FL MH 77 380 380 99.7% Fort Myers Beach Fort Myers FL RV 37 6 292 121 100.0% Gulf Air Fort Myers Beach FL RV 25 246 166 100.0% Holiday Travel Park Holiday FL RV 45 613 530 100.0% Barrington Hills Hudson FL RV 28 392 248 100.0% Down Yonder Largo FL MH 50 361 361 100.0% East Bay Oaks Largo FL MH 40 328 328 98.5% Eldorado Village Largo FL MH 25 227 227 99.6% 27 Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 Paradise Park - Largo Largo FL MH 15 108 108 100.0% Shangri-La Mobile Home Park Largo FL MH 14 160 160 93.1% Vacation Village Largo FL RV 29 293 163 100.0% Whispering Pines - Largo Largo FL MH 55 393 393 97.5% Fiesta Key Long Key FL RV 28 4 324 4 100.0% Winter Quarters Pasco Lutz FL RV 27 255 211 100.0% Country Place New Port Richey FL MH 82 515 515 99.6% Hacienda Village New Port Richey FL MH 66 505 505 99.2% Harbor View Mobile Manor New Port Richey FL MH 69 471 471 99.4% Bay Lake Estates Nokomis FL MH 34 228 228 97.8% Lake Village Nokomis FL MH 65 391 391 99.0% Royal Coachman Nokomis FL RV 111 2 546 463 100.0% Buccaneer Estates North Fort Myers FL MH 223 39 971 971 98.9% Island Vista Estates North Fort Myers FL MH 121 616 616 84.7% Lake Fairways North Fort Myers FL MH 259 896 896 99.8% Pine Lakes North Fort Myers FL MH 314 602 602 99.7% Pioneer Village North Fort Myers FL RV 90 733 390 100.0% Sunseekers RV Resort North Fort Myers FL RV 16 241 156 100.0% The Heritage North Fort Myers FL MH 214 6 453 453 98.9% Windmill Village - N. Ft. Myers North Fort Myers FL MH 69 491 491 94.1% Silver Dollar Golf & Trap Club Resort Odessa FL RV 836 459 382 100.0% Terra Ceia Palmetto FL RV 50 32 203 152 100.0% Arbors at Countrywood Plant City FL MH (f) 62 62 96.8% Lakes at Countrywood Plant City FL MH 122 10 424 424 97.6% Meadows at Countrywood Plant City FL MH 140 737 737 96.3% Oaks at Countrywood Plant City FL MH 44 168 168 93.5% Harbor Lakes Port Charlotte FL RV 80 528 352 100.0% Emerald Lake Punta Gorda FL MH 28 201 201 100.0% Gulf View Punta Gorda FL RV 78 206 97 100.0% Tropical Palms MH Punta Gorda FL MH 50 2 294 294 97.3% Kingswood Riverview FL MH 52 229 229 99.6% Winds of St. Armands North Sarasota FL MH 74 471 471 99.8% Winds of St. Armands South Sarasota FL MH 81 13 306 306 100.0% Topics RV Resort Spring Hill FL RV 35 230 177 100.0% Pine Island St. James City  FL RV 31 363 85 100.0% Carefree Village Tampa FL MH 58 398 398 98.0% Tarpon Glen Tarpon Springs FL MH 24 168 168 98.2% Featherock Valrico FL MH 84 521 521 99.8% Bay Indies Venice FL MH 210 1,309 1,309 99.2% Ramblers Rest RV Resort Venice FL RV 117 647 379 100.0% Peace River Wauchula FL RV 72 454 50 100.0% 28 Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 Crystal Lake Zephyrhills Zephyrhills FL MH 147 518 518 65.6% Forest Lake Estates MH Zephyrhills FL MH 191 89 892 892 99.9% Forest Lake Village RV Zephyrhills FL RV 42 274 178 100.0% Sixth Avenue Zephyrhills FL MH 14 140 140 77.1% Other Multiple FL MH 7 149 149 20.1% Total Florida Market 11,655 614 60,670 50,314 95.2% California Northern California: Monte del Lago Castroville CA MH 54 310 310 100.0% Colony Park Ceres CA MH 20 186 186 100.0% Russian River Cloverdale CA RV 41 135 4 100.0% Snowflower (g) Emigrant Gap CA RV 612 268 — —% Four Seasons Fresno CA MH 40 242 242 97.5% Yosemite Lakes (g) Groveland CA RV 403 30 299 — —% Tahoe Valley (e) (g) Lake Tahoe CA RV 86 413 — —% Sea Oaks Los Osos CA MH 18 1 125 125 99.2% Ponderosa Resort Lotus CA RV 22 170 13 100.0% Turtle Beach Manteca CA RV 39 79 21 100.0% Marina Dunes RV Resort (c) (g) Marina CA RV 6 96 — —% Coralwood (e) Modesto CA MH 22 194 194 100.0% Lake Minden Nicolaus CA RV 165 82 323 18 100.0% Lake of the Springs Oregon House CA RV 954 507 541 59 100.0% Concord Cascade Pacheco CA MH 31 283 283 100.0% San Francisco RV (g) Pacifica CA RV 12 122 — —% Quail Meadows Riverbank CA MH 20 146 146 100.0% California Hawaiian San Jose CA MH 50 418 418 100.0% Sunshadow San Jose CA MH 30 121 121 100.0% Village of the Four Seasons San Jose CA MH 30 271 271 100.0% Westwinds (4 Properties) (e) San Jose CA MH 88 723 723 100.0% Laguna Lake San Luis Obispo CA MH 100 300 300 100.0% Contempo Marin San Rafael CA MH 63 1 396 396 100.0% De Anza Santa Cruz Santa Cruz CA MH 30 198 198 99.5% Santa Cruz Ranch (g) Scotts Valley CA RV 7 106 — —% Royal Oaks Visalia CA MH 20 149 149 94.0% Southern California: Soledad Canyon Acton CA RV 273 1,251 19 100.0% Los Ranchos Apple Valley CA MH 30 389 389 98.5% Date Palm Country Club (e) Cathedral City CA MH 232 3 538 538 98.7% Palm Springs Oasis RV Resort Cathedral City CA RV (f) 140 17 100.0% 29 Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 Oakzanita Springs Descanso CA RV 145 5 146 25 100.0% Rancho Mesa El Cajon CA MH 20 158 158 100.0% Rancho Valley El Cajon CA MH 19 140 140 100.0% Royal Holiday Hemet CA MH 22 198 198 70.7% Idyllwild Idyllwild-Pine Cove CA RV 191 287 52 100.0% Pio Pico Jamul CA RV 176 10 512 86 100.0% Wilderness Lakes Menifee CA RV 73 529 44 100.0% Morgan Hill (g) Morgan Hill CA RV 69 6 339 — —% Pacific Dunes Ranch (g) Oceana CA RV 48 215 — —% San Benito Paicines CA RV 199 23 523 40 100.0% Palm Springs Palm Desert CA RV 35 401 12 100.0% Las Palmas Estates Rialto CA MH 18 136 136 100.0% Parque La Quinta Rialto CA MH 19 166 166 99.4% Rancho Oso Santa Barbara CA RV 310 40 187 16 100.0% Meadowbrook Santee CA MH 43 338 338 100.0% Lamplighter Village Spring Valley CA MH 32 270 270 100.0% Santiago Estates Sylmar CA MH 113 9 300 300 96.0% Total California Market 5,030 717 13,777 7,121 98.6% Arizona: Apache East Apache Junction AZ MH 17 123 123 100.0% Countryside RV Apache Junction AZ RV 53 560 304 100.0% Denali Park Apache Junction AZ MH 33 5 162 162 98.8% Dolce Vita (c) Apache Junction AZ MH 132 40 484 484 82.4% Golden Sun RV Apache Junction AZ RV 33 329 200 100.0% Meridian RV Resort (c) Apache Junction AZ RV 15 264 104 100.0% Valley Vista Benson AZ RV 6 145 6 100.0% Casita Verde Casa Grande AZ RV 14 192 84 100.0% Fiesta Grande Casa Grande AZ RV 77 767 528 100.0% Foothills West Casa Grande AZ RV 16 188 119 100.0% Sunshine Valley Chandler AZ MH 55 381 381 99.0% Verde Valley Cottonwood AZ RV 273 178 414 151 100.0% Casa del Sol East II Glendale AZ MH 29 239 239 96.7% Casa del Sol East III Glendale AZ MH 28 236 236 97.9% Palm Shadows Glendale AZ MH 33 293 293 90.8% Hacienda De Valencia Mesa AZ MH 51 364 364 98.9% Mesa Spirit Mesa AZ RV 90 1,600 766 100.0% Monte Vista Resort Mesa AZ RV 142 1,345 811 100.0% Seyenna Vistas Mesa AZ MH 60 4 407 407 97.8% The Highlands at Brentwood Mesa AZ MH 45 268 268 99.6% ViewPoint RV & Golf Resort Mesa AZ RV 332 2,414 1,870 100.0% 30 Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 Apollo Village Peoria AZ MH 29 3 238 238 95.4% Casa del Sol West Peoria AZ MH 31 245 245 95.5% Carefree Manor Phoenix AZ MH 16 130 130 92.3% Central Park Phoenix AZ MH 37 293 293 95.2% Desert Skies Phoenix AZ MH 24 166 166 97.6% Sunrise Heights Phoenix AZ MH 28 199 199 96.5% Whispering Palms Phoenix AZ MH 15 116 116 94.0% Desert Vista (g) Salome AZ RV 10 125 — —% Sedona Shadows Sedona AZ MH 48 2 198 198 99.0% Venture In Show Low AZ RV 26 389 274 100.0% Paradise Sun City AZ RV 80 950 759 100.0% The Meadows AZ Tempe AZ MH 60 390 390 99.2% Fairview Manor Tucson AZ MH 28 235 235 97.4% Voyager Expansion (c) (d) Tucson AZ MH 64 41 — — —% Westpark Wickenburg AZ MH 48 273 273 82.1% Araby Acres Yuma AZ RV 25 3 337 264 100.0% Cactus Gardens Yuma AZ RV 43 430 231 100.0% Capri Yuma AZ RV 20 303 162 100.0% Desert Paradise Yuma AZ RV 26 260 93 100.0% Foothill Village Yuma AZ RV 18 180 31 100.0% Mesa Verde RV Yuma AZ RV 28 345 265 100.0% Suni Sands Yuma AZ RV 34 336 153 100.0% Total Arizona Market 2,272 276 17,313 12,615 97.9% Colorado: Hillcrest Village CO Aurora CO MH 72 602 602 99.5% Cimarron Village Broomfield CO MH 50 327 327 100.0% Holiday Village CO Colorado Springs CO MH 38 240 240 99.6% Bear Creek Village Denver CO MH 12 121 121 97.5% Holiday Hills Village Denver CO MH 99 736 736 98.4% Golden Terrace Golden CO MH 32 263 263 100.0% Golden Terrace South Golden CO MH 15 80 80 100.0% Golden Terrace South RV (g) Golden CO RV (f) 80 — —% Golden Terrace West Golden CO MH 39 311 311 100.0% Pueblo Grande Pueblo CO MH 33 251 251 80.9% Woodland Hills Thornton CO MH 55 434 434 99.8% Total Colorado Market 445 — 3,445 3,365 98.0% Northeast: Stonegate Manor North Windham CT MH 114 372 372 93.3% Waterford Estates Bear DE MH 159 2 731 731 99.7% 31 Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 McNicol Place Lewes DE MH 25 93 93 100.0% Whispering Pines Lewes DE MH 67 2 393 393 99.7% Mariner's Cove Millsboro DE MH 101 374 374 97.1% Sweetbriar Millsboro DE MH 38 146 146 93.2% Aspen Meadows Rehoboth Beach DE MH 46 200 200 100.0% Camelot Meadows Rehoboth Beach DE MH 61 301 301 100.0% Gateway to Cape Cod Rochester MA RV 80 25 194 66 100.0% Hillcrest MA Rockland MA MH 19 79 79 93.7% The Glen Rockland MA MH 24 36 36 100.0% Old Chatham South Dennis MA RV 47 312 249 100.0% Sturbridge Sturbridge MA RV 223 125 155 70 100.0% Fernwood Capitol Heights MD MH 40 6 329 329 98.5% Williams Estates/Peppermint Woods Middle River MD MH 121 803 803 100.0% Mt. Desert Narrows Bar Harbor ME RV 90 12 206 7 100.0% Patten Pond Ellsworth ME RV 81 60 137 13 100.0% Pinehirst Old Orchard Beach ME RV 58 550 464 100.0% Narrows Too Trenton ME RV 42 8 207 8 100.0% Moody Beach Wells ME RV 48 274 86 100.0% Sandy Beach Contoocook NH RV 40 190 95 100.0% Pine Acres Raymond NH RV 100 421 222 100.0% Tuxbury Resort South Hampton NH RV 193 100 305 222 100.0% King Nummy Cape May Court House NJ RV 83 313 262 100.0% Acorn Campground (c) Green Creek NJ RV 160 43 323 226 100.0% Mays Landing Resort Mays Landing NJ RV 18 168 62 100.0% Echo Farms Ocean View NJ RV 31 245 197 100.0% Lake and Shore Ocean View NJ RV 162 401 270 100.0% Chestnut Lake Port Republic NJ RV 32 185 41 100.0% Sea Pines Swainton NJ RV 75 32 549 319 100.0% Pine Ridge at Crestwood Whiting NJ MH 188 1,035 1,035 89.3% Rondout Valley Accord NY RV 184 94 398 78 100.0% Alpine Lake RV Resort Corinth NY RV 200 54 500 342 100.0% Lake George Escape Lake George NY RV 178 576 79 100.0% The Woodlands Lockport NY MH 225 76 1,237 1,237 93.8% Greenwood Village Manorville NY MH 79 512 512 99.6% Brennan Beach Pulaski NY RV 201 1,377 1,199 100.0% Lake George Schroon Valley Warrensburg NY RV 151 151 85 100.0% Greenbriar Village Bath PA MH 63 319 319 95.3% Sun Valley Bowmansville PA RV 86 3 265 190 100.0% Green Acres Breinigsville PA MH 149 595 595 93.6% Gettysburg Farm Dover PA RV 124 62 265 84 100.0% Timothy Lake North East Stroudsburg PA RV 93 323 82 100.0% 32 Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 Timothy Lake South East Stroudsburg PA RV 65 327 130 100.0% Drummer Boy Gettysburg PA RV 89 465 220 100.0% Round Top Gettysburg PA RV 52 391 195 100.0% Circle M Lancaster PA RV 103 13 380 85 100.0% Hershey Lebanon PA RV 196 20 297 58 100.0% Robin Hill Lenhartsville PA RV 44 4 270 121 100.0% PA Dutch County Manheim PA RV 102 60 269 99 100.0% Spring Gulch New Holland PA RV 114 27 420 150 100.0% Lil Wolf Orefield PA MH 56 269 269 96.7% Scotrun Scotrun PA RV 63 6 178 115 100.0% Appalachian RV Shartlesville PA RV 86 30 358 197 100.0% Mountain View - PA Walnutport PA MH 45 1 187 187 92.0% Timber Creek Westerly RI RV 108 364 361 100.0% Total Northeast Market 5,422 865 20,720 14,760 97.8% Southeast: Hidden Cove Arley AL RV 99 34 163 73 100.0% Diamond Caverns Park City KY RV 714 218 220 31 100.0% Forest Lake Advance NC RV 306 34 305 163 100.0% Scenic Asheville NC MH 28 2 194 194 99.0% Waterway RV Cedar Point NC RV 27 336 335 100.0% Twin Lakes Chocowinity NC RV 132 11 419 368 100.0% Topsail Sound RV (c) Holly Ridge NC RV 34 12 230 205 100.0% Green Mountain Lenoir NC RV 1,077 3 447 155 100.0% Lake Gaston Littleton NC RV 69 235 204 100.0% Lake Myers RV Mocksville NC RV 74 425 279 100.0% Bogue Pines Newport NC MH 50 150 150 88.0% Goose Creek Newport NC RV 92 735 692 100.0% Whispering Pines - NC Newport NC RV 34 278 187 100.0% Harbor Point (c) Sneads Ferry NC RV 46 203 184 100.0% White Oak Shores Stella NC RV 220 50 511 426 100.0% Carolina Landing Fair Play SC RV 73 30 192 58 100.0% Inlet Oaks Village Murrells Inlet SC MH 35 172 172 98.8% The Oaks Yemassee SC RV 10 93 21 100.0% Natchez Trace Hohenwald TN RV 672 340 531 225 100.0% Cherokee Landing Saulsbury TN RV 254 124 339 4 100.0% Meadows of Chantilly Chantilly VA MH 82 499 499 100.0% Harbor View Colonial Beach VA RV 69 146 69 100.0% Lynchburg Gladys VA RV 170 59 222 68 100.0% Chesapeake Bay Gloucester VA RV 282 80 392 144 100.0% Bayport Development (c) (d) Jamaica VA RV 541 523 — — —% 33 Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 Virginia Landing Quinby VA RV 863 233 5 100.0% Grey's Point Camp Topping VA RV 125 16 791 536 100.0% Bethpage Camp Resort Urbanna VA RV 271 104 1,034 601 100.0% Williamsburg Williamsburg VA RV 65 10 211 79 100.0% Regency Lakes Winchester VA MH 165 523 523 99.6% Total Southeast Market 6,679 1,650 10,229 6,650 99.6% Midwest Market: O'Connell's Yogi Bear RV Resort Amboy IL RV 286 89 725 426 100.0% Pheasant Lake Estates Beecher IL MH 160 112 613 613 96.4% Pine Country Belvidere IL RV 131 10 185 150 100.0% Willow Lake Estates Elgin IL MH 111 616 616 89.1% Golf Vista Estates Monee IL MH 144 497 497 80.7% Indian Lakes Batesville IN RV 545 104 1,058 612 100.0% Horseshoe Lakes Clinton IN RV 289 66 123 99 100.0% Twin Mills RV Howe IN RV 137 24 501 221 100.0% Lakeside RV New Carlisle IN RV 13 89 89 100.0% Bear Cave Buchanan MI RV 25 10 136 55 100.0% St Claire Saint Claire MI RV 210 100 229 138 100.0% Cedar Knolls Apple Valley MN MH 93 457 457 96.1% Cimarron Park Lake Elmo MN MH 230 46 505 505 90.5% Rockford Riverview Estates Rockford MN MH 88 428 428 95.8% Rosemount Woods Rosemount MN MH 50 12 182 182 98.4% Buena Vista Fargo ND MH 76 399 399 74.9% Meadow Park Fargo ND MH 17 116 116 71.6% Kenisee Lake Jefferson OH RV 143 50 119 76 100.0% Wilmington Wilmington OH RV 109 41 169 118 100.0% Rainbow Lake Manor Bristol WI MH 99 14 270 270 96.3% Fremont Jellystone Park Campground Fremont WI RV 98 5 325 125 100.0% Yukon Trails Lyndon Station WI RV 150 30 214 136 100.0% Blackhawk Camping Resort Milton WI RV 214 24 490 341 100.0% Lakeland Milton WI RV 107 5 682 426 100.0% Westwood Estates Pleasant Prairie WI MH 95 344 344 93.9% Plymouth Rock Plymouth WI RV 133 40 610 419 100.0% Tranquil Timbers Sturgeon Bay WI RV 125 270 193 100.0% Lake of the Woods RV Wautoma WI RV 117 303 167 100.0% Neshonoc Lakeside West Salem WI RV 48 284 189 100.0% Arrowhead Resort Wisconsin Dells WI RV 166 40 377 200 100.0% Total Midwest Market 4,209 822 11,316 8,607 94.9% 34 Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 Nevada, Utah and Idaho: Coach Royale Boise ID MH 12 91 91 100.0% Maple Grove Boise ID MH 38 271 271 90.4% Shenandoah Estates Boise ID MH 24 153 153 100.0% West Meadow Estates Boise ID MH 29 178 178 100.0% Mountain View - NV Henderson NV MH 72 354 354 100.0% Bonanza Village Las Vegas NV MH 43 353 353 55.5% Boulder Cascade Las Vegas NV MH 39 299 299 85.6% Cabana Las Vegas NV MH 37 263 263 99.2% Flamingo West Las Vegas NV MH 37 258 258 100.0% Las Vegas Las Vegas NV RV 11 217 21 100.0% Villa Borega Las Vegas NV MH 40 293 293 78.5% Westwood Village Farr West UT MH 46 314 314 100.0% St George (g) Hurricane UT RV 26 4 123 — —% All Seasons Salt Lake City UT MH 19 121 121 100.0% Total Nevada, Utah and Idaho 473 4 3,288 2,969 90.2% Northwest: Cultus Lake (Canada) (e) Lindell Beach BC RV 15 178 47 100.0% Bend Bend OR RV 289 116 351 47 100.0% Shadowbrook Clackamas OR MH 21 156 156 100.0% Pacific City Cloverdale OR RV 105 50 307 29 100.0% Falcon Wood Village Eugene OR MH 23 183 183 98.9% Portland Fairview Fairview OR RV 30 407 245 100.0% Quail Hollow (e) Fairview OR MH 21 137 137 100.0% South Jetty Florence OR RV 57 5 204 7 100.0% Seaside Seaside OR RV 80 7 251 45 100.0% Whalers Rest South Beach OR RV 39 5 170 22 100.0% Mt. Hood Village Welches OR RV 115 626 189 100.0% Birch Bay Blaine WA RV 31 7 246 13 100.0% Mount Vernon Bow WA RV 311 251 25 100.0% Chehalis Chehalis WA RV 309 360 22 100.0% Grandy Creek (g) Concrete WA RV 63 179 — —% Tall Chief (g) Fall City WA RV 71 180 — —% Kloshe Illahee Federal Way WA MH 50 258 258 100.0% La Conner (e) La Conner WA RV 106 319 36 100.0% Leavenworth Leavenworth WA RV 255 30 266 17 100.0% Thunderbird Resort Monroe WA RV 45 6 136 18 100.0% Little Diamond Newport WA RV 360 30 520 2 100.0% Oceana Ocean City WA RV 16 7 84 6 100.0% Crescent Bar Quincy WA RV 14 115 17 100.0% 35 Property City State Property Type Acres  (a) Developable Acres  (b) Total Number of Sites as of 12/31/20 Total Number of Annual Sites as of 12/31/20 Annual Site Occupancy as of 12/31/20 Long Beach Seaview WA RV 17 10 144 10 100.0% Paradise RV Silver Creek WA RV 60 214 4 100.0% Total Northwest 2,503 273 6,242 1,535 99.9% Texas: Alamo Palms Alamo TX RV 58 643 305 100.0% Bay Landing Bridgeport TX RV 443 235 293 63 100.0% Colorado River Columbus TX RV 218 51 132 25 100.0% Victoria Palms Donna TX RV 117 1,122 488 100.0% Lake Texoma (e) Gordonville TX RV 201 120 301 83 100.0% Lakewood Harlingen TX RV 30 301 119 100.0% Paradise Park Harlingen TX RV 60 563 267 100.0% Sunshine RV Resort Harlingen TX RV 84 1,027 369 100.0% Tropic Winds Harlingen TX RV 112 65 531 209 100.0% Medina Lake Lakehills TX RV 208 50 387 72 100.0% Paradise South Mercedes TX RV 49 493 194 100.0% Lake Tawakoni (e) Point TX RV 324 11 293 68 100.0% Fun N Sun RV San Benito TX RV 135 40 1,435 633 100.0% Country Sunshine Weslaco TX RV 37 390 158 100.0% Leisure World (c) Weslaco TX RV 38 333 202 100.0% Southern Comfort Weslaco TX RV 40 403 321 100.0% Trails End RV (c) Weslaco TX RV 43 362 271 100.0% Lake Whitney Whitney TX RV 403 158 261 33 100.0% Lake Conroe Willis TX RV 129 7 620 274 100.0% Total Texas 2,729 737 9,890 4,154 100.0% Grand Total All Markets 41,417 5,958 156,890 112,090 96.5% ____________________________________ (a) Acres are approximate. For certain Properties, the acres were estimated based on 10 Sites per acre. (b) Acres are approximate. There can be no assurance that developable acres will be developed. Development is contingent on many factors including, but not limited to, cost, ability to subdivide, accessibility, infrastructure needs, zoning, entitlement and topography. (c) Property acquired in 2020. (d) Development asset acquired in 2020. It is not included in the property count as there are no sites and the property is not operational. (e) Land has been leased to us under a non-cancelable operating lease, including one Loggerhead Marina Property (See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 3. Leases). (f) Acres for this community have been included in the acres of the adjacent community listed directly above this Property. (g) Property did not have annual Sites for 2020. 36 Item 3. Legal Proceedings The description of legal proceedings is incorporated herein by reference from Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16. Commitment and Contingencies in this Form 10-K. 