Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations  This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes included in this report.  Overview  Our strategy and primary business objective is to be a profitable IP-rich fabless semiconductor company offering ICs and related software and IP that deliver unparalleled memory bandwidth and access rate performance for high-performance data processing in cloud networking, communications, security appliances, video, test and monitoring, and data center systems.    Our solutions deliver time-to-market, performance, power, area and economic benefits for system original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs. Our primary product line is marketed under the Accelerator Engine name and comprises our Bandwidth Engine and Programmable HyperSpeed Engine IC products, which integrate our proprietary, 1T-SRAM high-density embedded memory and a highly-efficient serial interface protocol resulting in a monolithic memory IC solution optimized for memory bandwidth and transaction access performance.   Our second-generation Bandwidth Engine, or Bandwidth Engine 2, products are expected to be our primary revenue source through at least 2021, and we expect these products to continue to generate significant revenue thereafter.  As we are not developing new IC products, from a product development perspective, we continue to leverage our current technologies and core competencies to expand our product offerings without incurring significant additional R&D expenses.    Recently, we announced our new Software Accelerator product line consisting of software and IP available for license. This new product line will include multiple function accelerator platform products, which target specific application functions and will use a common software interface to allow performance scalability over multiple hardware environments. These function accelerator platform products are hardware agnostic and operate with or without one of our Accelerator Engine ICs. This software-defined, hardware-accelerated platform architecture utilizes an internally developed graphical memory engine architecture to provide flexible data classification and analysis capability. We believe the technology will generate new opportunities that require less up-front architectural changes by system designers and provide a scalable performance roadmap of options using our Accelerator Engine ICs. We expect our initial software accelerator products to be available for license in the first half of 2020.  Despite our limited new IC product development efforts, we believe our current hardware and software/firmware product portfolio positions us for future growth and profitability.  We will continue to seek third-party funding for new product development efforts .  We incurred net losses of approximately $2.6 million and $11.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $238 million as of December 31, 2019.   These and prior year losses have resulted in significant negative cash flows for almost a decade and have necessitated that we raise substantial amounts of additional capital during this period.  To date, we have primarily financed our operations through multiple offerings of common stock to investors and affiliates, as well as asset sale transactions and one offering of convertible notes.   We may continue to incur operating losses and will need to increase revenues substantially beyond levels that we have attained in the past in order to generate sustainable operating profit and sufficient cash flows to continue doing business without raising additional capital from time to time.       Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates  Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  27      We have identified the accounting policies below  as some of the more critical to our business and the understanding of our results of operations. These policies may involve estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Although we believe our judg ments and estimates are appropriate, actual future results may differ from our estimates, and if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail, the results could be materially different from our reported results.  Revenue Recognition  We adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers and all its related amendments (“ASC 606”), on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018. The comparative information for 2017 has not been recast and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for that period. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report for an additional description of our recognition of the cumulative effect upon the adoption of ASC 606.   We generate revenue primarily from sales of IC products and licensing of our intellectual property. Revenues are recognized when control is transferred to customers in amounts that reflect the consideration we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods. Revenue recognition is evaluated through the following five steps: (i) identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer; (ii) identification of the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determination of the transaction price; (iv) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) recognition of revenue when or as a performance obligation is satisfied.        IC products  Revenue is recognized when performance obligations under the terms of a contract with a customer are satisfied.   The majority of our contracts have a single performance obligation to transfer products. Accordingly, we recognize revenue when title and risk of loss have been transferred to the customer, generally at the time of shipment of products. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring products and is generally based upon a negotiated, formula, list or fixed price. We sell our products both directly to customers and through distributors generally under agreements with payment terms typically 60 days or less.     We may record an estimated allowance, at the time of shipment, for future returns and other charges against revenue consistent with the terms of sale.     Royalty and other   Our licensing contracts typically provide for royalties based on the licensee’s use of our memory technology in its currently shipping commercial products. With the adoption of ASC 606 in January 2018, we estimate our royalty revenue in the calendar quarter in which the licensee uses the licensed technology.  Payments are received in the subsequent quarter  Fair Value Measurements of Financial Instruments  We measure the fair value of financial instruments using a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels, as follows:  Level 1—Inputs used to measure fair value are unadjusted quoted prices that are available in active markets for the identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date.  Level 2—Pricing is provided by third party sources of market information obtained from investment advisors rather than models. We do not adjust for or apply any additional assumptions or estimates to the pricing information we receive from advisors. Our Level 2 securities include cash equivalents and available-for-sale securities, which consisted primarily of corporate debt, and government agency and municipal debt securities from issuers with high quality credit ratings. Our investment advisors obtain pricing data from independent sources, such as Standard & Poor’s, Bloomberg and Interactive Data Corporation, and rely on comparable pricing of other securities because the Level 2 securities we hold are not actively traded and have fewer   28      observable transactions. We  consider this the most reliable information available for the valuation of the securities.  Level 3—Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and reflect the use of significant management judgment are used to measure fair value. These values are generally determined using pricing models for which the assumptions utilize management’s estimates of market participant assumptions. The determination of fair value for Level 3 investments and other financial instruments involves the most management judgment and subjectivity.  Valuation of long-lived Assets  We evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment at least annually, or more frequently when a triggering event is deemed to have occurred. This assessment is subjective in nature and requires significant management judgment to forecast future operating results, projected cash flows and current period market capitalization levels. If our estimates and assumptions change in the future, it could result in a material write-down of long-lived assets. We amortize our finite-lived intangible assets, such as developed technology and patent license, on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of three to seven years. We recognize an impairment charge as the difference between the net book value of such assets and the fair value of the assets on the measurement date.  Goodwill  We determine the amount of potential goodwill impairment by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount. To the extent the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a goodwill impairment charge is recognized.  We have determined that we have a single reporting unit for purposes of performing our goodwill impairment test. As we use the market approach to determine the step one fair value, the price of our common stock is an important component of the fair value calculation. We review goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform an impairment test.   We performed our annual test for goodwill impairment as of September 1, 2019, and, due to a decrease in the price per share of our common stock, the test results indicated the goodwill carrying value was greater than its implied fair value. Further, the Company concluded a triggering event had occurred due to the sustained decrease in the price per share of its common stock and related reduced market capitalization as of September 30, 2019 and performed an additional test for impairment of its goodwill asset resulting in further indication that the goodwill carrying value was still greater than its implied fair value. As a result of both of these tests, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of $0.4 million during the third quarter of 2019.  As a result of these charges, the Company’s goodwill balance was reduced to zero as of September 30, 2019.  Deferred tax valuation allowance  When we prepare our consolidated financial statements, we estimate our income tax liability for each of the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our actual current tax exposure and to assess temporary differences that result from differing treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets, which we show on our consolidated balance sheet under the category of other assets. The net deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based upon weighted available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We must make significant judgments to determine our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance to be recorded against our net deferred tax asset. We believe that utilization of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, which comprise the majority of our deferred tax assets, may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to the ownership change limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report for an additional description of these limitations.  Stock-based compensation  We recognize stock-based compensation for equity awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, usually the vesting period, based on the grant-date fair value. We estimate the value of employee stock   29      options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model. The determination of fair value of share-based pa yment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by our stock price, as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the expected stock price  volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. The expected term of options granted is derived from historical data on employee exercises and post-vesting employment termination behavior. The expe cted volatility is based on the historical volatility of our stock price.  Results of Operations  Net Revenue                 Years Ended December 31,           Year-Over-Year Change                 2019           2018           2017           2018 to 2019           2017 to 2018                 (dollar amounts in thousands)         Product       $   9,377           $   15,053           $   7,833           $   (5,676   )           (38   )%       $   7,220               92   %     Percentage of total net revenue           93   %           91   %           89   %                                                                       Product revenue decreased in 2019 compared with 2018 due to reduced shipments of our Bandwidth engine products.  Specifically, we completed final shipments of our Bandwidth Engine 1 product in the first half of 2019 and experienced reduced shipments to some of our large Bandwidth Engine 2 IC customers.  The increase from 2017 to 2018 was due to increased volume of shipments for our ICs, mainly Bandwidth Engine products, as additional customer design wins commenced production.                  Years Ended December 31,           Year-Over-Year Change                 2019           2018           2017           2018 to 2019           2017 to 2018                 (dollar amounts in thousands)         Royalty and other       $   709           $   1,547           $   1,009           $   (838   )           (54   )%       $   538               53   %     Percentage of total net revenue           7   %           9   %           11   %                                                                       Royalty and other revenue primarily comprises revenue generated from licensing agreements. The decrease from 2018 to 2019 was primarily due to a reduction in revenue from a one-time license and service agreement entered into in 2017 for our analog technology.  The increase from 2017 to 2018 was primarily due to a one-time license and service agreement entered into in 2017 for our analog technology, partially offset by a decline in royalty revenue.   Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit                 Years Ended December 31,           Year-Over-Year Change                 2019           2018           2017           2018 to 2019           2017 to 2018                 (dollar amounts in thousands)         Cost of net revenue       $   3,931           $   6,346           $   4,694           $   (2,415   )           (38   )%       $   1,652               35   %     Percentage of total net revenue           39   %           38   %           53   %                                                                                   Years Ended December 31,           Year-Over-Year Change                 2019           2018           2017           2018 to 2019           2017 to 2018                 (dollar amounts in thousands)         Gross profit       $   6,155           $   10,254           $   4,148           $   (4,099   )           (40   )%       $   6,106               147   %     Percentage of total net revenue           61   %           62   %           47   %                                                                       In each of 2019, 2018 and 2017, cost of net revenue primarily consisted of direct and indirect costs related to the sale of IC products.  Cost of net revenue decreased in 2019 from 2018 due to decreased product shipments.  The increase in 2018 from 2017 was primarily due to the increase in material and production costs related to our increased IC shipments, partially offset by inventory write-downs recorded in 2017.    30      Gross profit  de creased from 201 8  to 201 9  primarily due to the  de crease in IC shipments  and  the decrease in our royalty  and other  revenue, which  generally   has no associated costs.    Gross profit increased from 2017 to 2018 primarily due to the increase in IC shipments  and improved manufacturing efficiencies and reduced material  purchase prices  as well as the increase in royalty and other revenues ,  which gene rally ha ve  little to no associated cost.   Research and Development                 Years Ended December 31,           Year-Over-Year Change                 2019           2018           2017           2018 to 2019           2017 to 2018                 (dollar amounts in thousands)         Research and development       $   4,182           $   4,129           $   8,158           $   53               1   %       $   (4,029   )           (49   )%     Percentage of total net revenue           41   %           25   %           92   %                                                                       Our research and development expenses include costs related to the development of our IC and software acceleration products. We expense research and development costs as they are incurred.  Research and development expenses increased slightly in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily due to increased personnel costs and higher development expenses for our Bandwidth Engine 3 and LineSpeed products in the first half of the year, which were offset by a decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses.  The decrease in 2018 compared with 2017 was primarily due to our restructuring activities in 2017 that resulted in a significant decrease in headcount and related salaries and expenses and lower computer-aided software license fees, backend, depreciation and equipment rental charges.  Research and development expenses included stock-based compensation expenses of $0.1 million, $0.3 million and $0.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We expect that total research and development expenses will remain consistent in 2020.  Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A)                 Years Ended December 31,           Year-Over-Year Change                 2019           2018           2017           2018 to 2019           2017 to 2018                 (dollar amounts in thousands)         SG&A       $   4,016           $   4,095           $   4,702           $   (79   )           (2   )%       $   (607   )           (13   )%     Percentage of total net revenue           40   %           25   %           53   %                                                                       Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel and related overhead costs for sales, marketing, finance, human resources and general management.  Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased slightly for 2019, compared with the prior year, primarily as a result of reduced legal, sales commissions and stock based compensation expenses, offset by increased consulting fees and advertising and promotion.  Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased for 2018, compared with the prior year, primarily as a result of our 2017 restructuring activities, which resulted in a decrease in related salaries and expenses, as well as a decrease in franchise taxes.  Selling, general and administrative expenses included stock-based compensation expense of $0.2 million, $0.3 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We expect total selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in 2020 due to increased sales and marketing efforts, as we expand our sales channels.  31      Impairment of Goodwill                  Years Ended December 31,           Year-Over-Year Change                 2019           2018           2017           2018 to 2019           2017 to 2018                 (dollar amounts in thousands)         Impairment of goodwill       $   420           $   12,856           $   —           $   (12,436   )           (97   )%       $   12,856               —         Percentage of total net revenue           4   %           77   %           0   %                                                                       In 2019 and 2018, we recorded goodwill impairment charges. See Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Report for additional disclosure.  Interest expense                  Years Ended December 31,           Year-Over-Year Change                 2019           2018           2017           2018 to 2019           2017 to 2018                 (dollar amounts in thousands)         Interest expense       $   220           $   582           $   927           $   (362   )           (62   )%       $   (345   )           (37   )%     Percentage of total net revenue           2   %           4   %           10   %                                                                       Interest expense is incurred on our senior secured convertible notes.  We have paid all accumulated interest since issuance of the convertible notes in March 2016 in-kind through the issuance of new senior-secured convertible notes subject to the same terms and conditions. See Note 11 in the consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this Report for additional disclosure.  Liquidity and Capital Resources  As of December 31, 2019, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaling $6.4 million compared with cash and cash equivalents of $7.1 million as of December 31, 2018.  We believe that cash generated from our liquidity sources will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months.  In 2019, we used $0.7 million in cash from operating activities, which primarily resulted from the net loss of $2.6 million, adjusted for non-cash charges and gains, which included goodwill impairment of $0.4 million, stock-based compensation expenses of $0.3 million, depreciation and amortization expenses of $0.2 million, accrued interest of $0.2 million, and changes to operating assets and liabilities of approximately $0.8 million. The changes in assets and liabilities primarily related to the timing of the collection of receivables from customers and payments to vendors, including decreases in inventory.  In 2018, we generated $0.3 million in cash from operating activities, which primarily resulted from the net loss of $11.4 million, adjusted for non-cash charges and gains, which included goodwill impairment of $12.9 million, stock-based compensation expenses of $0.7 million, depreciation and amortization expenses of $0.7 million, accrued interest of $0.6 million, and changes to operating assets and liabilities of $3.1 million. The changes in assets and liabilities primarily related to the timing of the collection of receivables from customers and payments to vendors, including purchases of and increases in inventory.  In 2017, we used $7.6 million in operating activities, which primarily resulted from the net loss of $10.7 million, adjusted for non-cash charges and gains, which included stock-based compensation expenses of $0.7 million, depreciation and amortization expenses of $0.9 million, accrued interest of $0.9 million, and changes to operating assets and liabilities of $0.6 million. The changes in assets and liabilities primarily related to the timing of the collection of receivables from customers and payments to vendors, including purchases of and increases in inventory.  The majority of net cash used in investing activities in 2019 was due to the purchase of short-term investments of $1.6 million, which did not affect our liquidity, partially offset by proceeds from the maturities of short-term investments of $1.3 million.  The majority of net cash provided by investing activities in 2017 was due to the proceeds from the maturities of marketable securities of $2.6 million, partially offset by the purchase of marketable   32      securities of $1.6 million  which did not affect our liquidity .   The remaining  investing activities  in 201 9 , 201 8  and 201 7   consisted of $0.1 million, $ 0. 1  million and $0. 3  million, respectively, expended for purchases of fixed assets.  Our financing activities in 2018 primarily consisted of $10.4 million in net proceeds received from the sale of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock in an equity offering completed in October 2018, which were used to repay $7.4 million of our convertible debt. Our financing activities in 2017 primarily consisted of $2.0 million in net proceeds received from the sale of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock in an equity offering completed in July 2017.   Our future liquidity and capital requirements are expected to vary from quarter to quarter, depending on numerous factors, including:          •   level of revenue;          •   cost, timing and success of technology development efforts;          •   inventory levels, timing of product shipments and length of billing and collection cycles;          •   fabrication costs, including mask costs, of our ICs, currently under development;          •   variations in manufacturing yields, materials costs and other manufacturing risks;          •   costs of acquiring other businesses and integrating the acquired operations;          •   profitability of our business; and          •   whether interest payments on the Notes are paid in cash or, at our election, in kind through the issuance of new Notes with identical terms for the accrued interest.  Working Capital  Our primary need for liquidity is to fund working capital requirements of our businesses, capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.  We expect our cash expenditures to exceed receipts in 2020, as our revenues will not be sufficient to offset our working capital requirements. We  incurred net losses of approximately $2.6 million and $11.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $238 million as of December 31, 2019.   These and prior year losses have resulted in significant negative cash flows for more than a decade and have required us to raise substantial amounts of additional capital during this period.  To date, we have primarily financed our operations through multiple offerings of common stock to investors and affiliates, as well as asset sale transactions. In March 2016, we entered into a 10% Senior Secured Convertible Note Purchase Agreement with the purchasers of $8.0 million principal amount of 10% Senior Secured Convertible Notes due August 15, 2018 (the Notes), at par, in a private placement transaction.   Accrued interest was payable semi-annually in cash or in-kind through the issuance of identical new Notes, or with a combination of the two, at the Company’s option. Through February 15, 2020, the Company had made the interest payments in-kind through the issuance of additional notes totaling approximately $2.3 million.  In October 2018, we used proceeds received in an equity offering to repay $7.4 million of the Notes.  As of December 31, 2019, the outstanding balance of the Notes approximated $2.9 million.  Additionally, pursuant to amendments to the Notes and related loan documents effective in 2018, the interest rate was reduced to 8%, the maturity date of the Notes was extended to August 15, 2023, the optional conversion price has been reduced from $170.00 of Note principal per share of common stock to $11.434 of Note principal per share of common stock, and the redemption purchase price in the event of certain transactions, such as an acquisition, has been reduced from 120% to 100% of the total amount of debt to be redeemed. The Notes restrict our ability to incur any indebtedness for borrowed money, unless such indebtedness by its terms is expressly subordinated to the Notes in right of payment and to the security interest of the Note holder(s) in respect to the priority and enforcement of any security interest in our property securing such new debt; provided that the Note holder(s) security interest and cash payment rights under the Notes shall be subordinate to a maximum of $5 million of indebtedness for a secured accounts receivable line of credit facility under certain conditions. (See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 15 of this Report.)  We expect to raise additional capital, but there can be no assurance that such funding will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. The failure to raise capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.   We may not be able to obtain additional financing as needed on acceptable terms, or at all, which may require us to reduce our operating costs and other expenditures, including reductions of   33      personnel, salaries and capital expenditures. Alternatively, or in addition to such potential measures, we may elect to implement additional cos t reduction actions as we may determine are necessary and in our best interests. Any such actions undertaken might limit our opportunities to realize plans for revenue growth and we might not be able to reduce our costs in amounts sufficient to achieve bre ak-even or profitable operations.   If we were to raise additional capital through sales of our equity securities, our stockholders would suffer dilution of their equity ownership. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness, prohibit us from paying dividends, repurchasing our stock or making investments, and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things:          •   develop or enhance our products;          •   expand our product development and sales and marketing organizations;          •   acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses;          •   expand operations;          •   hire, train and retain employees; or          •   respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements.  Our failure to do any of these things could seriously harm our ability to execute our business strategy and may force us to curtail our existing operations or research and development plans.  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  We do not maintain any off-balance sheet arrangements or obligations that are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.  Indemnifications  In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements under which we may agree to indemnify the counter-party from losses relating to a breach of representations and warranties, a failure to perform certain covenants, or claims and losses arising from certain external events as outlined within the contract, which may include, for example, losses arising from litigation or claims relating to past performance. Such indemnification clauses may not be subject to maximum loss clauses. We have also entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors. No material amounts related to these indemnifications are reflected in our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017.  Recent Accounting Pronouncements  See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 15 of this report for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements.  Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 