-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 HxNpwVs6TX1MvMEooBm84yEyi1itXFScdfKWpLCzavncBE/efwegaJoAGmJEfQI1
 uwYv2HQHb0yUwlkTTunKmQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001072613-03-001901.txt : 20031124
<SEC-HEADER>0001072613-03-001901.hdr.sgml : 20031124
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20031124170015
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001072613-03-001901
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20030831
FILED AS OF DATE:		20031124

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000912603
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	WHOLESALE-MISC DURABLE GOODS [5090]
		IRS NUMBER:				930341923
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			OR
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0831

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-22496
		FILM NUMBER:		031021189

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3200 NW YEON AVE
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 10047
		CITY:			PORTLAND
		STATE:			OR
		ZIP:			97210-0047
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5032249900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P O BOX 10047
		CITY:			PORTLAND
		STATE:			OR
		ZIP:			97210
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>form10-k_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC. FORM 10-K
<TEXT>
================================================================================

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.

    For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2003 Commission File Number 0-22496

                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                OREGON                                  93-0341923
                ------                                  ----------
        (State of Incorporation)            (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

  3200 N.W. Yeon Ave., P.O. Box 10047
             Portland, OR                                 97296-0047
             ------------                                 ----------
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (503) 224-9900

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                       Class A Common Stock, $1 par value
                                (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in the definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes [X] No [ ]

The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting common stock outstanding
held by non-affiliates on February 28, 2003 was $118,329,105

The Registrant had 13,304,516 shares of Class A Common Stock, par value of $1.00
per share, and 6,639,486 shares of Class B Common Stock, par value of $1.00 per
share, outstanding at November 1, 2003.


                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the 2004 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference in Part III.
================================================================================
<PAGE>

                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K



                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

PART  ITEM                                                                  PAGE

  I  1.          BUSINESS.....................................................3
                     Overview.................................................4
                     Business Strategy........................................4
                     Metals Recycling Business................................7
                     Joint Ventures..........................................10
                     Steel Manufacturing Business............................11
                     Auto Parts Business.....................................15
                     Environmental Matters...................................17
                     Employees...............................................20
     2.          PROPERTIES..................................................21
     3.          LEGAL PROCEEDINGS...........................................22
     4.          SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE
                     OF SECURITY HOLDERS.....................................22
     4(a).       EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT........................22

 II  5.          MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND
                     RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.............................24
     6.          SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.....................................25
     7.          MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                     CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.....................26
     7A          QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES
                     ABOUT MARKET RISK.......................................41
     8.          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.................42
     9.          CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
                     ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE..................75
     9A          CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.....................................75

III  10.         DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
                     REGISTRANT..............................................76
     11.         EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION......................................76
     12.         SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
                     OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
                     STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.....................................76
     13.         CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS..............76
     14.         PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES......................76

 IV  15.         EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND
                     REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.....................................77


                                        2
<PAGE>

                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Overview

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. (the Company) and its joint venture businesses
collect, process and recycle metals by operating one of the largest metals
recycling businesses in the United States. The Company also manufactures
finished steel products at its technologically advanced steel mini-mill (the
Steel Manufacturing Business). On February 14, 2003, the Company's wholly-owned
subsidiary, Norprop, Inc. ("Norprop"), acquired all of the stock of Pick and
Pull Auto Dismantling, Inc., which was the Company's 50% partner in Pick-N-Pull
Auto Dismantlers, a California general partnership, and all of the membership
interests in Pick-N-Pull Auto Dismantlers, Stockton, LLC. The acquired companies
were consolidated with the Company's previous interest in the business to form a
separate reporting segment (the Auto Parts Business) also referred to as
"Pick-N-Pull". Pick-N-Pull is one of the country's leading self-service used
auto parts networks. Additionally, Pick-N-Pull is a major supplier of auto
bodies to the Company's Metals Recycling Business. As a result of its vertically
integrated business, the Company is able to transform auto bodies and other
unprocessed metals into finished steel products. The Company believes that its
Metals Recycling, Steel Manufacturing, and Auto Parts Businesses are cost
competitive in their markets.

The Company's wholly-owned recycling business (the Metals Recycling Business)
and its joint ventures have major collection and processing facilities in the
following locations:

        Metals Recycling Business                  Joint Venture Operations
        -------------------------                  ------------------------

        Portland, OR                               Jersey City, NJ
        Oakland, CA                                Long Island, NY
        Tacoma, WA                                 Los Angeles, CA
        Sacramento, CA                             Everett, MA
        Eugene, OR                                 Providence, RI
        Fresno, CA                                 Madbury, NH

The Metals Recycling Business' eleven yards, including the major facilities
shown above, sold 1.8 million ferrous tons, of which 0.2 million tons were
brokered, in fiscal 2003. Additionally, through joint ventures, the Company
participates in the management of an additional 30 metals recycling collection
and processing facilities including the major facilities shown above. These
processing joint ventures sold 3.3 million ferrous tons in fiscal 2003.
Additionally, these joint ventures provide international and domestic services
which broker metal processed by third parties. In fiscal 2003, this brokerage
business approximated 1.8 million tons.

As the steel industry in the United States consolidates, the Company believes it
is well positioned to remain a leader in the major markets in which it
participates. In addition, it is anticipated that the demand for recycled
ferrous metals will increase due to the continued transformation of the world's
steel producers from virgin iron ore based blast furnaces to newer,
technologically advanced electric arc furnace (EAF) mini-mills. In the last 25
years, steel production using recycled metals and the EAF process has grown
dramatically. The EAF process, which uses 85%-95% recycled metal compared with
the traditional steel-making process that uses less than 35% recycled metal, is
more environmentally sound and energy efficient. By recycling steel, limited
natural resources are preserved and the need to disrupt the environment with the
mining of virgin iron ore is greatly reduced. Further, when recycled metal,
instead of iron ore is used for new steel production, air and water pollution
generated by the production process decreases. Currently, almost half of
domestic steel and much of foreign-based steel is produced using the EAF
process. Since 1995, global EAF production has grown 30%. Most of the growth has
come from China, the world's largest and fastest growing steel producing
country, and other Asian countries. Future growth in EAF production, as

                                        3
<PAGE>

well as in other steel alternative production technologies, projected by
industry analysts, translates into expected growth in demand for recycled
metals. Using the EAF process to produce new steel makes the recycled ferrous
metal commodity a strategic raw material for both domestic and foreign markets.
Further benefiting the Company and its joint ventures in the metals recycling
business is their strategic geographic locations at many of the major deep-sea
ports in the United States. These ports allow the Company and its joint ventures
the option of supplying foreign steel producers as well as domestic steel mills.

The Company's Steel Manufacturing Business consists of its wholly-owned
subsidiary, Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, Inc. The Steel Manufacturing Business
produces steel reinforcing bar (rebar), wire rod, merchant bar and coiled rebar.
The Company believes that the Steel Manufacturing Business has a competitive
position in its market due to its readily available source of recycled metals,
efficient production processes, state-of-the-art technology, well-located
shipping and transportation facilities, access to competitively priced electric
power and proximity to California and other major western markets.

The Company's self-service used auto parts business (the Auto Parts Business)
has retail facilities in the following locations:

               Northern California                                 17
               Nevada                                               2
               Texas                                                1
               Utah                                                 1
               Illinois                                             1
               Indiana                                              1
                                                                 ----
               Total                                               23
                                                                 ====

The Auto Parts Business purchases salvaged vehicles, sells parts from those
vehicles through its retail facilities and wholesale operations, and sells the
remaining portion of the vehicles to metal recyclers. The Company believes the
Auto Parts Business has a competitive position in its markets due to its
consistent approach and efficient processing of auto bodies.

Business Strategy
- -----------------

The Company's business strategy emphasizes continued growth of the ferrous
recycled metals business and auto parts business through additive acquisitions
and joint ventures, and maintaining its status as an efficient and competitive
producer of both recycled metal and finished steel products, as well as a
low-cost provider of retail and wholesale used auto parts, through investments
in state-of-the-art manufacturing equipment and increased production
efficiencies.

The Company considers itself, first and foremost, a ferrous metals recycling
company with historically over 60% of its operating income, before corporate
expenses and eliminations and impairment and other nonrecurring charges, derived
from the Metals Recycling Business and its Joint Ventures in the Metals
Recycling Business. The Metals Recycling Business is one of the leading
processors in each of the markets in which it operates. The Company intends to
continue its focus on increasing the Company's position as one of the premier
recycled metals processors in the country.

The Company's Metals Recycling Business enters into export sales contracts by
selling forward 45 to 90 days and purchases metals on a daily basis. The typical
supplier of unprocessed metal is a relatively small, local business or
manufacturer who sells metals in limited quantities. These typical suppliers
generally do not have the ability to inventory material in significant
quantities, and therefore lack the market leverage to influence prices. By
knowing the price for which the processed material will be sold and the costs
involved in processing the metals, the Company is generally able to take
advantage of this differential in timing between purchases and sales and
negotiate prices with suppliers that secure profitable transactions.

                                        4
<PAGE>

The Company has developed a multi-part growth strategy, which includes the
following elements:

EXPAND METALS RECYCLING OPERATIONS. The Company will continue to seek expansion
opportunities within both its existing markets and elsewhere. Since the
Company's initial public offering in 1993, the Company has focused on and will
continue to emphasize increasing its sources of ferrous metals through its
existing network and through selective acquisitions or through joint ventures
with metals processors and suppliers of metal. Examples since the Company's
initial public offering include:

     o    In fiscal 1998, the Company and Hugo Neu Corporation, one of the
          Company's joint venture partners, increased their East Coast market
          position through the buyout of a third joint venture partner and the
          completion of two other strategic joint venture acquisitions;

     o    In November 1996, the Company acquired Proler International Corp.
          (Proler). At that time, Proler's joint ventures with Hugo-Neu
          Corporation of New York processed approximately 3 million long tons of
          ferrous metals per year;

     o    In March 1995, the Company purchased Manufacturing Management, Inc.
          (MMI), another metals processor which added approximately 500,000 long
          tons per year to the Company's ferrous recycled metals volume; and

     o    In December 1993, the Company acquired four metals collection and
          processing facilities in central and southern Oregon.

The Company has also made a series of investments in other joint ventures, which
has increased the Company's sources of metals supply.

COMPLETE VALUE CREATING ACQUISITIONS. The Company intends to complete
acquisitions it believes will earn income, after tax, in excess of its cost of
capital. With a strong balance sheet, cash flows and available borrowing
capacity, the Company believes it is in an attractive position to complete an
acquisition should one fitting the Company's long-term strategic plans become
available and if a reasonable price can be attained.

EXPAND AUTO PARTS BUSINESS
In fiscal 2003, the Company acquired one of its largest suppliers of unprocessed
metal and joint venture partners and formed the Auto Parts Business segment. The
Auto Parts Business provides the Company with strong vertical integration.
Pick-N-Pull is one of the country's leading self-service used auto parts
networks and over the last 15 years it has developed a strong management team
and internal systems and processes that are believed to provide it with the
ability to efficiently replicate the business model in other locations. The
Company intends to seek expansion opportunities for Pick-N-Pull within both its
existing markets and elsewhere in North America.

INVEST IN STATE-OF-THE-ART PROCESSING AND MANUFACTURING. The Company's objective
is to be an efficient and competitive producer of both recycled metals and
finished steel products in order to maximize the operating margin for both
operations. To meet this objective, the Company has focused on and will continue
to emphasize the cost-effective purchasing and efficient processing of metals.
The Company has made significant investments in state-of-the art equipment to
ensure that its operations have cost effective technology to produce high
quality products and to maximize economies of scale. The Company continues to
invest in equipment to improve the efficiency and capabilities of its
businesses. During the last five years, the Company has spent $63.4 million on
capital improvements.

During fiscal 2000, the Metals Recycling Business completed the installation of
a state-of-the-art automobile shredder (also known as a "mega-shredder"),
capable of shredding over 2,000 tons per day, at its Tacoma facility. This
shredder replaced two older shredders that on a combined basis were capable of
producing 1,000 tons per day. The mega-shredder has reduced operating costs and
improved product quality; moreover, it enables the Tacoma metals recycling
facility to shred material that was not previously shredded and had to be sold
as lower margin materials. The Company has also entered into an agreement to
purchase a mega-shredder for its Oakland facility that is expected to be
installed in late 2004. Additionally, the dock and bulkhead at the Tacoma
facility were rebuilt during fiscal 1999 to more effectively handle the
increased shredder capacity, the exporting of metals and receipt of

                                        5
<PAGE>

bulk unprocessed metals via marine sources. Also, all three of the Metals
Recycling Business' export facilities continue to invest in sorting technologies
to recover more high-valued nonferrous metal from the auto shredding process.

During fiscal 2002, the Company's Portland, Oregon metals recycling facility
embarked on a dock and loading facility renovation, including the acquisition of
a portside crane, in order to increase its efficiency in loading recycled metals
export cargos. The renovation was temporarily suspended in fiscal 2003 when
severe deterioration of the dock's substructure was detected during demolition
activities. The project is being reengineered to rebuild the substructure and to
accommodate additional heavy industrial requirements, which will better serve
the Company's long term needs.

One of Pick-N-Pull's primary business strategies is to utilize information
systems technology to collect data regarding production and processing costs and
customer sales. To this end, Pick-N-Pull continues to invest in its systems to
maintain them as state of the art.

In fiscal 2002, the Steel Manufacturing Business completed the installation of a
static var compensator at the Steel Manufacturing Business' mini-mill. It
provides a more uniform and efficient power supply in the steel making process.
The Steel Manufacturing Business also made improvements to the dust collection
system and waste water treatment facilities to meet or exceed environmental
compliance with its operating permits.

In fiscal 2003, the Steel Manufacturing Business enhanced the wire rod segment
of its business with the installation of a ring distributor and improvements to
the product cooling system. These improvements enhanced the product yield and
packaging of wire rod products. Product quality was also improved, allowing the
Company to sell higher grade product at a premium price.

In fiscal 2004, the Steel Manufacturing Business plans to replace the electric
arc furnace in the melt shop. The new furnace is expected to reduce energy
consumption and improve productivity.

CAPTURE BENEFITS OF INTEGRATION. The Company has historically sought to capture
the potential benefits of business integration whenever possible. The Company
believes it enjoys a competitive advantage over non-vertically integrated
mini-mill steel producers as a result of its extensive metals recycling
operation. Beginning with the source of raw materials, the Auto Parts Business
has the capability to supply the Metals Recycling Business with a portion of its
auto bodies for use in its metals recycling process when market conditions are
such that it is prudent to do so. The Metals Recycling Business then has the
capability to provide the Steel Manufacturing Business with a predictable, high
quality supply of recycled metals in an optimal mix of grades for efficient
melting. Likewise, the Steel Manufacturing Business ensures a steady market for
a portion of the Metals Recycling Business' production.

The Company leverages a portion of shared administrative services with certain
of its joint venture partners and related companies which reduces the cost of
these services to the Company.

ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED. In fiscal year 2001, the Company and certain of its joint
ventures implemented an Economic Value Added (EVA(R)) financial measurement and
compensation system. EVA measures the value of, and guides, economic decision
making based on established return on investment criteria that the Company
believes meets the expectations of the financial markets. Decisions made under
EVA are designed to create long-term, sustainable value. In addition, the
decision making is decentralized and provides managers with the financial
analysis tools to make better decisions. Managers' incentive pay is directly
linked to success in creating value and is designed to motivate and reward
reasonable and sensible risk taking. EVA measures and evaluates the performance
of the Company and its employees by explicitly recognizing the cost of equity,
as well as debt, capital and quantifying the results. On a periodic basis, the
EVA plan is recalibrated.

                                        6
<PAGE>

METALS RECYCLING BUSINESS
- -------------------------

The Company is one of the largest metals processors in the United States, with
eleven wholly-owned metals collection and processing facilities. The Company
buys, processes and sells ferrous metals to foreign and domestic steel producers
and to the Steel Manufacturing Business. The Metals Recycling Business also
engages in the brokerage business by purchasing metal from other recycled metals
processors for shipment directly to the Steel Manufacturing Business without
further processing by the Metals Recycling Business. To a lesser extent, the
Company also buys, processes and sells nonferrous metals to both the domestic
and export markets. A significant portion of the nonferrous volume comes as a
by-product of the ferrous shredding process.

Due to the large capital investment required for metals recycling equipment and
the scarcity of potential yard sites that are properly zoned and have access to
waterways, highways and railroads, the recycled metals industry is characterized
by a relatively small number of large dominant metals processors, such as the
Company's Metals Recycling Business, and many smaller regional metals
processors. The large processors collect raw metals from a variety of sources,
including smaller metal recyclers and dealers, and then sort, clean and cut it
into sizes and grades suitable for use by steel manufacturers.

The Company's Portland, Oakland, and Tacoma metals recycling facilities are
located at deep water terminals operated by the Company and also have rail and
highway access. As a result, the Company believes it is strategically located,
both for collection of unprocessed metals from suppliers and for distribution of
processed recycled metals to West Coast and foreign steel producers. The Company
owns the Oakland and Tacoma facilities and leases the Portland location from a
related party. Additionally, because the Company operates the terminal
facilities, it is not normally subject to the same berthing delays often
experienced by users of unaffiliated terminals. The Company's loading costs are
believed to be lower than they would be if the Company was to utilize third
party terminal facilities.

Customers and Marketing. The following table sets forth information about the
amount of ferrous recycled metals sold by the Company's Metals Recycling
Business to certain groups of customers during the last five fiscal years:
<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                     Year Ended August 31,
                                -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      2003              2002               2001              2000              1999
                                ----------------  ----------------  -----------------  ----------------  ----------------
<S>                             <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>       <C>
                                 Sales    Vol.1    Sales    Vol.1    Sales     Vol.1    Sales    Vol.1    Sales    Vol.1
                                ------    -----    ------   -----    ------   -----     ------   -----    ------   -----
                                                               (dollar amounts in millions)
Asian Steel Producers
  and Representatives           $178.7    1,157    $126.8   1,068     $91.8     777     $ 91.7     761    $ 48.4     491

Steel Manufacturing Business:

    Processed                     34.8      303      29.7     313      42.6     471       39.2     411      39.2     447
    Brokered 2                    26.0      232       7.9      94       7.1      95        7.1      87       6.1      92
                                ------    -----    ------   -----    ------   -----     ------   -----    ------   -----
                                  60.8      535      37.6     407      49.7     566       46.3     498      45.3     539

Other US Steel Producers          15.8      120       9.1      82      14.1     139       26.0     247      18.5     194
                                ------    -----    ------   -----    ------   -----     ------   -----    ------   -----
        Total                   $255.3    1,812    $173.5   1,557    $155.6   1,482     $164.0   1,506    $112.2   1,224
                                ======    =====    ======   =====    ======   =====     ======   =====    ======   =====
</TABLE>

1    In thousands of long tons (2,240 pounds).
2    Consists of recycled metal that is purchased from other suppliers for
     direct shipment and is not processed by the Metals Recycling Business.

The Company sells recycled metals to foreign and unaffiliated domestic steel
producers or their representatives and to the Steel Manufacturing Business. The
Company has developed long-standing relationships with Asian and United States
steel producers. The Company's primary Asian recycled metals customers are
located in China, South Korea and Taiwan. To serve these customers more
effectively, the Company operates a wholly-owned subsidiary, SSI International

                                        7
<PAGE>

Far East Ltd., in Seoul, South Korea, and has an agent in China. Additionally,
the Company uses representatives in Tokyo, Japan to provide market data. The
Company believes these representatives not only enhance the Company's service to
its Asian customers, but also provide a valuable local presence and source of
information in these markets. The Metals Recycling Business' five largest
customers accounted for 64% of recycled metals sales to unaffiliated customers.
However, the Company's recycled metals customers vary from year to year due to
demand, competition, relative currency values and other factors. All recycled
metals sales are denominated in United States dollars and substantially all
ferrous recycled metals shipments to foreign customers are supported by letters
of credit.

Historically, ferrous recycled metals prices have on average increased over the
long term; such prices, however, are subject to market cycles. Prices for
foreign recycled metals shipments are generally established through a
competitive bidding process. The Company generally negotiates domestic prices
based on export price levels. Foreign recycled metals sales contracts typically
provide for shipment within 45 to 90 days after the price is agreed to, which,
in most cases, includes freight. The Company attempts to respond to changing
export price levels by adjusting its purchase prices at its metals recycling
yards to maintain its operating margin dollars per ton. However, the Company's
ability to fully maintain its operating margin per ton through periods of
rapidly declining prices can be limited by the impact of lower purchase prices
on the volume of recycled metals flowing to the Company from marginal
unprocessed metal suppliers. Accordingly, the Company believes it benefits from
rising recycled metals prices, which provide the Company greater flexibility to
maintain or widen both margins and unprocessed metals flow into its yards.

The Company also sells recycled nonferrous metals to foreign customers. Demand
from Asian countries, especially China, continues to increase. The Company's
efficiency in recovering nonferrous metals from its shredding process provides
increasing supplies to sell to foreign customers. Also, the Company purchases
nonferrous metals directly from other suppliers for sale overseas. The
nonferrous cargoes are loaded into ocean going containers which are shipped to
the customer. The following table sets forth information about the amount of
nonferrous recycled metals sold by the Company's Metals Recycling Business
during the last five fiscal years:
<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                          Year Ended August 31,
                                  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        2003                 2002                2001                2000                1999
                                  ----------------    -----------------    ----------------    ----------------    ----------------
                                  Sales    Vol.(1)    Sales     Vol.(1)    Sales    Vol.(1)    Sales    Vol.(1)    Sales    Vol.(1)
                                  -----    -------    -----     -------    -----    -------    -----    -------    -----    -------
                                                                     (dollar amounts in millions)
<S>                               <C>     <C>         <C>      <C>         <C>     <C>         <C>      <C>         <C>     <C>
     Nonferrous recycled metals   $47.8   113,378     $41.7    112,622     $43.0   114,441     $38.9    96,207      $26.4   74,497
                                  =====   =======     =====    =======     =====   =======     =====    ======      =====   ======
</TABLE>

(1)   In thousands of  pounds

SOURCES OF UNPROCESSED METALS. The most common forms of raw metals purchased by
the Company are obsolete machinery and equipment such as automobiles, railroad
cars, railroad tracks, home appliances and demolition metal from buildings and
other obsolete structures. The metals are acquired from drive-in sellers at
posted prices at the Company's eleven metals recycling yards, from drop boxes at
a diverse base of suppliers' industrial sites and through negotiated purchases
from railroads and other large suppliers. The Company purchases unprocessed
metals from a large number of suppliers, including railroads, industrial
manufacturers, automobile salvage yards, metals dealers, landfills and
individuals. Metals recycling yards situated nearest to unprocessed metals
sellers and major transportation routes have a competitive advantage because of
the significance of freight charges relative to the value of metals. The
Company's Portland yard benefits from northwestern rail, highway and water
transportation routes allowing it to attract sellers from Oregon, Washington,
Idaho, Montana, Utah, Nevada and Northern California. The Eugene, Grants Pass,
White City and Bend yards are smaller facilities that serve as collection points
from central and southern Oregon. Two of these yards also have some processing
capabilities. These yards primarily use trucks and railroads to transport their
products. The Oakland yard gives the Company sourcing capability in the San
Francisco Bay area, one of the largest metropolitan regions in the country. The
Sacramento and Fresno yards are facilities that serve as collection and
processing points for metals from the growing central valley of California and
Western Nevada and are served by rail and trucks. These facilities provide
materials for the Company's Oakland export operation, ship material to domestic
customers and ship certain products directly to the Company's Steel
Manufacturing Business. The Company's Tacoma

                                        8
<PAGE>

yard, along with its collection facilities, collect metals from Seattle and the
entire Puget Sound area as well as from throughout Washington, Montana, Idaho,
Alaska and Western Canada. Product is shipped and received via rail, truck and
water (e.g. ship or barge).

METALS RECYCLING. The Company processes raw metal by sorting, shearing,
shredding, torching and processing metal into pieces of a size, density and
purity required by customers for use in their melting furnaces. Smaller, more
homogenous pieces of processed metals have more value because they melt more
easily than larger pieces and more completely fill a steel mill's furnace charge
bucket. Over 70% of the ferrous metals collected by the Company's metals
recycling facilities requires processing before sale.

Seven of the Company's eleven wholly-owned metals recycling facilities operate
large capacity guillotine-style shears for cutting large pieces of ferrous metal
into smaller, more saleable pieces. At six of the facilities, the Company also
has large scissor shears mounted on portable material handlers that move about
the yards and cut bulky pieces of metal into sizes that can be further processed
by the guillotine shears. These mobile shears are capable of reducing a railroad
boxcar to useable recycled metal in approximately 30 minutes.

One of the most efficient ways to process and sort metal is by the use of
shredding systems. The Portland and Oakland facilities each operate a large
shredder capable of processing up to 1,500 tons of metal per day. In fiscal
2000, the Tacoma facility completed the installation of a state-of-the-art
mega-shredder capable of shredding over 2,000 tons per day. The Company has also
entered into an agreement to purchase a mega-shredder for its Oakland facility
that is expected to be installed in late 2004. These shredders are designed to
provide a denser product, which is efficiently used by steel mills and broadens
the types of material that can be shredded. They reduce automobile bodies, home
appliances and other light gauge sheet metal into fist-size pieces of shredded
recycled metal in seconds. The shredded material is then carried by conveyor
under magnetized drums, which attract the ferrous recycled metal and separate it
from the nonferrous metals and other residue found in the shredded material,
resulting in a relatively pure and clean shredded steel product. The remaining
nonferrous metal and residue then pass through a process that mechanically
separates the nonferrous metals from the residue. The remaining nonferrous
metals are either hand sorted and graded before being sold or sold unsorted.
During fiscal 2000, the Portland yard installed a new indoor nonferrous sorting
system, which reduces the moisture content of the unprocessed material and
allows for greater recovery of high value nonferrous metallics. In fiscal 2003,
the Oakland yard began upgrading its nonferrous sorting capabilities with
similar eddy current separators to increase capacity and improve the nonferrous
recovery from the shredding process.

DEEP WATER TERMINAL FACILITIES. The Company delivers ferrous recycled metals to
foreign steel producers by ship. The Company achieves cost efficiencies by
operating deep water terminal facilities at its Portland, Tacoma and Oakland
facilities. As a result, the Company is generally not subject to normal berthing
delays sometimes experienced by users of unaffiliated terminal facilities. The
Oakland and Portland docks also have berths serviced by a bulk loading conveyor
for loading shredded metal. The Oakland facility has a 350 foot concrete wharf,
with the ability to handle longer ships, which was placed into service in 1990,
and a 40-ton container crane, which has been modified to load and unload bulk
cargo. The crane will be upgraded over the next year as the facility's shipping
schedule allows. The Tacoma marine terminal is serviced by a 250-ton gantry
crane and one 40-ton crane. A new 400 foot dock and bulkhead were completed at
the Tacoma yard during fiscal 1999. Currently, the Portland dock has three
operating berths for ships and two tie-up berths, and is equipped with three
60-ton cranes for loading and unloading heavy materials, and a bulk loading
conveyor capable of loading up to 700 tons of shredded recycled metals per hour
directly into a ship's hold.

During fiscal 2002, the Company's Portland, Oregon metals recycling facility
embarked on a dock and loading facility renovation, including the acquisition of
a portside crane, in order to increase its efficiency in loading recycled metals
export cargos. The renovation was temporarily suspended in fiscal 2003 when
severe deterioration of the dock's substructure was detected during demolition
activities. The project is being reengineered to rebuild the substructure and to
accommodate additional heavy industrial requirements, which will better serve
the Company's long term needs.

                                        9
<PAGE>

The Oakland, Tacoma and Portland terminals are used for loading metals shipments
to the Company's foreign customers. In addition, the Portland terminal sells
bulk cargo storage, docking, loading and warehousing services to unrelated
parties.

COMPETITION. The Company competes for both the purchase of metals from suppliers
and the sale of processed recycled metals to finished steel producers.
Competition for metals purchased in the Metals Recycling Business' markets comes
primarily from well financed larger recyclers of metal as well as smaller metals
yards and dealers. Many of these recyclers have varying types and sizes of
processing equipment that include fixed and mobile shears and large and small
ferrous metal shredders, all with varying effects on the selling price of
recycled metal. The Company also competes with brokers who buy product on behalf
of domestic and foreign mills. The predominant competitive factors impacting the
Company's recycled metals sales and its ability to obtain unprocessed metals are
price, including shipping costs, availability, reliability of service and
product quality.

The Company competes with a number of domestic and foreign recycled metals
processors for export sales. Price, including shipping costs, and availability
are the most important competitive factors, but reliability and quality are also
important. During the last year, the ferrous export market experienced decreased
supplies of metal coming out of the countries that were part of the former
Soviet Union compared with the previous two years. The lower supplies were
primarily driven by political policy changes in these countries whereby export
tariffs and/or bans were enacted to retain recycled metal for use in their
domestic economies. The quality of the product from these countries is generally
good and their pricing was generally aggressive, as they tended to operate for
the generation of cash flow versus focusing on traditional income and return on
investment theory. The Company believes that its size and locations allow it to
compete effectively with other domestic and foreign metals recyclers.

SEASONALITY. The Company makes a number of large ferrous metals shipments to
foreign steel producers each year. The Company's control over the timing of
shipments is limited by customers' requirements, shipping schedules and other
factors. Variations in the number of shipments from quarter to quarter result in
fluctuations in quarterly revenues, earnings and inventory levels.

BACKLOG. On August 31, 2003, the Company's Metals Recycling Business had a
backlog of firm orders of $44.9 million, as compared to $13.2 million on August
31, 2002. All of the backlog on August 31, 2003 was related to export ferrous
metal shipments.


JOINT VENTURES
- --------------

The Company has invested in certain joint ventures which process and sell
recycled metals to third parties and other joint ventures that supply
unprocessed metals to the Company's operations and other metals buyers. The
Company's joint ventures with Hugo Neu Corporation recognized revenues of $858.3
million in fiscal 2003 and $618.1 million in fiscal 2002. Other joint ventures
recognized revenues of $19.0 million in fiscal 2003 and $22.9 million in fiscal
2002.

I. JOINT VENTURES IN THE METALS RECYCLING BUSINESS

The Company owns interests in five joint ventures that are engaged in buying,
processing, selling and brokering primarily ferrous metal. The Company is a 50%
partner in four of these joint ventures and is a 30% partner in another smaller
joint venture. In fiscal 2003, these joint ventures processed and sold
approximately 3.3 million long tons of ferrous metals. Through these joint
ventures, the Company participates in the management of 28 metals collection and
processing facilities, including export terminals in Los Angeles, California,
Everett, Massachusetts, Portland, Maine, Providence, Rhode Island, Jersey City,
New Jersey and 23 feeder yards. At the feeder yards, metal is collected,
processed and then transported to one of the joint venture's deep-water
terminals for subsequent export or domestic sale or sold directly to domestic
purchasers. Additionally, the trading joint venture, begun in 1999, that brokers
metals in foreign markets has increased its tonnage to 1.7 million tons in
fiscal 2003 from 1.2 million tons in

                                       10
<PAGE>

the prior year with the growth in global trade. The Company also owns a 50%
interest in two smaller metals recycling joint ventures in the Western United
States.

METALS PROCESSING AND SUPPLY. The joint ventures predominantly produce shredded
recycled metal and other grades of ferrous recycled metal, primarily heavy
melting and premium grades. Like the Metals Recycling Business, the joint
ventures process metals by shredding, sorting, baling, shearing or cutting the
metals into pieces suitable for melting. Processed metals are either inventoried
for later shipment or shipped directly by ship, barge, rail or truck to foreign
or domestic steel mills. The joint ventures also sell nonferrous metals, which
are mainly a by-product of the ferrous production process. Over the next few
years, these joint ventures have committed to replace three of their older
shredders with three highly efficient shredders at their facilities.

DEEP WATER TERMINAL FACILITIES. Through its joint ventures, the Company
participates in the management of export terminals in Los Angeles, California,
Everett, Massachusetts, Portland, Maine, Providence, Rhode Island and Jersey
City, New Jersey. The joint ventures deliver by ship recycled metals to steel
producers throughout the world. As a result of owning or leasing these
facilities, the joint ventures are not subject to berthing delays sometimes
experienced by users of unaffiliated terminal facilities.

In fiscal 2003, the export terminal in New Jersey completed a dredging project,
increasing the depth of water at the berth and in the channel to more
efficiently load deeper draft ships. Final new navigational markers and lights
should be in place by early fiscal 2004. In the past, the facility incurred
unusually high handling costs on many of its ferrous export shipments due to
water depth limitations. It is anticipated that this project will significantly
reduce ship loading costs for the joint venture.

The Everett, Massachusetts wharf facility completed a major dock renovation in
fiscal 2003, increasing efficiency of ship loading.

COMPETITION. The predominant competitive factors which impact the joint
ventures' ability to obtain unprocessed metals as a raw material and recycled
metals sales are price, including shipping costs, availability, reliability of
service and product quality. See "Competition" in the Metals Recycling Business
section of this report.

II. JOINT VENTURE SUPPLIERS OF METALS

The Company is a 50% partner in two joint ventures operating out of Richmond,
California which are industrial plant demolition contractors. These joint
ventures dismantle industrial plants, perform environmental remediation, resell
any machinery or pieces of steel that are salvaged from the plants in a usable
form and sell other recovered metals, primarily to the Company. During fiscal
2003, the Company purchased substantially all of the ferrous metals generated by
these joint ventures.

The Company purchased 53,000 and 40,000 long tons of ferrous metals from these
joint ventures in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively. Purchase terms are
negotiated at arms-length between the Company and the other partners to the
joint ventures.

STEEL MANUFACTURING BUSINESS

The Company's Steel Manufacturing Business consists of its wholly-owned
subsidiary, Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, Inc., located in McMinnville, Oregon
(approximately 45 miles southwest of Portland). The Steel Manufacturing
Business' mini-mill was originally constructed in 1968, acquired by the Company
in 1984 and was significantly modernized and expanded in the 1990's.

Since the Company purchased the mill in 1984, it has made a number of
improvements, which have modernized the machinery and equipment at the Steel
Manufacturing Business and have made it possible for the melt shop to process

                                       11
<PAGE>

700,000 tons annually, compared with less than 400,000 tons for the previous
melt shop. In fiscal 1996, the Company finished the installation of a second
rolling mill (Rolling Mill #2). Rolling Mill #2 is state-of-the-art and able to
produce more finished goods. In fiscal 1997, the Company installed a rod block
and finishing equipment at Rolling Mill #2, which allowed the Steel
Manufacturing Business to expand and enhance its product line. In fiscal 2001,
the Company installed a static var compensator that provides a more uniform
electric power supply for the steel manufacturing process. This enhancement has
increased efficiency and production in the billet making process, which allows
the Steel Manufacturing Business to take advantage of the greater efficiencies
gained on Rolling Mill #2. In fiscal 2003, the Steel Manufacturing business
enhanced the wire rod production process by installing a new ring distributor
that improved yield and produced a more uniformly packaged product, which is
preferred by steel fabricators. In addition, improvements to the wire rod
cooling system allow for the manufacture of high carbon wire rod which sells at
a premium price. In fiscal 2004, the Steel Manufacturing Business plans to
replace the electric arc furnace in the melt shop at an estimated cost of $2.5
million. The new furnace will be more efficient and will use less energy. The
improvement is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal year
2004. See further discussion under "Manufacturing Operations and Equipment"
below.

Products and Marketing. The Steel Manufacturing Business produces rebar,
merchant bar, coiled products and specialty products. Sales of these products
during the last five fiscal years were as follows:
<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                          Year Ended August 31,
                                                          ---------------------
                           2003               2002                2001                2000                1999
                           ----               ----                ----                ----                ----
                      Sales    Vol.1     Sales    Vol.1      Sales    Vol.1      Sales    Vol.1     Sales     Vol.1
                      -----    -----     -----    -----      -----    -----      -----    -----     -----     -----
                                                      (dollar amounts in millions)

<S>                 <C>         <C>    <C>         <C>     <C>         <C>     <C>         <C>     <C>         <C>
  Rebar             $  97.4     327    $  86.7     307     $  91.8     309     $  91.1     308     $ 103.0     340

  Coiled products      67.9     223       51.6     179        39.2     137        59.5     214        22.2      81

  Merchant bar         23.4      65       21.3      67        28.8      83        40.7     117        39.0     113

  Other products        3.2       7        7.0      16         7.8      17        12.3      27        17.5      37
                    -------     ---    -------     ---     -------     ---     -------     ---     -------     ---
          Total     $ 191.9     622    $ 166.6     569     $ 167.6     546     $ 203.6     666     $ 181.7     571
                    =======     ===    =======     ===     =======     ===     =======     ===     =======     ===
</TABLE>

1    In thousands of short tons (2,000 pounds).

Rebar is steel rod used to increase the tensile strength of poured concrete.
Merchant bar consists of round, flat, angle and square steel bars used by
fabricators or manufacturers to produce a wide variety of products, including
gratings, steel floor and roof joints, safety walkways, ornamental furniture,
stair railings and farm equipment. Coiled products consist of wire rod and
coiled rebar. Wire rod is steel wire, delivered in coiled form, and is used by
fabricators to produce a variety of products such as chain link fencing, nails,
wire and stucco netting. Coiled rebar is rebar delivered in coils rather than in
flat lengths, a method preferred by some fabricators as it reduces the waste and
improves yield generated by cutting individual lengths to meet customer
specifications.

The Steel Manufacturing Business sells directly from its mill in McMinnville,
Oregon and from its company owned distribution center located in El Monte,
California (Los Angeles area) and one third-party distribution center in
Stockton, California. The distribution centers facilitate sales by holding a
ready inventory of products close to major customers for just-in-time delivery.
The Steel Manufacturing Business communicates regularly with major customers to
determine their anticipated needs and plans its rolling mill production schedule
accordingly. The Steel Manufacturing Business also produces and inventories a
mix of products forecasted to meet the needs of other customers. Shipments to
customers are made by common carrier, either truck or rail.

During fiscal 2003, the Steel Manufacturing Business sold its steel products to
approximately 350 customers primarily located in the 10 western states. In that
period, approximately 22% of the Steel Manufacturing Business' sales were

                                       12
<PAGE>

made to customers in California. The Steel Manufacturing Business' customers are
principally steel service centers, construction industry subcontractors, steel
fabricators, wire drawers and major farm and wood product suppliers.

The Steel Manufacturing Business' 10 largest customers accounted for
approximately 46% of its revenues during fiscal 2003.

RECYCLED METALS SUPPLY. The Company believes it operates the only mini-mill in
the Western United States which has the ability to obtain its entire recycled
metals requirement from its own affiliated metals recycling operations. There
have at times been regional shortages of recycled metals with some mills being
forced to pay higher prices for recycled metals shipped from other regions or to
temporarily curtail operations. The Company's Metals Recycling Business has the
ability to supply the Steel Manufacturing Business both with recycled metals
that it has processed and with recycled metals that it has purchased from
third-party processors. See Metals Recycling Business. The Metals Recycling
Business is also able to deliver to the Steel Manufacturing Business an optimal
mix of recycled metal grades to achieve maximum efficiency in its melting
operations.

ENERGY SUPPLY. Electricity and natural gas represented approximately 8% and 3%,
respectively, of the Steel Manufacturing Business' cost of goods sold in the
year ended August 31, 2003.

The Steel Manufacturing Business purchases electric power from McMinnville Water
& Light (McMinnville), a municipal utility, and is McMinnville's largest
customer. The Steel Manufacturing Business has a five-year contract with
McMinnville that expires September 30, 2006. McMinnville obtains power from the
Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) and resells it to the Steel Manufacturing
Business at its cost plus a fixed charge per kilowatt hour and a 3% city
surcharge. The rate McMinnville obtains from BPA is for firm power; therefore,
the Steel Manufacturing Business is not forced to sacrifice the reliability of
its power supply for a lower interruptible power rate as is the case with
certain other mini-mills. On October 1, 2001, the BPA increased its electricity
rates due to increased demand on the West Coast and lower supplies. This
increase was in the form of a Cost Recovery Adjustment Clause (CRAC) added to
BPA's contract with McMinnville. The CRAC is an additional monthly surcharge on
selected power charges to recover costs associated with buying higher priced
power during the West Coast power shortage. The CRAC, which can be adjusted
every six months, has varied from its inception on October 1, 2002 from a low of
39% to a high of 50%. The current rate, which became effective on October 1,
2003, is 45%.

The Steel Manufacturing Business purchases natural gas for use in the reheat
furnaces from IGI Resources of Boise, Idaho, pursuant to a contract that
obligates the business to purchase minimum amounts of gas at a fixed rate or pay
a demand charge. The current contract expires on October 31, 2004. All natural
gas used by the Steel Manufacturing Business must be transmitted by a single
pipeline owned by Northwest Natural Gas Company that also serves local
residential customers of Northwest Natural Gas Company. To protect against
interruptions in gas supply, the Steel Manufacturing Business maintains stand-by
propane gas storage tanks that have the capacity to hold enough gas to operate
one of the rolling mills for at least three days without refilling.

MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS AND EQUIPMENT. The Steel Manufacturing Business' melt
shop includes a 108-ton capacity electric-arc furnace and a five-strand
continuous billet caster. The melt shop is highly computerized and automated.
The 108-ton capacity of the furnace accommodates larger, less expensive grades
of scrap. Energy savings result in part from efficiencies of the larger furnace,
but also as a result of post-combustion equipment added to the furnace in 1995.
This technology injects oxygen into the furnace during melting operations which
creates energy by combusting carbon monoxide. The melt shop also has enhanced
steel chemistry refining capabilities, permitting the mill to produce higher
margin products using special alloy quality grades of steel not currently
produced by other mills on the West Coast. The static var compensator increases
the efficiency and production in the billet making process, thereby allowing the
Steel Manufacturing Business to take advantage of the greater efficiencies
gained on Rolling Mill #2.

During fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, the melt shop produced 636,000, 483,000 and
680,000 tons of billets, respectively. Due in part to the sluggish domestic
economic conditions in fiscal 2002 and part of fiscal 2003, the Company
curtailed melt shop production to reduce billet inventories and improve cash
flow. During the first quarter

                                       13
<PAGE>

of fiscal 2003, billet inventories reached targeted levels. As a result, in
November, 2002, the melt shop resumed full operations of seven days per week.

Billets produced by the melt shop are reheated in one of two natural gas-fueled
reheat furnaces and then hot-rolled through one of two rolling mills. Rolling
Mill #1, a 17-stand mill, was rebuilt in 1986. The mill is computerized,
allowing for efficient synchronized operations of the rolls and related
equipment. The computer controls include a self-diagnostic system that detects
and identifies electronic and mechanical malfunctions in Rolling Mill #1. In
1994, the Steel Manufacturing Business completed the installation of in-line
straightening, stacking and bundling equipment on the end of Rolling Mill #1.
The addition of this equipment has permitted the Steel Manufacturing Business to
improve the packaging and quality of its products and to produce its merchant
bar products more efficiently by automating the straightening and bundling
function. It has also permitted the Steel Manufacturing Business to expand its
higher-margin merchant bar product line.

Rolling Mill #2, a technologically advanced 18-stand mill, was completed in
February 1996. The mill is computerized, allowing for efficient synchronized
operations of the rolls and related equipment. The computer controls include a
self-diagnostic system that detects and identifies electronic and mechanical
malfunctions in the mill. In fiscal 1997, the Company installed a rod block and
finishing equipment at Rolling Mill #2 which allowed the Steel Manufacturing
Business to expand and enhance its product line into coiled steel products. In
the first quarter of fiscal 2003, the Steel Manufacturing Business enhanced the
wire rod production process by installing a ring distributor and making
improvements to the wire rod cooling system. The ring distributor improved yield
and produces a more uniformly packaged product. Improvements to the wire rod
cooling system allow for the manufacture of larger diameter and high carbon wire
rod which sells at a premium price.

In fiscal 2004, the Steel Manufacturing Business plans to replace the electric
arc furnace in the melt shop at a cost of $2.5 million. The new furnace, with a
110-ton capacity, will be more efficient and will reduce electric power
consumption. The final installation of the furnace is expected to be completed
over a period of less than two weeks during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004.
Peripheral structures will be completed prior to that time while the existing
furnace is in operation. In order to accommodate the rolling mills' need for
billets during the installation shut-down, the Steel Manufacturing Business will
increase billet inventory leading up to the final installation. Management
expects to add 10,000 tons to the billet inventory during December 2003 when the
operation is normally shut down. As the final installation gets closer,
management will reassess the anticipated needs of the rolling mills and adjust
the billet inventory accordingly.

TRANSPORTATION. The Steel Manufacturing Business makes extensive use of rail and
truck transportation for shipment of its products to its distribution centers
and customers in California and for the shipment of recycled metals to the mill
both from the Metals Recycling Business' yards and other metal recyclers in
Oregon and California.

Competition. The Steel Manufacturing Business competes with the following
Western United States steel producers for sales of rebar and merchant bar: Nucor
Corporation (Nucor) in Plymouth, Utah, Seattle, Washington and Kingman, Arizona
(currently idle); Tamco in Los Angeles, California; and Chaparral Steel Company
in Midlothian, Texas. In December 2002, Nucor acquired Birmingham Steel, which
has a steel mill in operation located in Seattle, Washington, and also acquired
the North Star Mill in Kingman, Arizona plant that remains idle. For sales of
wire rod, the Steel Manufacturing Business competes with an Oregon Steel Mills,
Inc. plant located in Pueblo, Colorado, other domestic producers located
primarily on the West Coast and importers. Other domestic mills located east of
the Rocky Mountains generally do not compete in the Steel Manufacturing
Business' market area because of transportation costs. The principal competitive
factors in the Steel Manufacturing Business' market are price (including freight
cost), product availability, quality and service. Certain of the Steel
Manufacturing Business' competitors have substantially greater financial
resources than the Steel Manufacturing Business. In addition to domestic
competition, the Steel Manufacturing Business has historically competed
intensely with foreign steel producers principally located in Asia, Canada,
Mexico, and Central and South America in certain of its product lines. During
fiscal 2001, the Steel Manufacturing Business experienced significant
competition from low-priced steel imports. In March and April 2002, the United
States International Trade Commission (ITC) imposed tariffs on imported steel,
under Section 201 of the 1974 Trade Act to

                                       14
<PAGE>

temporarily aid the domestic steel industry. To date, however, these tariffs
have not significantly benefited selling prices for finished steel products on
the West Coast of the United States. In the spring of 2002, the U.S. Government
imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties against wire rod products from
eight foreign countries. In fiscal 2003, imports of steel were also affected by
foreign currency fluctuations. Relevant foreign currencies generally
strengthened relative to the U.S. dollar, making imports into the U.S. more
expensive. As a result of the duties and these changes in foreign exchange
rates, the Company has recently experienced less competition from foreign steel
producers.

In June 2003, Oregon Steel Mills, Inc. permanently shut down its Portland melt
shop. Although Oregon Steel Mills' (OSM) finished products do not directly
compete with the Company, OSM has historically competed for recycled metal
supplies in the Pacific Northwest. Thus, this closure is expected to reduce the
end user demand for unprocessed metal in the Portland, Oregon market.

SEASONALITY. The Steel Manufacturing Business' revenues can fluctuate
significantly between quarters due to factors such as the seasonal slowdown in
the construction industry, which occurs from the late fall through early spring,
and in other industries it serves. In the past, the Steel Manufacturing Business
has generally experienced its lowest sales during the second quarter of the
fiscal year. The Company expects this pattern to continue in the future.

BACKLOG. The Steel Manufacturing Business generally ships products within days
after the receipt of purchase orders. Backlogs are seasonal and would be larger
in fiscal quarters three and four.

AUTO PARTS BUSINESS
- -------------------

The auto dismantling and used auto parts industry is very fragmented, with few
dominant players. This is particularly the case in the self-service sector of
the used auto parts industry. With 23 stores in six states, the Company believes
it has one of the largest self-service used auto parts networks in the United
States. Seventeen of these stores are located in Northern California, with the
remaining stores located in Nevada, Utah, Illinois, Indiana and Texas. The
Company purchases salvaged vehicles, sells parts from those vehicles through its
retail store facilities and wholesale operations, and sells the remaining
portion of the vehicles to metal recyclers, including the Company's Metals
Recycling Business.

The Company is dedicated to supplying low cost used auto parts to its customers.
In general, management believes that the price of parts is significantly lower
than full service auto dismantling prices, retail car part store prices and car
dealership prices. Each store offers an extensive selection of vehicles from
which consumers can remove parts. The average store is located on 14 acres and
contains 1,600 cars available to the customer. The Company carries domestic and
foreign cars, vans and light trucks. The Company rotates its inventory
frequently, providing customers with access to new parts. The Company does not
remove parts for its customers or perform automotive repairs.

The Company typically seeks to locate its facilities with convenient access to
major streets and major population centers. By operating its stores at locations
that are convenient and visible to the target customer, the stores become the
first stop a customer makes in acquiring their used auto parts. Convenient
locations also make it easier and less expensive for suppliers to deliver
vehicles.

                                       15
<PAGE>

Products and Marketing. The following table sets forth information about the
significant components of sales made by the Company's Auto Parts Business and
predecessor companies during the last five fiscal years:
<TABLE><CAPTION>

                                                                   Year Ended August 31,
                                                                   ---------------------
                             2003                   2002(1)                2001(1)                2000(1)                1999(1)
                             ----                   -------                -------                -------                -------
                      Sales        %.        Sales        %.        Sales        %.        Sales        %.       Sales         %.
                      -----        --        -----        --        -----        --        -----        --       -----         --
                                                               (dollar amounts in millions)
<S>                 <C>            <C>     <C>            <C>     <C>            <C>     <C>            <C>     <C>            <C>
Retail sales        $44,463        68%     $42,257        73%     $37,826        74%     $32,965        74%     $29,031        76%

Wholesale sales      20,762        32%      16,018        27%      13,505        26%      11,792        26%       9,043        24%
                    -------       ---      -------       ---      -------       ---      -------       ---      -------       ---
        Total       $65,225       100%     $58,275       100%     $51,331       100%     $44,757       100%     $38,074       100%
                    =======       ===      =======       ===      =======       ===      =======       ===      =======       ===
</TABLE>

(1) The sales for periods prior to fiscal 2003 are not included in the Company's
consolidated revenues. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 3 in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company sells auto parts from each of its retail locations. Upon arriving at
a store, a customer pays an admission charge and signs a liability waiver before
entering the facility. When a customer finds a desired part on a vehicle, the
customer removes it and pays a standard retail price for the part.

Once the vehicle is removed from the customer area, certain remaining parts that
can be sold wholesale ("cores") are removed from the vehicle. In California,
these cores, such as engines, transmissions and alternators, are consolidated at
a central facility. From this facility, the parts are sold, via an auction
system, to a variety of different wholesale buyers. Due to larger volumes
generated via this consolidation process, the Company has been able to obtain
increasingly higher prices for these cores.

After the core removal process is complete, the remaining auto body is crushed
and sold as scrap metal in the wholesale market. The auto bodies are sold on a
price per ton basis. This price is subject to fluctuations in the recycled
ferrous metal markets. Traditionally, the majority of the Northern California
stores' auto bodies are sold to the Metals Recycling Business's Oakland
facility. During fiscal 2003, the Auto Parts Business had sales of $7.7 million
to the Metals Recycling Business, thereby making it the Auto Parts Business'
single largest customer. The Company's wholesale business consists of its core
and scrap sales.

COMPETITION. The Company competes with both full-service and self-service auto
dismantlers as well as larger well-financed retail auto parts businesses for
retail customers. Also, the Company competes for its vehicle inventory with
other dismantlers, used car dealers, auto auctions and metal recyclers. Vehicle
costs can fluctuate significantly depending on market conditions and prices for
recycled metal.

SOURCES OF VEHICLES. The Company obtains vehicles from three primary sources:
tow companies, private parties and charities. The Company employs car buyers who
travel to tow companies and bid on vehicles. The Company also has a program to
purchase vehicles from private parties called "Cash for Junk Cars." This program
is advertised in telephone directories and newspapers. Private parties call a
toll free number and receive a quote for their vehicle. The private party can
either deliver the vehicle to one of the retail locations or the Company can
arrange for the vehicle to be picked up.

SEASONALITY. Retail sales and admissions are somewhat seasonal and principally
affected by weather and promotional events. Since the stores are open to the
natural elements, during periods of prolonged wet, cold or extreme heat, the
retail business tends to slow down due to the difficult customer working
conditions. As a result, the Company's first and third fiscal quarters tend to
generate the most retail sales and the second and fourth fiscal quarters are the
slowest in terms of retail sales.

                                       16
<PAGE>

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
- ---------------------

Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is a significant factor in
the Company's business. Some of the Company's businesses are subject to local,
state, federal and supranational environmental laws and regulations concerning,
among other matters, solid waste disposal, hazardous waste disposal, air
emissions, water quality and discharge, dredging and employee health.
Environmental legislation and regulations have changed rapidly in recent years
and it is likely that the Company will be subject to even more stringent
environmental standards in the future.

PORTLAND HARBOR

In December 2000, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) named
the Portland Harbor, a 5.5 mile stretch of the Willamette River in Portland,
Oregon, as a Superfund site. The Company's metals recycling and deep water
terminal facility in Portland, Oregon is located adjacent to the Portland
Harbor. Crawford Street Corporation, a Company subsidiary, also owns property
adjacent to the Portland Harbor. The EPA has identified 69 potentially
responsible parties (PRPs), including the Company and Crawford Street
Corporation, which own or operate sites adjacent to the Portland Harbor
Superfund site. The Company leases the metals recycling and deep water terminal
facility from Schnitzer Investment Corp. (SIC), a related party, and is
obligated under its lease with SIC to bear the costs relating to the
investigation and remediation of the property. The precise nature and extent of
any clean-up of the Portland Harbor, the parties to be involved, and the process
to be followed for such a clean-up have not yet been determined. It is unclear
whether or to what extent the Company or Crawford Street Corporation will be
liable for environmental costs or damages associated with the Superfund site. It
is also unclear whether natural resource damage claims or third party
contribution or damages claims will be asserted against the Company. While the
Company and Crawford Street Corporation participated in certain preliminary
Portland Harbor study efforts, they are not parties to the consent order entered
into by the EPA with other PRPs (Lower Willamette Group) for a Remedial
Investigation/Feasibility Study; however the Company could become liable for a
share of the costs of this study at a later stage of the proceedings.

Separately, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) has requested
operating history and other information from numerous persons and entities which
own or conduct operations on properties adjacent to or upland from the Portland
Harbor, including the Company and Crawford Street Corporation. The DEQ
investigations at the Company and Crawford Street sites are focused on
controlling any current releases of contaminants into the Willamette River. The
Company has agreed to a voluntary Remedial Investigation/Source Control effort
with the DEQ regarding its Portland, Oregon deep water terminal facility and the
site owned by Crawford Street Corporation. DEQ identified these sites as
potential sources of contaminants that could be released into the Willamette
River. The Company believes that improvements in the operations at these sites,
often referred to as Best Management Practices (BMPs), will be sufficient to
effectively provide source control and avoid the release of contaminants from
these sites, and has proposed to DEQ the implementation of BMPs as the
resolution of this investigation.

While the cost of the investigations associated with these properties and the
cost of employment of source control BMPs are not expected to be material, no
estimate is currently possible and none has been made as to the cost of
remediation, if any. No accrual for remediation of the Portland Harbor or the
Company's adjacent properties had been established as of August 31, 2003.

MANUFACTURING MANAGEMENT, INC.

In 1994, Manufacturing Management, Inc. (MMI) recorded a reserve for the
estimated cost to cure certain environmental liabilities. This reserve was
carried over to the Company's financial statements when MMI was acquired in
1995, and at August 31, 2003 aggregated $15.6 million.

General Metals of Tacoma (GMT), a subsidiary of MMI, owns and operates a metals
recycling facility located in the State of Washington on the Hylebos Waterway, a
part of Commencement Bay, which is the subject of an ongoing remediation project
by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the
Comprehensive

                                       17
<PAGE>

Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). GMT and more
than 60 other parties were named potentially responsible parties (PRPs) for the
investigation and clean-up of contaminated sediment along the Hylebos Waterway.
On March 25, 2002, EPA issued Unilateral Administrative Orders (UAOs) to GMT and
another party to proceed with Remedial Design and Remedial Action (RD/RA) for
the head of the Hylebos and to two other parties to proceed with the RD/RA for
the balance of the waterway. It is anticipated that the UAOs will soon be
converted to more specific voluntary consent decrees and that EPA will take
additional action against other PRPs. The issuance of the UAOs did not require
the Company to change its previously recorded estimate of environmental
liabilities for this site. Significant uncertainties continue to exist regarding
the total cost to remediate this site as well as the Company's share of those
costs; nevertheless, the Company's estimate of its liabilities related to this
site is based on information currently available.

The Natural Resource Damage Trustees (Trustees) for Commencement Bay have
asserted claims against GMT and other PRPs within the Hylebos Waterway area for
alleged damage to natural resources. In March 2002, the Trustees delivered a
draft settlement proposal to GMT and others in which the Trustees suggested a
methodology for resolving the dispute, but did not indicate any proposed damages
or cost amounts. In June 2002, GMT responded to the Trustees' draft settlement
proposal with various corrections and other comments, as did twenty other
participants. It is unknown at this time whether, or to what extent, GMT will be
liable for natural resource damages. The Company's previously recorded
environmental liabilities include an estimate of the Company's potential
liability for these claims.

The Washington State Department of Ecology named GMT, along with a number of
other parties, as Potentially Liable Parties (PLPs) for a site referred to as
Tacoma Metals. GMT operated on this site under a lease prior to 1982. The
property owner and current operator have taken the lead role in performing a
Remedial Investigation and Feasibility Study (RI/FS) for the site. The RI/FS is
now completed and the parties are currently involved in a mediation settlement
process to address cost allocations. The Company's previously recorded
environmental liabilities include an estimate of the Company's potential
liability at this site.

MMI is also a named PRP at two third-party sites at which it allegedly disposed
of transformers. At one site, MMI entered into a settlement under which it paid
$825,000 towards remediation of the site. Remediation of the site has been
completed and it is now subject to a five year monitoring program. The other
site has not yet been subject to significant remedial investigation. MMI has
been named as a PRP at several other sites for which it has agreed to de minimis
settlements. In addition to the matters discussed above, the Company's
environmental reserve includes amounts for potential future cleanup of other
sites at which MMI has conducted business or has allegedly disposed of other
materials.

PROLER

In 1996, prior to the Company's acquisition of Proler International Corp.
(Proler), Proler recorded a liability for the probable costs to remediate its
wholly-owned properties. The Company carried over the aggregate reserve to its
financial statements upon acquiring Proler, and $3.5 million remained
outstanding on August 31, 2003.

As part of the Proler acquisition, the Company became a 50% owner of Hugo
Neu-Proler Company (HNP). HNP has agreed, as part of its 1996 lease renewal with
the Port of Los Angeles (POLA), to conduct a multi-year, phased remedial
clean-up project involving certain environmental conditions on its metals
recycling facility at its Terminal Island site in Los Angeles, California, which
was completed in 2002. HNP is waiting for final certification from POLA and the
regulatory agencies overseeing the cleanup. Remediation included excavation and
off-site disposal of contaminated soils, paving and groundwater monitoring.
Other environmentally protective actions included installation of a stormwater
management system and construction of a noise barrier and perimeter wall around
a substantial portion of the facility.

Metals Recycling L.L.C. (Metals) is a scrap metals processing business with
locations in Rhode Island and Massachusetts. The members of Metals are one of
the Company's Proler joint ventures and Izzo Group, Inc. On June 9, 1999, the
Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management (DEM) issued a Notice of
Violation (NOV) against Metals, alleging Metals had violated federal and state
regulations relating to the storage, management

                                       18
<PAGE>

and transportation of hazardous waste and seeking to impose an administrative
penalty of $0.7 million. Metals has filed an answer to the NOV in which it
denied the allegations and requested an adjudicatory hearing. In January of
1999, federal and state officials searched Metal's Johnston, Rhode Island and
Worcester, Massachusetts facilities. Metals was advised that the search was part
of a state criminal investigation into possible violations of state and federal
hazardous waste programs and a Rhode Island statute that prohibits the disposal
of out-of-state solid waste at the landfill operated by Rhode Island Resource
Recovery Corporation (RIRRC). A grand jury was empanelled to consider the
allegations and issued an indictment on August 30, 2002 against Metals for
storing hazardous waste without a permit, operating a hazardous waste disposal
facility without a permit, causing transportation of hazardous waste without a
permit, causing transportation of hazardous waste without a manifest and
operating a solid waste management facility without a license. Metals has
pleaded not guilty on all counts and has vigorously contested the state's
allegations. Settlement discussions with DEM and the Rhode Island Attorney
General's Office to settle the civil NOV and the criminal charges are being
held.

In August 1999, the DEM issued a NOV to RIRRC, that included a civil penalty of
$0.3 million, relating to the alleged disposal of hazardous waste by Metals at a
landfill operated by RIRRC. RIRRC settled this matter with DEM, and in response
to RIRRC's claim against Metals for contribution, RIRRC and Metals agreed to a
settlement in which Metals paid RIRRC $0.2 million in 2003.

On March 15, 2002, DEM issued a NOV against Metals' Johnston, Rhode Island
facility, alleging violations of provisions of the Rhode Island Clean Air Act
and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and seeking to impose administrative
penalties of $1.1 million against Metals. On April 5, 2002, Metals filed its
answer and request for a hearing, in which it denied liability for such alleged
violations. In August 2003, Metals and DEM agreed to a settlement of this matter
providing for payment by Metals of a reduced fine of $0.7 million payable in
2003 through 2007, which is further reduced to $0.3 million payable in 2003
through 2004 if Metals installs electric engines, converting from diesel.

Metals' results of operations for the past few years have included accruals for
the probable costs to remediate or settle the above mentioned environmental
situations.

Additionally, other Proler joint venture sites with potential environmental
clean-up issues have been identified. Estimated clean-up costs associated with
these sites have been accrued for by the joint ventures.

METALS RECYCLING BUSINESS

After the shredding of automobile bodies and other obsolete machinery and
appliances and the separation of ferrous and salable nonferrous metals, the
remaining auto shredder residue must be managed. State and federal standards
prescribe sampling protocols requiring representative samples of auto shredder
residue to be analyzed to determine if they are likely to leach heavy metals,
PCBs or other hazardous substances in excess of acceptable levels. Auto shredder
residue from the Company's metals recycling operations in Oakland and Tacoma
undergo an in-line chemical stabilization treatment prior to beneficial use as
an alternative daily landfill cover.

STEEL MANUFACTURING BUSINESS

Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, Inc.'s steel mini-mill generates electric arc
furnace (EAF) dust, which is classified as a hazardous waste by the EPA because
of its zinc and lead content. Currently, the EAF dust is shipped to a firm in
the United States that applies a treatment that allows the EAF dust to be
delisted as hazardous so it can be disposed of as a non-hazardous, solid waste.
By maintaining an annual renewable export license, the Company retains
flexibility by having an option to send EAF dust to a secondary smelter in
Mexico that recycles EAF dust to produce commercial grade zinc and lead.

The Steel Manufacturing Business' mini-mill operating permit under Title V of
the Clean Air Act Amendment of 1990, which governs certain air quality
standards, was first issued in 1998 and has since been renewed through the year
2007. The mini-mill's air permit allows the Steel Manufacturing Business to melt
up to 900,000 tons of

                                       19
<PAGE>

recycled metals per year and produce finished steel products totaling 450,000
tons for Rolling Mill #1 and 525,000 tons for Rolling Mill #2.

As the mini-mill's production grows beyond current levels, the Steel
Manufacturing Business has anticipated that it would need to enhance its
existing facilities to properly control increased emissions in order to remain
in compliance with the operating permit. In fiscal 2001, the Steel Manufacturing
Business installed an expanded baghouse system that more efficiently and
effectively controls emissions. The installation was completed at a cost of $0.6
million. In fiscal year 2002, the baghouse was expanded further at a cost of
$0.7 million.

In fiscal 2003, the caster cooling water system was expanded at a cost of $0.3
million which provided cleaner and cooler water to the billet casting section of
the melt shop.

AUTO PARTS BUSINESS

In connection with the acquisition of the Auto Parts Business, the Company
conducted an environmental due diligence investigation. Based upon new
information obtained in this investigation, the Joint Venture accrued $2.1
million in environmental liabilities in the second quarter of fiscal 2003 for
remediation costs at the Auto Parts Business's store locations. No environmental
proceedings are pending at any of these sites.

It is not possible to predict the total size of all capital expenditures or the
amount of any increases in operating costs or other expenses that may be
incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries to comply with environmental
requirements applicable to the Company, its subsidiaries and their operations,
or whether all such cost increases can be passed on to customers through product
price increases. Moreover, environmental legislation has been enacted, and may
in the future be enacted, to create liability for past actions that were lawful
at the time taken but have been found to affect the environment and to increase
public rights of action for environmental conditions and activities. As is the
case with steel producers and recycled metals processors in general, if damage
to persons or the environment has been caused, or is in the future caused, by
the Company's hazardous materials activities or by hazardous substances now or
hereafter located at the Company's facilities, the Company may be fined and/or
held liable for such damage and, in addition, may be required to remedy the
condition. Thus, there can be no assurance that potential liabilities,
expenditures, fines and penalties associated with environmental laws and
regulations will not be imposed on the Company in the future or that such
liabilities, expenditures, fines or penalties will not have a material adverse
effect on the Company.

The Company has, in the past, been found not to be in compliance with certain
environmental laws and regulations and has incurred liabilities, expenditures,
fines and penalties associated with such violations. The Company's objective is
to maintain compliance. Efforts are ongoing to be responsive to environmental
regulations.

The Company believes that it is in material compliance with currently applicable
environmental regulations as discussed above and, except as discussed above,
does not anticipate any substantial capital expenditures for new environmental
control facilities during fiscal 2004 or 2005.

EMPLOYEES

As of August 31, 2003, the Company had 1,495 full-time employees, consisting of
465 employees at the Company's Metals Recycling Business, 451 employees at the
Steel Manufacturing Business, 519 employees at the Auto Parts Business and 60
corporate administrative employees. Of these employees, as of August 31, 2003,
623 are covered by collective bargaining agreements with twelve unions. The
Steel Manufacturing Business' contract with the United Steelworkers of America
covers 334 of these employees and expires on April 1, 2005. The Company believes
that its labor relations generally are good.

                                       20
<PAGE>

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company's website is located at www.schnitzersteel.com. The Company makes
available free of charge on or through its website, its annual, quarterly and
current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably
practicable after electronically filing such reports with the Securities and
Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Information contained on the Company's website is
not part of this report or any other report filed with the SEC.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company's Portland metals recycling facility, Portland deep water terminal
facilities, and the related buildings and improvements are located on an
approximately 120-acre industrial site owned by Schnitzer Investment Corp.
(SIC), a related party, and leased to the Company under a long-term lease. See
Part III, Item 13 "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."
Approximately 17 acres are occupied by the Company's deep water terminal
facilities, and the balance is used by for recycling metal.

Since 1973, the Sacramento recycled metals operations have been located on a
7-acre site, most of which was leased from SIC under a long-term lease. In
August 2003, the Company purchased this leased land from SIC at fair market
value. See Part III, Item 13, "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."
The Pasco, Washington and Anchorage, Alaska operations are located on sites
leased from third parties.

The following metals recycling operations are all located on sites owned by the
Company or subsidiaries:

                         LOCATION                       ACREAGE OWNED AT SITE
                         --------                       ---------------------
                         Oakland, CA                              33
                         Tacoma, WA                               26
                         Fresno, CA                               17
                         Sacramento, CA                           13
                         Eugene, OR                               11
                         White City, OR                            4
                         Bend, OR                                  3
                         Grants Pass, OR                           1

The Steel Manufacturing Business' steel mill and administrative offices are
located on an 83-acre site owned by the Steel Manufacturing Business in
McMinnville, Oregon. In fiscal 2002, the Company purchased 51 acres near the
mill site in McMinnville, Oregon. The Steel Manufacturing Business also owns its
87,000 sq. ft. distribution center in El Monte, California.

The Auto Parts Business has retail facilities in the following locations:

                                           Number of           Total
                                           Locations          Acreage
                                           ---------          -------

Northern California                            17               211
Nevada                                          2                30
Texas                                           1                33
Utah                                            1                12
Illinois                                        1                17
Indiana                                         1                29
                                              ---               ---
Total                                          23               332
                                              ===               ===

                                       21
<PAGE>

The Company owns the properties located in Indiana and Nevada. Additionally, it
owns approximately 25 acres in California, 6 acres in Illinois and 2.5 acres in
Utah. The remainder of the California and Illinois facilities and the Texas
facility are located on sites leased by the Company from third parties.

The equipment and facilities on each of the foregoing sites are described in
more detail in the descriptions of each of the Company's businesses. The Company
believes its present facilities are adequate for operating needs for the
foreseeable future.

The Company's principal executive offices are located at 3200 and 3300 NW Yeon
Avenue in Portland, Oregon in 48,000 sq. ft. of space leased from SIC under
long-term leases. See Part III, Item 13 "Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions."

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Except as described above under Part I, Item 1 "Business -- Environmental
Matters", the Company is not a party to any material pending legal proceedings.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year ended August 31, 2003.

ITEM 4(a).  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Name                     Age                         Office
- ----                     ---                         ------

Robert W. Philip         56        President and Chief Executive Officer

Gary Schnitzer           61        Executive Vice President - California Metals
                                   Recycling Business

Barry A. Rosen           58        Vice President - Finance and Treasurer and
                                   Chief Financial Officer

Kurt C. Zetzsche         64        President, Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, Inc.

Terry L. Glucoft         55        Vice President - Domestic Trading

Jay Robinovitz           45        Vice President - Operations

Kelly E. Lang            42        Vice President - Corporate Controller

          Robert W. Philip has been President of the Company since March 1991
and Chief Executive Officer since January 2002. He had been a Vice President of
the Company since 1984 with responsibility for the Company's Metra Steel
distribution division from 1984 to the time of its sale in July 1990.

          Gary Schnitzer has been Executive Vice President in charge of the
Company's California metals recycling operations since 1980. Gary Schnitzer is a
first cousin of Robert Philip's wife.

                                       22
<PAGE>

          Barry A. Rosen has been Vice President-Finance, Treasurer, and Chief
Financial Officer of the Company since 1982. Prior to joining the Company, Mr.
Rosen was Chief Financial Officer of a privately held real estate developer. In
addition, Mr. Rosen held financial management positions with Sara Lee
Corporation and was an Audit Manager with Price Waterhouse.

          Kurt C. Zetzsche joined the Company in February 1993 as President of
the Steel Manufacturing Business. Mr. Zetzsche has been in the steel production
business since 1966. From 1990 to 1993, he was President of Tennessee Valley
Steel, a mini-mill steel producer. From 1976 to 1989, he was President of
Knoxville Iron Co., also a mini-mill steel producer.

          Terry L. Glucoft joined the Company in February 1985 and has held a
number of management positions within the Metals Recycling Business, the latest
of which is Vice President of Domestic Trading where he overseas the Northwest
recycled metals sales operations. Prior to joining Schnitzer Steel, Mr. Glucoft
was employed by Judson Steel Company, a steel mini-mill in California, from 1979
to 1985.

          Jay Robinovitz joined the Company in January 1993 and has held various
senior management positions, including the last four years serving as General
Manager of the Company's Tacoma yard. Prior to joining Schnitzer, Mr. Robinovitz
was employed by Aerospace Industries, Inc., in Hartford, Connecticut from 1986
to 1993.

          Kelly E. Lang joined the Company in September 1999 as Vice
President-Corporate Controller. From 1996 to September 1999, he was employed by
Tektronix Inc. in various financial capacities, the last of which was Vice
President, Finance for Tektronix Inc.'s Color Printing and Imaging Division.
From 1994 to 1996, he was Treasurer of Crown Pacific Partners, LP. Mr. Lang was
also a CPA with Price Waterhouse LLP. Mr. Lang has resigned his position with
the Company effective as of December 1, 2003.

                                       23
<PAGE>


                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K

                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company's Class A Common Stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market tier
of the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol SCHN. The approximate number of
shareholders of record on October 31, 2003 was 111. The stock has been trading
since November 16, 1993. The following table sets forth the high and low prices
reported at the close of trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market and the dividends
paid per share for the periods indicated, all as adjusted for the 1-for-1 stock
dividend effected August 14, 2003.

                                        Fiscal Year 2003
                                        ----------------
                          High Price       Low Price        Dividends Per Share
                          ----------       ---------        -------------------
     First Quarter            $ 9.58          $ 8.34                $.025
     Second Quarter            12.00            8.87                 .025
     Third Quarter             16.84           11.78                 .025
     Fourth Quarter            26.24           17.53                 .025


                                        Fiscal Year 2002
                                        ----------------
                          High Price       Low Price        Dividends Per Share
                          ----------       ---------        -------------------
     First Quarter            $ 7.18          $ 5.46                $.025
     Second Quarter             8.25            6.52                 .025
     Third Quarter             10.70            7.50                 .025
     Fourth Quarter            11.16            9.02                 .025







                                       24
<PAGE>

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                        Year Ended August 31,
                                               -------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   2003(1)         2002          2001          2000          1999
                                                   -------         ----          ----          ----          ----
<S>                                            <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
                                                    (In millions, except per share, per ton and shipment data)
INCOME STATEMENT DATA:
     Revenues                                  $    496.9    $    350.6    $    322.8    $    367.5    $    284.9
     Cost of goods sold and other
        operating expenses                         (413.0)       (324.4)       (290.9)       (330.7)       (258.9)
     Impairment and other non-
        recurring charges                            (2.1)         (7.1)         --            --            --
     Selling and commission expense                  (5.3)         (2.9)         (2.2)         (2.5)         (2.8)
     General and administrative                     (32.2)        (25.8)        (24.4)        (24.0)        (20.8)
     Income from joint ventures                      24.4          19.4           9.8           4.5           3.5
                                               ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------
     Income from operations                          68.7           9.8          15.1          14.8           5.9
     Interest expense                                (1.8)         (2.3)         (5.1)         (7.4)         (7.0)
     Other income (expense)                          (0.5)          0.2           1.3           3.6           2.5
                                               ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------
     Income before cumulative effect of
        change in accounting principle,
        income taxes, minority interests
        and pre-acquisition interests                66.4           7.7          11.3          11.0           1.4
     Income tax provision                           (17.9)         (1.1)         (3.4)         (0.6)         (0.8)
     Minority interests, net of tax                  (1.8)         --            --            --            --
     Pre-acquisition interests, net of tax           (2.5)         --            --            --            --
     Cumulative effect of change in
        accounting principle                         (1.0)         --            --            --            --
                                               ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------
     Net income                                $     43.2    $      6.6    $      7.9    $     10.4    $      0.6
                                               ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========

     Basic earnings per share(2)               $     2.32    $     0.36    $     0.42    $     0.53    $     0.03
                                               ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========
     Diluted earnings  per share(2)            $     2.20    $     0.35    $     0.42    $     0.53    $     0.03
                                               ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========
     Dividends per common share(2)             $     0.10    $     0.10    $     0.10    $     0.10    $     0.10
                                               ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========

OTHER DATA:
     Shipments (in thousands)(3):
        Ferrous recycled metal (tons)               1,812         1,557         1,482         1,506         1,224
        Nonferrous (pounds)                       113,378       112,622       114,441        96,207        74,497
        Finished steel products (tons)                622           569           546           666           571

     Average net selling price(3,4):
        Ferrous recycled metal (per ton)       $      122    $       94     $      91     $      95     $      83
        Nonferrous (per pound)                       0.42          0.36          0.37          0.40          0.35
        Finished steel products (per ton)             291           276           292           289           303

     Depreciation and amortization             $     19.4    $     18.6     $    18.8     $    18.4     $    17.7
     Capital expenditures                            21.8           9.6           9.3          10.7          12.0
</TABLE>


                                       25
<PAGE>

                                                 August 31,
                                 ------------------------------------------
                                  2003     2002     2001     2000     1999
                                  ----     ----     ----     ----     ----
                                               (In millions)
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
     Working capital             $ 72.4   $ 39.4   $ 91.4   $ 79.9   $ 93.4
     Total assets                 487.9    405.0    425.9    426.3    446.4
     Short-term debt                0.2     60.2      0.2      0.2      0.4
     Long-term debt                87.0      8.3     93.8     93.1    119.8
     Shareholders' equity         303.0    252.9    248.1    248.4    240.3


(1)  The 2003 data includes the Auto Parts Business acquisition, which occurred
     on February 14, 2003. Please refer to Note 1 and Note 3 of the Notes to the
     Consolidated Financial Statements. The consolidated results include the
     results of the Auto Parts Business as though the acquisition had occurred
     at the beginning of fiscal 2003. Adjustments have been made for minority
     interests, which represents the ownership interests the Company did not own
     during the reporting period and pre-acquisition interests, which represents
     the share of income attributable to the former joint venture partner for
     the period from September 1, 2002 through February 14, 2003. The financial
     results of the former auto parts joint venture for all periods prior to
     fiscal 2003 continue to be accounted for using the equity method and are
     included in the line "Income from joint ventures."

(2)  Basic and diluted earnings per share and dividends per common share have
     been adjusted to reflect the 1-for-1 share dividend paid on August 14,
     2003, to shareholders of record on July 24, 2003.

(3)  Tons for ferrous recycled metals are long tons (2,240 pounds) and for
     finished steel products are short tons (2,000 pounds).

(4)  The Company reports revenues that include shipping costs billed to
     customers. However, average net selling prices are shown net of shipping
     costs.

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW
- --------
The Company operates in three industry segments. The Company's Metals Recycling
Business collects, processes and recycles steel and other metals through its
facilities. The Company's Steel Manufacturing Business operates a mini-mill near
Portland, Oregon, which melts recycled metal, produces finished steel products
and maintains one mill depot in Southern California and one in Central
California. The Company's Auto Parts Business purchases used and wrecked
automobiles and allows retail customers the opportunity of extracting parts for
purchase in its self-service auto parts stores, with 17 located in California,
two in Nevada and one store in each of Texas, Utah, Illinois and Indiana.
Additionally, the Company is a non-controlling partner in joint ventures that
are either in the metals recycling business or are suppliers of unprocessed
metals. The Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business sell recycled metals
that have been processed at their facilities (Processing) and also buy and sell
third parties' processed metals (Brokering).

Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the Auto
Parts Business acquisition that occurred on February 14, 2003. Under Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 ("SFAS 141"), "Business Combinations,"
the acquisition is considered a "step" acquisition due to the fact that the
Company had a significant joint venture interest in the acquired business for a
number of years. Additionally, since the acquisition occurred during the year,
the Company elected to include it in the consolidated results as though it had
occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2003. Thus, the fiscal 2003 statement of
operations, balance sheet and statement of cash flows have been adjusted to
consolidate the acquisition as of September 1, 2002. Also, the acquired
businesses were consolidated with the Company's previous interest in the
business to form a separate reporting segment called the Auto Parts Business.
Consolidation accounting requires the Company to adjust its earnings for the
ownership interests it did not own during the reporting period. During fiscal
2003, net income was reduced by $1.8 million for minority interests, net of
income taxes, representing the share of income attributable to various
continuing minority partners of the business. Also, for the

                                       26
<PAGE>

period from September 1, 2002 through February 14, 2003, net income was reduced
by $2.5 million of pre-acquisition interests, net of income taxes, representing
the share of income attributable to the former joint venture partner prior to
the acquisition. The financial results of the acquired business for periods
prior to fiscal 2003 continue to be accounted for using the equity method and
are included in the joint venture businesses reporting segment.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
- ------------------------------------------

The Company's discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of
operations are based upon its consolidated financial statements, which have been
prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The
preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates
and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues
and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an
ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates. The Company bases its
estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates and
assumptions provide a basis for making judgments about the carrying values of
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual
results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
conditions, and these differences may be material.

The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more
significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated
financial statements.

INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using
the average cost method. The production and accounting process utilized by the
Company to record recycled metals inventory quantities relies on significant
estimates. The Company relies upon perpetual inventory records that utilize
estimated recoveries and yields that are based upon historical trends and
periodic tests for certain unprocessed metal commodities. Over time, these
estimates are reasonably good indicators of what is ultimately produced;
however, actual recoveries and yields can vary depending on product quality,
moisture content and source of the unprocessed metal. To assist in validating
the reasonableness of the estimates, the Company not only runs periodic tests,
but also performs physical inventories. Physical inventories can normally
detect significant variations in volume, but because of variations in product
density, holding period and production processes utilized to manufacture the
product, physical inventories will not generally detect smaller variations. To
mitigate this risk, the Company adjusts it physical inventories when the volume
of a commodity is low and a physical inventory can more accurately predict the
remaining volume.

REVENUE RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes revenue when it has a contract or purchase order from a
customer with a fixed price, the title and risk of loss transfer to the buyer,
and collectibility is reasonably assured which is generally upon shipment.
Title for both metals and finished steel products transfers upon shipment. For
retail sales by the Company's Auto Parts Business, revenues are recognized when
customers pay for salvaged vehicle parts or when wholesale products are shipped
to the customer location. Substantially all of the Company's ferrous export
sales of recycled metal are made with letters of credit, minimizing credit risk.
However, domestic ferrous recycled metal sales, nonferrous sales and sales of
finished steel are generally made on open account. Historically, there have been
very few sales returns and adjustments that impact the ultimate collection of
revenues; therefore no provisions are made when the sale is recognized.

BAD DEBT RESERVES
The Company evaluates the collectibility of its accounts, notes and advances
receivable based on a combination of factors. In cases where management is
aware of circumstances that may impair a specific customer's ability to meet its
financial obligations to the Company, management records a specific allowance
against amounts due and reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount we
reasonably believe will be collected. For all other customers, the Company
maintains a reserve that considers the total receivables outstanding, historical
collection rates and economic trends.

                                       27
<PAGE>

ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS
The Company operates in industries that inherently possess environmental risks.
To manage these risks, the Company employs both its own environmental staff and
outside consultants. These consultants and finance personnel meet regularly to
stay updated on environmental risks. The Company estimates future costs for
known environmental remediation requirements and accrues for them on an
undiscounted basis when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability
and the related costs can be reasonably estimated. The regulatory and government
management of these projects is extremely complex, which is one of the primary
factors that make it difficult to assess the cost of potential and future
remediation of potential sites. When only a wide range of estimated amounts can
be reasonable established, and no other amount within the range is better than
another, the minimum amount of the range is recorded in the financial
statements. Adjustments to the liabilities are made when additional information
becomes available that affects the estimated costs to remediate. In a number of
cases, it is possible the Company may receive reimbursement through prior
insurance. In these situations, recoveries of environmental remediation costs
from other parties are recorded as assets when collection is accomplished.

TAXES
Deferred income taxes reflect the differences between the financial reporting
and tax bases of assets and liabilities at year-end based on enacted tax laws
and statutory tax rates. Tax credits are recognized as a reduction of income
tax expense in the year the credit arises. A valuation allowance is established
when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets, including net operating loss
carryforwards, to the amount more likely than not to be realized. Periodically,
the Company reviews the deferred tax assets to assess whether the valuation
allowances continue to be necessary. The valuation allowances will be reversed
when there is significant evidence that it is more likely than not that the
assets will be realized.

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES

Effective June 1, 2001, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," under which
goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives are no longer
amortized. The Company reviews its goodwill and non-amortizable intangibles on
an annual basis for impairment, or more frequently if impairment indicators
arise, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142. Prior to adoption of
SFAS No. 142, the Company amortized goodwill and other intangible assets over
their estimated useful lives.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------

During fiscal 2003, the Company's operations improved dramatically, resulting in
a record year for revenue and net income. Both the Company's Metals Recycling
Business and Steel Manufacturing Business recognized marked improvements over
last year. As well, the Company's Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling
Business benefited from rising selling prices to improve their profitability by
nearly 80%. Also, as explained further below, the Company acquired a new
business segment, the Auto Parts Business, in fiscal 2003. This segment
significantly contributed to earnings during the year.

The results of operations of the Company depend in large part upon demand and
prices for recycled metals in world markets and steel products in the Western
United States. For example, increasing steel demand and prices led to improved
profitability during the period of fiscal 1995 through fiscal 1997. However,
during fiscal 1998 and 1999, the Asian financial crisis severely curtailed
demand and decreased prices, causing a negative impact on the results of the
Metal Recycling Business. During fiscal 2000, the Company saw demand for
recycled metal rise, but unusually large supplies of recycled ferrous metal
became available from certain countries that were part of the former Soviet
Union, thereby holding prices down. In addition, domestic demand for finished
steel products was strong, but lower cost imports, primarily from Asia, caused
average prices to generally decline. In fiscal 2001, the demand for recycled
metals declined in the United States as domestic steel production declined;
however, demand in Asia, particularly in China, remained firm. Selling prices
also continued to be adversely affected by supplies coming out of the former
Soviet Union

                                       28
<PAGE>

and during the first six months of fiscal 2002, recycled metals prices
approached record lows due primarily to this surplus coupled with weak domestic
demand. Domestic demand for finished steel products declined due to the slowing
United States economy and competition from lower cost imports. The result was a
record low average net selling price for the Steel Manufacturing Business during
fiscal 2002.

During the second half of fiscal 2002, certain countries of the former Soviet
Union started imposing export tariffs and bans on recycled ferrous metal. As a
result, recycled ferrous metal supplies to global markets declined causing
prices to increase. Many of the Company's customers postponed purchases during
the first quarter of fiscal 2003 believing that these delays would cause prices
to decline. However, demand, which is being fueled primarily by China and Korea,
continued to remain strong and the Company continues to experience improved
market conditions. Throughout much of the remainder of fiscal 2003, selling
prices continued to rise primarily due to the tight supply of ferrous metal
available in the export market and the weakness of the U.S. dollar relative to
other foreign currencies.

The Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business were affected by the same
supply and demand factors as the Company's wholly-owned Metals Recycling
Business.

The Steel Manufacturing Business saw higher average selling prices and higher
sales volumes during fiscal 2003 due primarily to a higher valued product sales
mix and lower volumes of competing imported steel, which is partially attributed
to the weakness of the U.S. dollar. Additionally, during the spring of 2002, the
U.S. Government imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties on certain wire
rod imports from eight foreign countries, which combined with higher worldwide
ferrous recycled metals prices (the primary raw material used to produce much of
the world's wire rod), improved the competitive position of domestic wire rod
producers. The Steel Manufacturing Business turned this price parity with
imported wire products into increased sales and market share. In the second
quarter of fiscal 2003, the Steel Manufacturing Business completed two capital
projects to one of the rolling mills, which now allow it to produce higher
margin specialty wire products, to improve the packaging of coiled products and
increase the productivity on all wire production.

The Auto Parts Business segment was formed in the second quarter of fiscal 2003
as a result of the acquisition referred to in the "Overview" section. It
purchases salvaged vehicles, sells parts from those vehicles through its retail
facilities and wholesale operations and sells the remaining portion of the
vehicles to metal recyclers. The retail operations are somewhat seasonal and
principally affected by weather conditions and promotional events. Since the
stores are open to the natural elements, during periods of prolonged wet, cold
or extreme heat, the retail business tends to slow down due to the difficult
customer working conditions. Further, the Company generally runs promotional
events during seasonably moderate times of the year when it is most likely to
affect the buying patterns of its retail customers. As a result, the Company's
first and third fiscal quarters tend to generate the most retail sales and the
second and fourth fiscal quarters are the slowest in terms of retail sales. The
Auto Parts Business' other primary source of revenue is the sale of scrap metal
and other parts wholesale. Revenues for the wholesale product lines are
principally affected by commodity prices and shipping schedules. As mentioned
earlier in the discussions regarding the Metal Recycling Business, recycled
metal prices have increased dramatically since the second quarter of fiscal
2002, which has positively affected the revenues and profits of the Auto Parts
Business.

The following tables set forth information regarding the breakdown of revenues
between the Company's Metals Recycling Business, Steel Manufacturing Business
and Auto Parts Business, and the breakdown of income from operations between the
Metals Recycling Business, the Steel Manufacturing Business, the Auto Parts
Business, Joint Ventures, Corporate and eliminations. Additional financial
information relating to business segments is contained in Note 12 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       29
<PAGE>


                                                          Revenues
                                                    Year Ended August 31,
                                                    ---------------------
                                                        (In millions)
                                              2003           2002         2001
                                              ----           ----         ----
Metals Recycling Business:
     Ferrous                                $ 255.3       $ 173.5       $ 155.6
     Nonferrous                                47.8          41.7          43.0
     Other                                      5.5           6.6           6.5
                                            -------       -------       -------
     Recycled metals total                    308.6         221.8         205.1

Auto Parts Business                            65.2          --            --
Steel Manufacturing Business                  191.9         166.6         167.6
Intercompany sales eliminations(1)            (68.8)        (37.8)        (49.9)
                                            -------       -------       -------
     Total                                  $ 496.9       $ 350.6       $ 322.8
                                            =======       =======       =======

                                                Income (Loss) from Operations
                                                    Year Ended August 31,
                                                    ---------------------
                                                        (In millions)
                                              2003          2002          2001
                                              ----          ----          ----

Metals Recycling Business                   $  35.8       $  11.5(4)    $   8.4
Auto Parts Business                            22.0          --            --
Steel Manufacturing Business                   (2.5)         (5.7)          4.9
JVs in the Metals Recycling Business(2)        24.8          13.8           6.5
JV Suppliers of Metals                         (0.4)          5.6           3.3
Corporate expense (3)                         (10.0)         (8.1)         (7.9)
Intercompany eliminations(1)                    1.2          (0.2)         (0.1)
Impairment and other nonrecurring charges      (2.1)(4)      (7.1)(4)      --
                                            -------       -------       -------
     Income  from operations                $  68.8       $   9.8       $  15.1
                                            =======       =======       =======

(1)  Ferrous recycled metal sales from the Metals Recycling Business to the
     Steel Manufacturing Business, and auto body sales from the Auto Parts
     Business to the Metals Recycling Business, are made at negotiated rates per
     ton that are intended to approximate market. Consequently, these
     intercompany sales tend to produce intercompany profits, which are
     eliminated until the finished products are ultimately sold to third
     parties.

(2)  Includes year-end LIFO adjustments that reduced income from operations by
     $2.2 million and $1.2 million in fiscal 2003 and 2002, respectively, and
     increased income from operations by $0.9 million in fiscal 2001.

(3)  Corporate expense consists primarily of unallocated corporate expense for
     services that benefit all three business segments. Because of this
     unallocated expense, the income from operations of each segment does not
     reflect the income from operations the segment would have as a stand-alone
     business.

(4)  Impairment and other nonrecurring charges related to the Metals Recycling
     Business in fiscal 2002 and to the Auto Parts Business in fiscal 2003. The
     amounts are shown separately to assist in understanding the business'
     financial results.

FISCAL 2003 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2002
- -----------------------------------

REVENUES. Consolidated revenues increased $146.2 million (42%) to $496.9 million
for fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal 2002. Revenues for the Metals Recycling
Business increased due to higher selling prices and volumes as worldwide demand
for ferrous metals strengthened through the year. Revenues for the Steel
Manufacturing Business

                                       30
<PAGE>

also increased due to higher average net selling prices and increased sales
volumes. Consolidated revenues also increased by $65.2 million due to the
addition of the Auto Parts Business as a consolidated business.

The Metals Recycling Business generated revenues of $308.6 million, before
intercompany eliminations, which is an increase of $86.7 million (39%). Ferrous
revenues increased $81.8 million (47%) to $255.3 million as a result of an
increase in tons sold and higher average selling prices net of shipping cost
(average net selling prices). Ferrous sales volumes increased 255,000 tons (16%)
and the average net selling price of ferrous recycled metal increased $28 (30%)
to $122 per ton. Curtailed supplies of ferrous recycled metals from the
countries of the former Soviet Union, growing worldwide demand and the weakness
of the U.S. dollar drove the volume and price increases. Asia, especially China
and Korea, continues to be the primary destination of export sales. In fiscal
2003, the Metals Recycling Business made export shipments aggregating 1.2
million tons, an increase of 89,000 tons (8%) compared with fiscal 2002.
Domestic third-party ferrous tonnage also increased by 38,000 tons (46%) to
120,000 tons. Sales to the Company's Steel Manufacturing Business increased 31%
to 535,000 tons due to increased demand in this business. Nonferrous revenues
increased $6.1 million (15%) to $47.8 million due primarily to higher average
prices. The average net nonferrous selling price in fiscal 2003 was $0.42 per
pound, an increase of $0.06 per pound from fiscal 2002.

The Steel Manufacturing Business' revenues increased $25.3 (15%) from revenues
recognized in the prior year to $191.9 million in fiscal 2003 primarily due to
higher average net selling prices and higher volumes for all major product
lines. The volume of finished steel products sold increased, along with the
average net selling price per ton, compared with fiscal 2002. Sales of finished
steel products were up 9% to 622,000 tons while the average net selling price
per ton increased $15 per ton (5%) to $291 per ton. The increase in the average
sales price per ton was primarily due to a higher valued product sales mix and
lower supplies of competing importing steel, which was partially attributed to
the weakness of the U.S. dollar. Also, towards the end of the fiscal 2003 second
quarter, the Company and other steel producers increased their selling prices
for rebar. Additionally, merchant bar selling prices have increased modestly to
adjust to the costs of production. The increase in sales volume was due to a 30%
increase in the volume of wire rod and a 6% increase in sales volume of rebar.
The higher wire rod volume was due to import duties imposed by the U.S.
Government in the spring of 2002 on certain wire rod products. The increase in
rebar volumes is primarily due to increased demand as wholesale customers bought
inventory ahead of the effective date of announced price increases.

As previously mentioned, the Auto Parts Business was acquired on February 14,
2003 and was considered a "step" acquisition allowing the consolidation of its
financial results as of the beginning of fiscal 2003. As such, revenues for
fiscal 2003 included $65.2 million related to the Auto Parts Business with no
comparable revenues being recognized for financial statement purposes in fiscal
2002. In order to aid the reader's understanding of the financial performance of
this segment, the pro forma fiscal 2002 revenues for the Auto Parts Business
were $58.3 million. The $6.9 million (12%) increase was primarily caused by an
increase in wholesale revenues driven by higher average sales prices for
scrapped auto bodies due to rising ferrous recycled metal prices. Wholesale
prices also benefited from the implementation of a new "core" distribution
center that aggregated production volumes and provided an improved venue to sell
these products to competing customers. Retail revenues were also up due to
growth in part sales and admissions pricing.

COST OF GOODS SOLD. Consolidated cost of goods sold increased $88.6 million
(27%) to $413.0 million and was 83% percent of revenues compared with 93% in
fiscal 2002. The decrease to 83% was primarily due to improved margins, coming
principally from higher selling prices, for all of the Company's business
segments.

Cost of goods sold for the Metals Recycling Business increased $56.0 million
(28%) to $255.9 million before intercompany eliminations. The cost of goods sold
as a percentage of revenues decreased from 90% for fiscal 2002 to 83% during
fiscal 2003, contributing to a $30.7 million increase in gross profit. This
increase in gross margin in fiscal 2003 was primarily attributable to higher
selling prices and higher sales volume, partially offset by higher prices paid
to suppliers of ferrous recycled metals and higher export freight rates,
resulting in an $18 per ton (18%) increase in the average ferrous metals cost of
sales per ton. Cost of sales per ferrous ton increased as higher selling prices
and higher demand for processed metal pushed up the purchase price the Company
paid for unprocessed metal. Competition from other recyclers for the purchase of
unprocessed metal was also a factor in the cost increases. The average export
freight rate climbed $4 per ton in fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal 2002.

Cost of goods sold for the Steel Manufacturing Business increased $21.8 million
(13%) to $191.0 million and decreased as a percentage of revenues from 102% in
fiscal 2002 to 100% in fiscal 2003. The decrease was due to a higher average
sales price per ton and lowered fixed cost per ton, due to larger production
volumes spreading the fixed costs over more tons produced, partially offset by
higher prices paid for scrap metal. Melt shop production increased 32% and
rolling mill production increased 16% compared with fiscal 2002. Fiscal 2002
production volumes were temporarily curtailed in order to reduce inventory to
better match it with customer demand. Average cost of sales per ton increased
$10 per ton (3%) compared with the prior fiscal year. As this increase in cost
of sales per ton was more than offset by the $15 per ton increase in average net
selling price, gross profit improved by $3.5 million (135%) in fiscal 2003
compared with fiscal 2002.

                                       31
<PAGE>

The Auto Parts Business' cost of sales was $0.5 million (1%) lower during fiscal
2003 as compared to the pro forma cost of sales for fiscal 2002. As a percentage
of revenues, cost of sales decreased from 63% to 55%. This improvement was due
to higher margins realized on wholesale sales partially offset by higher labor
costs.

IMPAIRMENT AND OTHER NONRECURRING CHARGES. In connection with the acquisition of
the Auto Parts Business, the Company conducted an environmental due diligence
investigation. Based upon new information obtained in this investigation, the
Joint Venture accrued $2.1 million in environmental liabilities in the second
quarter of fiscal 2003 for remediation costs at the Auto Parts Business's store
locations. No environmental proceedings are pending at any of these sites.

The Company recorded impairment and other nonrecurring charges of $7.1 million
in fiscal 2002. The Company recorded nonrecurring charges of $1.9 million for
the early termination of a fixed-price Alaska barge contract of affreightment
that management determined was not cost effective. The Alaska barge contract
charge included a $0.9 million write-off of a note receivable and a $1.0 million
payment to terminate the contract. Also, an impairment charge of $1.8 million
was recorded for the elimination of an unprofitable car-crushing business and an
impairment charge of $1.1 million was recorded for the closure of an
under-performing yard in Reno, Nevada. Nonrecurring charges of $1.5 million were
recorded for the loss on the early termination of two vessel charter contracts
with a related company. The Company terminated the leases in order to take
advantage of market rates which were $7 to $8 per ton lower than the all-in
contracted rates. Shipping cost savings as a result of the contract termination
totaled approximately $2.0 million. Additionally, a loss of $0.8 million was
recorded for the sale of a non-strategic steel forging business.

INCOME FROM JOINT VENTURES. The Company's joint ventures' revenues and results
of operations were as follows (in thousands):

                                                          Year Ended August 31,
                                                          ---------------------
                                                            2003         2002
                                                            ----         ----
Total revenues from external customers recognized by:
Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business:
         Processing                                      $ 616,958    $ 480,157
         Brokering                                         251,431      144,962
Joint Venture Suppliers of Metals                            8,877       61,762
                                                         ---------    ---------
                                                         $ 877,266    $ 686,881
                                                         =========    =========

Income from joint ventures recognized by the Company:
Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business          $  24,827    $  13,766
Joint Venture Suppliers of Metals                             (406)       5,624
                                                         ---------    ---------
                                                         $  24,421    $  19,390
                                                         =========    =========

The Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business predominantly sell recycled
ferrous and nonferrous metals. The increase in revenues recognized by these
joint ventures is attributable to higher average net ferrous selling prices.
Shipments of ferrous metal processed by the joint ventures were 3.3 million tons
for the year ended August

                                       32
<PAGE>

31, 2003 compared with 3.5 million tons in the prior year. The volume of ferrous
metal brokered by the joint ventures increased to 1.8 million tons in fiscal
2003 compared to 1.2 million tons in the prior year. The average net selling
price of ferrous recycled metal increased during that period to $118 per ton
from $90 per ton, predominantly due to strong demand from Asia, especially China
and Korea. These joint ventures also increased their sales margins by improving
operational efficiencies.

In fiscal 2003, the Company's share of income from Joint Ventures in the Metals
Recycling Business increased to $24.8 million due to higher average net selling
prices, increased margins and more efficient operations. The Company's joint
ventures with Hugo Neu Corporation, which earned the majority of the income,
instituted EVA concurrently with the Company in fiscal 2001. The use of EVA
coupled with management changes has continued to result in improved operational
efficiencies and increased profitability. Operating income in fiscal 2003 was
reduced by $2.2 million representing the Company's share of the JV LIFO
inventory adjustment compared with a reduction of $1.2 million in fiscal 2002.

Revenues of the Joint Venture Suppliers of Metals decreased by $52.9 million
from fiscal 2002 as compared to the fiscal 2003. Most of this decrease was
caused by the reclassification in fiscal 2003 of the Pick-N-Pull Joint Venture,
which is now consolidated and included as a new business segment, the Auto Parts
Business. Excluding the change caused by this reclassification, revenues
decreased $7.0 million during fiscal 2003 compared to last year due to lower
selling prices and lower demolition revenue. The Company's equity in income from
these Joint Ventures, excluding the impact of Pick-N-Pull, decreased $1.1
million primarily due to the slowdown in the U.S. economy.

SELLING AND COMMISSION EXPENSES. These expenses increased $2.4 million compared
with fiscal 2002 primarily due to an increase in export commission expense
caused from higher ferrous recycled metals export sales.

GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. Compared with fiscal 2002, general and
administrative expenses increased $6.2 million. The consolidation of the Auto
Parts Business represents $5.0 million of this increase. The remainder of this
increase is primarily due to increased bonus accruals directly related to the
improvement in the Company's EVA performance.

INTEREST EXPENSE. In fiscal 2003, interest expense decreased $0.5 million
compared with fiscal 2002 due to lower average interest rates and borrowings.
The Company's borrowings averaged $70.5 million in fiscal 2003 compared to $75.9
million in fiscal 2002. The average interest rate for fiscal 2003 was 2.1%
compared with 2.7% for fiscal 2002.

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSES. Other income and expenses decreased $0.7 million in
fiscal 2003 compared with fiscal 2002. The difference is principally due to the
addition of the Auto Parts Business and a harbor maintenance tax refund received
in fiscal 2002. In addition, this line item includes market value adjustments
for changes in investment performance for securities held in a trust for the
purpose of funding future non-qualified pension payments. The Company recognized
gains from the trust fund assets in the amount of $0.4 million in fiscal 2003
and losses of $0.4 million in fiscal 2002.

INCOME TAX PROVISION. The Company's effective rate of 27% was lower than the 35%
federal statutory tax rate for three primary reasons: (1) the implementation of
SFAS 142 has eliminated the amortization of goodwill, some of which had been
nondeductible; (2) export sales, which under Federal law are taxed at a lower
rate than domestic sales, have increased; and (3) net operating loss
carryforwards that accompanied an earlier acquisition continue to provide
benefit. The prior year's tax rate of 20% benefited from the two latter items,
as well as from the one-time recognition of California tax credits that had been
generated over the previous ten years.

As part of the 1996 acquisition of Proler International Corp. (Proler), the
Company acquired $31.4 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards
(NOLs). The Company recognized no immediate tax benefit for the NOLs. Instead,
the Company set up an offsetting $31.4 million valuation allowance because the
ultimate use of the NOLs were uncertain given the then-current federal tax law
proscription against applying the NOLs to any taxable income other than the
post-acquisition income generated by Proler. A change to federal tax law in
1999, however, has

                                       33
<PAGE>

allowed an annual $2.4 million of NOL to be applied to taxable income from all
sources, not just from Proler. Due to this change in tax law, the Company
released an annual $2.4 million from the valuation allowance, and recognized the
corresponding $0.8 million in tax benefit, in fiscal years 2001, 2002 and 2003.
This is a major reason why the Company's effective tax rates have been lower
than the statutory rates for those years. The remaining balance of unused NOLs,
which stands at $15.3 million as of August 31, 2003, will expire in fiscal years
2007 through 2012 if not used by then.

The Company also acquired $0.7 million of credits as part of the Proler
acquisition. As with the NOLs, a valuation allowance was set up to offset the
credits, the ultimate use of which has been made more likely by the subsequent
liberalization of federal tax law. No part of the valuation allowance has yet to
be released. The credits are not likely to be used until after the NOLs have
been used or expire. The credits can be carried forward indefinitely.

In fiscal 2002, the Company qualified for $2.1 million of Enterprise Zone tax
credits in the state of California. These credits can be used to offset
California state income taxes to the extent that each corporation in the
consolidated group has a California franchise (income) tax liability. Any
credits in excess of the tax liability can be carried forward indefinitely.
These credits, combined with the release of $2.4 million of valuation allowance
pertaining to the NOLs, were major reasons the Company's effective tax rate of
14% for fiscal 2002 was well below the statutory rate of 34%.


FISCAL 2002 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2001
- -----------------------------------

REVENUES. Consolidated revenues increased $27.8 million (9%) to $350.6 million
for fiscal 2002 compared with fiscal 2001. Revenues for the Metals Recycling
Business increased due to higher selling prices and volumes as worldwide demand
for ferrous metals strengthened through the year. Revenues for the Steel
Manufacturing Business were slightly lower primarily due to lower average net
selling prices partially offset by increased sales volumes.

The Metals Recycling Business generated revenues of $221.8 million, before
intercompany eliminations, an increase of $16.6 million (8%). Ferrous revenues
increased $17.9 million (12%) to $173.5 million as a result of an increase in
tons sold and higher average selling prices net of shipping cost (average net
selling prices). Ferrous volumes increased 75,000 tons (5%) and the average net
selling price of ferrous recycled metal increased $3 to $94 per ton (3%).
Diminished supplies of ferrous recycled metals from the countries of the former
Soviet Union and growing worldwide demand drove the volume and price increases.
Asia, especially China and Korea, continued to be the primary destination of
export sales. In fiscal 2002, the Metals Recycling Business made export
shipments aggregating 1,068,000 tons, an increase of 291,000 tons (37%) compared
with fiscal 2001. Because of the continued soft United States economy, domestic
third-party ferrous tonnage decreased 57,000 ton (41%) to 82,000 tons. Sales to
the Company's Steel Manufacturing Business decreased 28% to 407,000 tons due to
production curtailments in this business. Nonferrous revenues decreased $1.3
million (3%) to $41.7 million due to a corresponding reduction in sales volume.
The average net nonferrous selling price in fiscal 2002 was $0.36 per pound, a
decline of $0.01 per pound from fiscal 2001.

The Steel Manufacturing Business recognized revenues of $166.6 million in fiscal
2002, a decrease of 1% from revenues recognized in the prior year. The volume of
finished steel products sold increased, but the average net selling price per
ton decreased compared with fiscal 2001. Sales of finished steel products were
up 4% to 569,000 tons while the average net selling price per ton decreased $16
per ton (5%) to $276 per ton, a record low. The decrease in sales revenue was
primarily due to lower average net selling prices for all major product lines
which were partially offset by the increase in sales volumes. The decrease in
the average sales price per ton was primarily due to the sluggish United States
economy and weak end user demand, continuing competition from lower cost steel
imports and a shift in product mix from merchant bar to wire rod. The increase
in sales volume was due to a 31% greater sales volume of wire rod, which was
partially offset by a decline in the sales volume of merchant bar. The higher
wire rod volume was due to additional demand by a major customer. Tariffs on
selected imported steel products enacted in March and April 2002 by the
International Trade Commission (ITC) under Section 201 of the 1974 Trade Act did
not produce any significant price benefits.

                                       34
<PAGE>

COST OF GOODS SOLD. Consolidated cost of goods increased $33.5 million (11%) to
$324.4 million and was 93% percent of revenues compared with 90% in fiscal 2001.
The increase to 93% was primarily due to eroded margins for the Steel
Manufacturing Business. Gross profit decreased $5.6 million (18%) to $26.2
million.

Cost of goods sold for the Metals Recycling Business increased $18.4 million
(10%) to $199.9 million before intercompany eliminations. The cost of goods sold
as a percentage of revenues increased from 88% for fiscal 2001 to 90% during
fiscal 2002. Gross profit increased $1.8 million compared with fiscal 2001. This
increase in gross margin in fiscal 2002 was primarily attributable to higher
selling prices and higher sales volume, partially offset by higher prices paid
to suppliers for ferrous recycled metals, resulting in a $5 per ton (5%)
increase in the average ferrous metals cost of sales per ton. Cost of sales per
ferrous ton increased as higher selling prices and higher demand for processed
metal pushed up the purchase price the Company paid for unprocessed metal. Lower
shipping costs per ton partially offset the purchase price increases.
Competition from other recyclers for the purchase of unprocessed metal was also
a factor in the cost increases.

Cost of goods sold for the Steel Manufacturing Business increased $9.8 million
(6%) to $169.2 million and increased as a percentage of revenues from 95% in
fiscal 2001 to over 100% in fiscal 2002. The increase was due to higher fixed
costs being spread over fewer production tons as mill curtailments that began in
August 2001 continued throughout fiscal 2002. Melt shop production fell 29% and
rolling mill production fell 11% compared with fiscal 2001. Also, contributing
to the increase was a 15% rise in energy costs. Energy cost increased due to the
2001 Western energy shortage which increased contracted power rates. Average
cost of sales per ton increased $4 per ton (2%) compared with the prior fiscal
year. This increased cost of sales per ton, combined with the $16 per ton
reduction in average net selling price, resulted in a decrease in gross profit
of $10.8 million (131%) in fiscal 2002 compared with fiscal 2001.

IMPAIRMENT AND OTHER NONRECURRING CHARGES. The Company recorded impairment and
other nonrecurring charges of $7.1 million in fiscal 2002. The Company recorded
nonrecurring charges of $1.9 million for the early termination of a fixed-price
Alaska barge contract of affreightment that management determined was not cost
effective. The Alaska barge contract charge included a $0.9 million write-off of
a note receivable and a $1.0 million payment to terminate the contract. Also, an
impairment charge of $1.8 million was recorded for the elimination of an
unprofitable car-crushing business and an impairment charge of $1.1 million was
recorded for the closure of an under-performing yard in Reno, Nevada. The
Company now sublets the Reno facility and leases the equipment to a third party
that sells its recycled metal output to the Company. Nonrecurring charges of
$1.5 million were recorded for the loss on the early termination of two vessel
charter contracts with a related company. The Company terminated the leases in
order to take advantage of market rates which were $7 to $8 per ton lower than
the all-in contracted rates. Shipping cost savings as a result of the contract
termination totaled approximately $2.0 million. Additionally, a loss of $0.8
million was recorded for the sale of a non-strategic steel forging business.

A number of the charges were a direct result of the Company's 2001
implementation of Economic Value Added (EVA) which is a tool used to measure
financial performance and acceptable returns on investment as well as compensate
management on the change in EVA performance. Since implementing EVA, the Company
has re-analyzed the business performance and related outlook for many of its
assets. The result of these reviews, using the EVA tool, led to many operational
and management changes in the Company's business.

                                       35
<PAGE>

INCOME FROM JOINT VENTURES. The Company's joint ventures' revenues and results
of operations were as follows (in thousands):

                                                           Year Ended August 31,
                                                           ---------------------
                                                              2002        2001
                                                           ---------   ---------
Total revenues from external customers recognized by:
Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business:
         Processing                                        $ 480,157   $ 447,689
         Brokering                                           144,962     108,274
Joint Venture Suppliers of Metals                             61,762      53,381
                                                           ---------   ---------
                                                           $ 686,881   $ 609,344
                                                           =========   =========
Income from joint ventures recognized by the Company:
Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business            $  13,766   $   6,549
Joint Venture Suppliers of Metals                              5,624       3,288
                                                           ---------   ---------
                                                           $  19,390   $   9,837
                                                           =========   =========

The Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business predominantly sell recycled
ferrous and nonferrous metals. The increase in revenues recognized by these
joint ventures was attributable to higher average net ferrous selling prices and
an increase in tonnage shipped. Shipments of ferrous metal processed by the
joint ventures increased to 3.5 million tons for the year ended August 31, 2002
from 3.1 million tons in the prior year. The average net selling price of
ferrous recycled metal increased during that period to $90 per ton from $86 per
ton, predominantly due to strong demand from Asia, especially China and Korea.
These joint ventures also increased their sales margins by improving operational
efficiencies.

In fiscal 2002, the Company's share of income from Joint Ventures in the Metals
Recycling Business increased to $13.8 million due to increased sales volume,
higher average net selling prices, increased margins and more efficient
operations. The Company's joint ventures with Hugo Neu Corporation, which earned
the majority of the income, instituted EVA concurrently with the Company in
fiscal 2001. The use of EVA has continued to result in improved operational
efficiencies and increased profitability. Operating income in fiscal 2002 was
reduced by $1.2 million representing the Company's share of the JV LIFO
inventory adjustment compared with a benefit of $0.9 million in fiscal 2001.
Operating income in fiscal 2002 also benefited by $0.9 million representing the
Company's share of a nonrecurring gain on sale of JV property.

Both revenues and income from the Joint Venture Suppliers of Metal increased
from fiscal 2001 to fiscal 2002 primarily due to increased sales by the
Company's self-service auto dismantling joint venture. Increased sales prices,
more efficient operations, and lower interest costs drove the revenue growth and
income improvements.


SELLING AND COMMISSION EXPENSES. These expenses increased $0.7 million compared
with fiscal 2001 primarily due to an increase in export commission expense
caused from higher ferrous recycled metals export sales.

GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. Compared with fiscal 2001, general and
administrative expenses increased $1.4 million primarily due to a $1.0 million
increase in wages as a result of annual merit increases and bonus accruals
related to the Company's EVA performance and a $0.4 million in increased
insurance expense due to adverse insurance market conditions since September 11,
2001.

INTEREST EXPENSE. In fiscal 2002, interest expense decreased $2.8 million
compared with fiscal 2001 due to lower average borrowings and lower average
interest rates. The Company's borrowings averaged $75.9 million in fiscal 2002
compared to $81.5 million in fiscal 2001. The decrease in average borrowings
reflected improved cash flow as a result of substantial decreases in inventory
during fiscal 2002. The average interest rate for fiscal 2002 was 2.7% compared
with 5.8% for fiscal 2001.

                                       36
<PAGE>

OTHER INCOME. Other income decreased $1.2 million in fiscal 2002 compared with
fiscal 2001 primarily due to a $1.6 million decrease in interest income as a
result of lower interest rates charged on variable interest rate advances and
notes to joint venture businesses. In addition, this line item includes market
value adjustments for changes in investment performance for securities held in a
trust for the purpose of funding future non-qualified pension payments. During
fiscal 2002 and 2001, the Company recognized losses from the trust fund assets
in the amount of $0.7 million and $0.4 million, respectively.

INCOME TAX PROVISION. As part of the 1996 acquisition of Proler International
Corp. (Proler), the Company acquired $31.4 million of federal net operating loss
carryforwards (NOLs). Prior to fiscal 2000, federal tax law placed limitations
on the source of the income that could be offset by the NOLs. Accordingly, the
Company was not able to record the potential tax benefits from the NOLs because
of the lack of certainty in being able to realize these benefits. In fiscal
2000, a change in federal tax law allowed the Company to use the NOLs to offset
taxable income from all sources, subject to a limit of $2.4 million per year.
During fiscal 2001, the Company continued to benefit from the use of $2.4
million of NOLs, which was one of the primary reasons the effective rate was 30%
as compared to the statutory rate of 34%.

In fiscal 2002, it was determined that the Company qualified for $2.1 million of
Enterprise Zone tax credits in the state of California. These credits can be
used to offset California state income taxes to the extent that each corporation
in the consolidated group has a California franchise (income) tax liability. Any
credits in excess of the tax liability can be carried forward indefinitely. The
combination of NOLs and Enterprise Zone tax credits made the Company's effective
tax rate 14% for fiscal 2002 as compared with a statutory rate of 34%.

As noted above, Federal income tax law limits the Company's use of NOLs to $2.4
million per year. Unused NOLs may be carried forward and used in subsequent
fiscal years, though they will ultimately expire in fiscal years 2007 through
2012, if not used by then. Subject to the annual limit, there remains at August
31, 2002 $17.7 million of Proler NOLs that may be used in future years before
they expire.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES.

For fiscal 2003, cash generated by operations was $40.9 million, compared to
$36.4 million last year. The increase in cash flow provided by operations was
primarily the result of improved operating profits. In fiscal 2002, inventories
declined $31.2 million, generating cash flow of this amount.

Capital expenditures totaled $21.8 million, $9.6 million, and $9.3 million for
fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The increase was due primarily
to costs associated with dock renovation and improvement projects at the
Company's Portland, Oregon and Oakland, California recycling facilities.

As a result of acquisitions completed in both the current and prior years, the
Company had environmental liabilities that aggregated $21.8 million as of August
31, 2003. The Company expects significant future cash outlays as it incurs the
actual costs relating to the remediation of such environmental liabilities.

On May 30, 2003, the Company entered into an agreement to refinance its
revolving bank credit facility. The new facility is unsecured, matures in May
2006, and provides for up to $150 million of credit availability. The facility's
interest rates vary. The Company also has an additional unsecured line of credit
of $20 million, which is uncommitted. The Company's debt agreements have certain
restrictive covenants. As of August 31, 2003, the Company was in compliance with
such covenants and had aggregate bank borrowings outstanding of $79 million.

In July 2002, the Company's metals recycling joint ventures with Hugo Neu
Corporation entered into a $70 million revolving credit facility ("JV Credit
Facility") with a group of banks for working capital and general credit
purposes. Prior to that time, the joint ventures' working capital and other cash
needs had been met by advances provided equally by the Company and Hugo Neu
Corporation. The JV Credit Facility expires in July 2004 and is secured by

                                       37
<PAGE>

the inventory and receivables of the joint venture businesses. The Company is
not a guarantor of the JV Credit Facility. The JV Credit Facility has a number
of covenants and restrictions, including restrictions on the level of
distributions to the joint venture partners. As of August 31, 2003, the joint
ventures were in compliance with such covenants. Borrowings under the JV Credit
Facility totaled $30 million at August 31, 2003.

Because the interest rates under the JV Credit Facility are higher than those
obtained by the Company, management generally considers it prudent for the joint
ventures to reduce the facility balance before remitting cash to the joint
venture partners. The joint venture agreements allow for distributions to the
joint venture partners. No such distributions were declared for fiscal 2003.
Instead, cash flow from operations was primarily used to fund working capital
and capital expenditures. As such, cash received from joint ventures in fiscal
2003 was lower than in fiscal 2002.

The Company has certain contractual obligations and commercial commitments to
make future payments. The following table summarizes these future obligations
and commitments as of August 31, 2003 (in thousands):

                                       Less than      1-3       4-5      After 5
                               Total     1 Year      Years     Years      Years
                             --------   --------   --------   -------   --------
Long-term debt(1)            $ 87,265   $    220   $ 79,315   $    30   $  7,700
Operating leases(2)           130,018      7,021     11,555     7,520    103,922
Letters of Credit               1,993      1,993
JV Credit Facility (50%)(3)    15,000     15,000
                             --------   --------   --------   -------   --------
Total                        $234,276   $ 24,234   $ 90,870   $ 7,550   $111,622
                             ========   ========   ========   =======   ========

(1)  The Company has a $150 million credit facility with a group of banks for
     working capital and other general purposes. The facility expires in May
     2006.

(2)  The Company's operating leases increased by $14.7 million as a result of
     the acquisition of the Auto Parts Business.

(3)  This disclosure assumes that if the JV Credit Facility is not renewed or
     refinanced upon expiration, the Company and Hugo Neu Corporation would
     restore their previous arrangement under which each funded one-half of the
     joint ventures' cash needs.

Pursuant to a stock repurchase program, the Company is authorized to repurchase
up to 3 million shares of its stock when the market price of the Company's stock
is not reflective of management's opinion of an appropriate valuation of the
stock. Management believes that repurchasing shares under these conditions
enhances shareholder value and helps the Company manage its targeted capital
structure. During fiscal 2003, the Company made no share repurchases. As of
August 31, 2003, a total of 1.3 million shares had been purchased under this
program.

The Company believes that the current cash balance, internally generated funds
and existing credit facilities will provide adequate financing for capital
expenditures, working capital, joint ventures, stock repurchases, debt service
requirements and future environmental obligations for the next year. In the
longer term, the Company may seek to finance business expansion with additional
borrowing arrangements or additional equity financing.

FACTORS THAT COULD AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS. This Form 10-K, including Item 1 of
Part 1and Items 7 and 7(a) of Part II, contains forward-looking statements,
within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E
of the Securities Act of 1934, that are made pursuant to the safe harbor
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. One can
generally identify these forward-looking statements because they contain
"expect," "believe," "anticipate," "estimate," "plans," and other words which
convey a similar meaning. One can also identify these statements as they do not
relate strictly to historical or current facts. Examples of factors affecting
Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.'s wholly-owned operations and its joint
ventures (the Company) that could cause actual results to differ materially are
the following:

                                       38
<PAGE>

Cyclicality and General Market Considerations: Selling prices for recycled
metals are highly cyclical in nature and subject to worldwide economic
conditions. In addition, the cost and availability of recycled metals are
subject to volatile supply and demand conditions beyond the Company's control,
resulting in periodic fluctuations in recycled metals prices. While the Company
attempts to maintain margins by responding to changing recycled metals selling
prices through adjustments to its metals purchase prices, the Company's ability
to do so is limited by competitive factors as well as the impact of lower prices
on the volume of recycled metal available to the Company. Moreover, increases in
recycled metals prices can adversely affect the operating results of the
Company's Steel Manufacturing Business because increases in steel prices
generally lag increases in ferrous recycled metals prices.

The steel industry is also highly cyclical in nature and sensitive to general
economic conditions. Future economic downturns or a stagnant economy may
adversely affect the performance of the Company.

The Company expects to continue to experience seasonal fluctuations in its
revenues and net income. Revenues can fluctuate significantly quarter to quarter
due to factors such as the seasonal slowdown in the construction industry, which
is an important buyer of the Company's finished steel products. The timing and
extent of the slowdown is also dependent on the weather.

Another factor which may affect revenues relates to the seasonal reduction in
demand from foreign customers who tend to reduce their finished steel production
during the summer months to offset higher energy costs. Also, severe weather
conditions may affect the Company's global market conditions.

The Company makes a number of large ferrous recycled metals shipments to foreign
steel producers each year. Customer requirements, shipping schedules and other
factors limit the Company's control over the timing of these shipments.
Variations in the number of foreign shipments from quarter to quarter will
result in fluctuations in quarterly revenues and earnings. The Company's
expectations regarding ferrous metal sales prices and volumes, as well as
earnings, are based in part on a number of assumptions (for example,
uncertainties relating to customer orders, metal availability, estimated freight
rates, cost and volume of inventory yet to be processed, and production output,
etc.).

The Auto Parts Business experiences modest seasonal fluctuations in demand. The
retail stores are open to the elements. During periods of extreme temperatures
and precipitation, customers tend to delay their purchases and wait for milder
conditions. As a result, retail sales are generally higher during the spring and
fall of each fiscal year and lower in the winter and summer months.

Competition: The recycled metals industry is highly competitive, with the volume
of purchases and sales subject to a number of competitive factors, principally
price. The Company has competition from both large and numerous smaller
companies in its markets for the purchase of recyclable metals. The Company
competes with a number of domestic and foreign recycled metals processors for
sales to foreign customers. In the recent past, lower cost ferrous recycled
metals supplies from the countries of the former Soviet Union have adversely
affected the Company's ferrous recycled metals selling prices and volumes.
Currently, those countries have export tariffs and some outright export bans
which have significantly reduced their export volumes and lowered the worldwide
supply of ferrous recycled metals These tariffs and bans have had a positive
effect on the Company's selling prices and volumes. However, the Company cannot
predict when or if the countries of the former Soviet Union will change their
export policies and what effect, if any, such changes might have on the
Company's operating results.

The domestic steel industry also is highly competitive. Steel prices can be
highly volatile and price is a significant competitive factor. The Company
competes with several steel producers in the Western United States for sales of
its products. In recent years, the Company has experienced significant foreign
competition, which is sometimes subsidized by large government agencies. There
can be no assurance that such competition will not increase in the future. In
March and April 2002, the ITC imposed tariffs on imported steel, under Section
201 of the 1974 Trade Act, to temporarily aid the domestic steel industry. In
2003, these tariffs were found to be in violation of global trade rules by a
World Trade Organization ("WTO") dispute panel. The WTO has not issued a final
report and it is expected that the U.S. Government would appeal the decision. To
date, however, those tariffs have not significantly benefited selling prices for
finished steel products on the West Coast of the United States. In the spring of
2002, the

                                       39
<PAGE>

U.S. Government imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties against wire rod
products from eight foreign countries. These duties have assisted the Company in
increasing sales of wire rod products; any expiration or termination of the
duties could have a corresponding adverse effect. In December 2002, Nucor
Corporation assumed ownership of the assets of Birmingham Steel Corp., a steel
manufacturing business in Seattle, Washington. Nucor Corporation, the leader in
setting prices in the Company's markets, has a significant share of the West
Coast finished steel market and is considered an aggressive competitor. The long
term impact, if any, that Nucor's ownership and operation of Birmingham Steel's
Seattle facility will have on the Steel Manufacturing Business' and the Metals
Recycling Business' operating results cannot be determined at this time.
Additionally, until recently the Steel Manufacturing Business also competed with
the North Star mill in Kingman, Arizona, which was sold to Nucor. That facility
is currently idle, but any future start-up of its operations could impact the
Company's market.

Joint Ventures: The Company has significant investments in joint venture
companies. The Company does not manage the day-to-day activities of these
businesses. As a result, it does not have the same ability to control the
operations and related financial results as it does with its consolidated
businesses. These businesses are, however, affected by many of the same risk
factors mentioned above. Therefore, it is difficult to predict the financial
results of these businesses. Additionally, two of these joint ventures continue
to use LIFO inventory accounting, which tends to defer income taxes.
Historically, the effects of LIFO adjustments are difficult to predict.

Energy Supply: The Company and its joint ventures utilize various energy sources
to operate their facilities. In particular, electricity and natural gas
currently represent approximately 10% of the cost of steel manufactured for the
Company's Steel Manufacturing Business. The Steel Manufacturing Business
purchases electric power under a long-term contract from McMinnville Water &
Light (McMinnville) which in turn relies on the Bonneville Power Administration
(BPA). Historically, these contracts have had favorable prices and are long-term
in nature. The Company has a five-year contract that expires in September 2006.
On October 1, 2001, the BPA increased its electricity rates due to increased
demand on the West Coast and lower supplies. This increase was in the form of a
Cost Recovery Adjustment Clause (CRAC) added to BPA's contract with
McMinnville. The CRAC is an additional monthly surcharge on selected power
charges to recover costs associated with buying higher priced power during the
West Coast power shortage. Because the BPA can adjust the CRAC every six
months, it is not possible to predict future rate changes.

The Steel Manufacturing Business also has a contract for natural gas. The
current contract expires on October 31, 2003 and a new contract has been signed
which expires October 31, 2004. The new contract price has increased by 15%.

If the Company is unable to negotiate favorable terms of electricity, natural
gas and other energy sources, this could adversely affect the performance of the
Company.

Tax Laws: The Company has been able to reduce its effective tax rate below the
federal statutory tax rate for each of the last three years by using a
combination of Net Operating Loss Carryforwards (NOLs), State of California
Enterprise Zone tax credits and Foreign Sales Corporations or Extraterritorial
Income Exclusions. The Company cannot predict how future tax law changes might
affect the Company's effective tax rate.

Currency Fluctuations: Demand from the Company's foreign customers is partially
driven by foreign currency fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar. Recent
weakness of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies has been a
significant factor in the increases in recycled metals prices over the last
year, as well as resulted in increasing the cost of certain finished steel
imports. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the
competitiveness of the Company's products in the markets in which the Company
competes. The Company has no control over such fluctuations and, as such, these
dynamics could affect the Company's revenues and earnings.

Shipping and Handling: Both the Metals Recycling Business and the Steel
Manufacturing Business often rely on third parties to handle and transport their
products to end users in a timely manner. The cost to transport the products, in
particular by ocean freight, can be affected by circumstances over which the
Company has no control such as fuel prices, political events, governmental
regulations on transportation and changes in market rates due to carrier
availability.

                                       40
<PAGE>

Insurance: The cost of the Company's insurance is affected not only by its own
loss experience but also by cycles in the insurance market. The Company cannot
predict future events and circumstances which could cause rates to materially
change such as war, terrorist activities or natural disasters.

Auto Parts Business: The Auto Parts Business competes with both full-service and
self-service auto dismantlers as well as larger well financed retail auto parts
businesses for retail customers. Periodically, the Auto Parts Business increases
prices, which may affect customer flow and buying patterns. The ultimate impact
of these changes cannot be predicted. Also, the business competes for its
automobile inventory with other dismantlers, used car dealers, auto auctions and
metal recyclers. Inventory costs can fluctuate significantly depending on market
conditions and prices for recycled metal.

The Auto Parts Business is subject to a number of other risks that could prevent
it from maintaining or exceeding its current levels of profitability, such as
volatile supply and demand conditions affecting prices and volumes in the
markets for its products, services and raw materials; environmental issues;
local and worldwide economic conditions; increased competition; and business
integration and management transition issues.

One should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all factors
that could cause actual results to differ from the Company's forward-looking
statements. Consequently, the reader should not consider any such list to be a
complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Further, the Company
does not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statement.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company periodically uses derivative financial instruments to limit exposure
to changes in interest rates. Because such derivative instruments are used
solely as hedges and not for speculative trading purposes, they do not represent
incremental risk to the Company. For further discussion of derivative financial
instruments, refer to "Fair Value of Financial Instruments" in the Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Item 8, Note 1 of the "Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements".















                                       41
<PAGE>

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


        Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

                                                                            Page

        Report of Independent Accountants....................................43

        Consolidated Balance Sheets - August 31, 2003 and 2002...............44

        Consolidated Statement of Operations - Years ended
               August 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001................................45

        Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity - Years ended
               August 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001................................46

        Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows - Years ended
               August 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001................................47

        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...........................48

        Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts......................73

        Report of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule....74


All other schedules and exhibits are omitted, as the information is not
applicable or is not required.



                                       42
<PAGE>

                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, of shareholders' equity and of cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Schnitzer
Steel Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries at August 31, 2003 and 2002, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended August 31, 2003, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards
generally accepted in the United States of America, which require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

As discussed in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements,
effective September 1, 2002 the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.


PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
Portland, Oregon
October 1, 2003




                                       43
<PAGE>

                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                    (in thousands, except per share amounts)

<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                                          August 31,
                                                                                 ----------------------------
                                                                                    2003              2002
                                                                                 ----------        ----------
<S>                                                                              <C>               <C>
                                                    Assets
                                                    ------
Current assets:
       Cash                                                                      $    1,687        $   32,974
       Accounts receivable, less allowance for
          doubtful accounts of $712 and $1,005                                       38,428            31,627
       Accounts receivable from related parties                                         555               813
       Inventories (Note 2)                                                          61,143            57,917
       Deferred income taxes (Note 8)                                                 4,524             3,966
       Prepaid expenses and other                                                     7,400             4,410
                                                                                 ----------        ----------
              Total current assets                                                  113,737           131,707

Net property, plant and equipment (Note 4)                                          141,224           111,759

Other assets:
       Investment in and advances to joint venture partnerships (Note 12)           119,066            96,440
       Notes receivable less current portion (Note 9)                                 1,565            27,067
       Goodwill                                                                     107,209            35,754
       Intangibles and other                                                          5,093             2,279
                                                                                 ----------        ----------

Total assets                                                                     $  487,894        $  405,006
                                                                                 ==========        ==========

                                     Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity
                                     ------------------------------------
Current liabilities:
       Current portion of long-term debt (Note 6)                                $      220        $   60,220
       Accounts payable                                                              21,537            18,205
       Accrued payroll liabilities                                                    8,896             5,887
       Current portion of environmental liabilities (Note 7)                          4,639             3,030
       Other accrued liabilities                                                      6,004             5,014
                                                                                 ----------        ----------
               Total current liabilities                                             41,296            92,356

Deferred income taxes (Note 8)                                                       33,093            30,860

Long-term debt, less current portion (Note 6)                                        87,045             8,305

Environmental liabilities, net of current portion (Note 7)                           17,139            18,045

Other long-term liabilities (Note 10)                                                 2,704             2,492

Minority interests                                                                    3,620              --

Commitments and contingencies (Notes 4, 7 and 9)                                       --                --

Shareholders' equity:
       Preferred stock--20,000 shares authorized, none issued                          --                --
       Class A common stock--75,000 shares $1.00 par value
           authorized, 12,445 and 5,025 shares issued and outstanding                12,445             5,025
       Class B common stock--25,000 shares $1.00 par value
           authorized, 7,061 and 4,180 shares issued and outstanding                  7,061             4,180
       Additional paid-in capital                                                   104,249            96,074
       Retained earnings                                                            179,242           147,669
                                                                                 ----------        ----------
               Total shareholders' equity                                           302,997           252,948
                                                                                 ----------        ----------

Total liabilities and shareholders' equity                                       $  487,894        $  405,006
                                                                                 ==========        ==========
</TABLE>

         The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement

                                      44
<PAGE>

                         SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                     (in thousands, except per share amounts)

<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                                Year Ended August 31,
                                                                   ------------------------------------------------
                                                                      2003               2002               2001
                                                                   ----------         ----------         ----------
<S>                                                                <C>                <C>                <C>
Revenues                                                           $  496,866         $  350,648         $  322,831

Cost of goods sold and other operating expenses                       413,043            324,435            290,974
Impairment and other non-recurring charges                              2,100              7,100               --
Selling and commission expenses                                         5,311              2,863              2,199
General and administrative expenses                                    32,048             25,815             24,426
                                                                   ----------         ----------         ----------

Income (loss) from wholly-owned operations                             44,364             (9,565)             5,232

Income from joint ventures (Note 12)                                   24,421             19,390              9,837
                                                                   ----------         ----------         ----------

Income from operations                                                 68,785              9,825             15,069

Other income (expense):
        Interest expense                                               (1,778)            (2,314)            (5,120)
        Other income (expense)                                           (540)               136              1,371
                                                                   ----------         ----------         ----------

                                                                       (2,318)            (2,178)            (3,749)
                                                                   ----------         ----------         ----------

Income before cumulative effect of change in
        accounting principle, income taxes, minority
        interests and pre-acquisition interests                        66,467              7,647             11,320

Income tax provision (Note 8)                                         (17,946)            (1,094)            (3,401)
                                                                   ----------         ----------         ----------

Income before cumulative effect of change in
        accounting principle, minority interests
        and pre-acquisition interests                                  48,521              6,553              7,919

Minority interests, net of tax                                         (1,824)              --                 --

Pre-acquisition interests, net of tax                                  (2,513)              --                 --
                                                                   ----------         ----------         ----------

Income before cumulative effect of change in
        accounting principle                                           44,184              6,553              7,919

Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                      (983)              --                 --
                                                                   ----------         ----------         ----------

Net income                                                         $   43,201         $    6,553         $    7,919
                                                                   ==========         ==========         ==========

Net income per share - basic:
        Income before cumulative effect of change
              in accounting principle                              $     2.37         $     0.36         $     0.42
        Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle             (0.05)              --                 --
                                                                   ----------         ----------         ----------

        Net income                                                 $     2.32         $     0.36         $     0.42
                                                                   ==========         ==========         ==========

Net income per share - diluted:
        Income before cumulative effect of change
              in accounting principle                              $     2.25         $     0.35         $     0.42
        Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle             (0.05)              --                 --
                                                                   ----------         ----------         ----------

        Net income                                                 $     2.20         $     0.35         $     0.42
                                                                   ==========         ==========         ==========
</TABLE>

         The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement

                                      45
<PAGE>

                                       SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                                (in thousands)

<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                           Class A                     Class B
                                         Common Stock                Common Stock          Additional
                                    -----------------------     ----------------------       Paid-in      Retained
                                     Shares        Amount        Shares        Amount        Capital      Earnings       Total
                                    ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------    ---------
<S>                                 <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>
Balance at August 31, 2000              5,389     $   5,389         4,312     $   4,312     $ 101,840     $ 136,889    $ 248,430

Class B common stock converted
    to Class A common stock                 8             8            (8)           (8)                                    --
Class A common stock repurchased         (506)         (506)                                   (6,185)                    (6,691)
Class A common stock issued                 5             5                                        54                         59
Stock options issued                                                                              214                        214
Net income                                                                                                    7,919        7,919
Dividends paid                                                                                               (1,862)      (1,862)
                                    ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------    ---------

Balance at August 31, 2001              4,896         4,896         4,304         4,304        95,923       142,946      248,069

Class B common stock converted
    to Class A common stock               124           124          (124)         (124)                                    --
Class A common stock repurchased          (99)          (99)                                   (1,157)                    (1,256)
Class A common stock issued               104           104                                     1,308                      1,412
Net income                                                                                                    6,553        6,553
Dividends paid                                                                                               (1,830)      (1,830)
                                    ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------    ---------

Balance at August 31, 2002              5,025         5,025         4,180         4,180        96,074       147,669      252,948

Class B common stock converted
    to Class A common stock               635           635          (635)         (635)                                    --
Class A common stock issued               547           547                                     8,175                      8,722
Net income                                                                                                   43,201       43,201
Stock dividend                          6,238         6,238         3,516         3,516                      (9,754)        --
Cash dividends paid                                                                                          (1,874)      (1,874)
                                    ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------     ---------    ---------

Balance at August 31, 2003             12,445     $  12,445         7,061     $   7,061     $ 104,249     $ 179,242    $ 302,997
                                    =========     =========     =========     =========     =========     =========    =========
</TABLE>

         The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement

                                      46
<PAGE>

                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in thousands)


<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                              Year Ended August 31,
                                                                 ------------------------------------------------
                                                                    2003               2002               2001
                                                                 ----------         ----------         ----------
<S>                                                              <C>                <C>                <C>
Operations:
Net income                                                       $   43,201         $    6,553         $    7,919
Noncash items included in income:
      Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle               983               --                 --
      Depreciation and amortization                                  19,441             18,631             18,742
      Minority and pre-acquisition interests                          5,942               --                 --
      Deferred income taxes                                           1,791                692              1,787
      Equity in earnings of joint ventures                          (24,421)           (19,390)            (9,837)
      Impairment and other non-recurring charges                      2,100              6,100
      (Gain) loss on disposal of assets                                 (93)                85               (304)
Cash provided (used) by changes in working capital:
      Accounts receivable                                            (6,169)            (8,675)             3,813
      Inventories                                                    (1,240)            31,174            (13,008)
      Prepaid expenses and other                                     (4,411)               426               (843)
      Accounts payable                                                2,802              1,166             (1,356)
      Accrued liabilities                                             1,317             (1,768)              (135)
      Environmental liabilities                                      (1,998)              (966)              (492)
      Other assets and liabilities                                    1,692              2,357              2,362
                                                                 ----------         ----------         ----------

Net cash provided by operations                                      40,937             36,385              8,648
                                                                 ----------         ----------         ----------

Investing:
Capital expenditures                                                (21,796)            (9,569)            (9,297)
Investments in subsidiaries                                         (64,923)              --                 --
Cash received from joint ventures                                       286            145,060            167,354
Cash paid to joint ventures                                          (3,272)          (113,703)          (160,193)
Proceeds from sale of assets                                            585                 39                882
                                                                 ----------         ----------         ----------

Net cash (used) provided by investing                               (89,120)            21,827             (1,254)
                                                                 ----------         ----------         ----------

Financing:
Repurchase of Class A common stock                                     --               (1,256)            (6,691)
Issuance of Class A common stock                                      8,722              1,412                273
Distributions to minority and pre-acquisition interests              (4,292)              --                 --
Cash dividends declared and paid                                     (1,874)            (1,830)            (1,862)
Increase (decrease) in long-term debt                                19,000            (23,900)               356
Decrease in other long-term debt                                     (4,660)            (1,541)              --
                                                                 ----------         ----------         ----------

Net cash provided (used) by financing                                16,896            (27,115)            (7,924)
                                                                 ----------         ----------         ----------

Net (decrease) increase in cash                                     (31,287)            31,097               (530)

Cash at beginning of year                                            32,974              1,877              2,407
                                                                 ----------         ----------         ----------

Cash at end of year                                              $    1,687         $   32,974         $    1,877
                                                                 ==========         ==========         ==========
</TABLE>

         The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement

                                      47
<PAGE>

                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1 - NATURE OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:


NATURE OF BUSINESS

Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. (the Company) operates a metal recycling
business, a self-service used auto parts business, and, through its Cascade
Steel Rolling Mills, Inc. subsidiary, a mini-mill steel manufacturing business.
The Company's wholly-owned recycling facilities are located in Alaska,
Washington, Oregon and California. Additionally, through joint ventures, the
Company participates in the management of additional metals processing and
recycling businesses in Arizona, California, Connecticut, Idaho, Illinois,
Indiana, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode
Island, Texas and Utah.

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries. The Company, through
subsidiaries, holds a 50% interest in nine joint ventures and a 30% interest in
one, which are accounted for using the equity method. All intercompany
transactions and balances have been eliminated.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION
Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes an
acquisition that occurred on February 14, 2003. Under Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 141 (SFAS No. 141), "Business Combinations," the
acquisition is considered a "step" acquisition due to the fact that the Company
had a significant joint venture interest in the acquired business for a number
of years. Additionally, since the acquisition occurred during the year, the
Company elected to include it in the consolidated results as though it had
occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2003. Thus, the 2003 statement of
operations, balance sheet, and statement of cash flows have been adjusted to
consolidate the acquisition as of September 1, 2002. Also, the acquired
businesses were consolidated with the Company's previous interest in the
business to form a separate reporting segment called the Auto Parts Business. As
such, the financial statement information that was reported in the Company's
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 30, 2002 has been restated.
Additionally, consolidation accounting requires the Company to adjust its
earnings for the ownership interests it did not own during the reporting period.
During fiscal 2003, net income was reduced by $1.8 million of minority
interests, net of income taxes, representing the share of income attributable to
various continuing minority partners of the business. Also, for fiscal 2003, net
income was reduced by $2.5 million of pre-acquisition interests, net of income
taxes, representing the share of income attributable to the former joint venture
partner prior to the acquisition. The financial results of the acquired business
for periods prior to fiscal 2003 continue to be accounted for using the equity
method and are included in the joint venture businesses reporting segment.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents include short-term securities that have an original
maturity date of 90 days or less.

INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using
the average cost method. The production and accounting process utilized by the
Company to record recycled metals inventory quantities relies on significant
estimates, which can be affected by weight imprecision, moisture, production
yields and other factors.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Major renewals and
improvements are capitalized. Substantially all expenditures for maintenance and
repairs are charged to operations as incurred.

Depreciation is determined principally using the straight-line method over
estimated useful lives of approximately 20 to 40 years for buildings and
approximately 3 to 15 years for equipment. Leasehold improvements are amortized
over the

                                       48
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

estimated useful lives of the property or the remaining lease term, whichever is
less. When assets are retired or sold, the related cost and accumulated
depreciation are removed from the accounts and resulting gains or losses are
generally included in operating income.

LONG-LIVED ASSETS
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (SFAS No. 142), "Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets" requires that intangibles with finite useful lives
be reviewed for impairment in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 144 (SFAS No. 144), "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets." In September 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 144, which
supersedes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121 (SFAS No. 121),
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
be Disposed of", and Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30, "Reporting the
Results of Operation-Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a
Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and
Transactions." SFAS No. 144 establishes a single accounting model for long-lived
assets to be disposed of by sale, whether they were previously held and used or
newly acquired, and it also broadens the presentation of discontinued operations
to include more disposal transactions. The Company assesses its long-lived
assets for impairment at the lowest level for which there are identifiable cash
flows whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may
not be recoverable. Factors the Company considers important which could trigger
an impairment review include, but are not limited to, significant
underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results,
significant changes in the manner in which an asset is utilized and substantial
negative industry or economic trends. When such events or changes in
circumstances occur, the Company assesses the recoverability of long-lived
assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be
recovered through the discounted expected future cash flow. If the future
discounted cash flow is less than the carrying amount of these assets, the
Company recognizes an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount
over the fair value of the assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144.

GOODWILL
Effective September 1, 2002, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS No.
142). This statement changed the accounting for goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets from an amortization approach to an impairment-only approach.
As required under the transitional accounting provisions of SFAS No. 142, the
Company completed steps during the second quarter of fiscal 2003 to identify and
measure goodwill impairment at its two reporting units, which existed at the
time of adoption, the Metals Recycling Business and the Steel Manufacturing
Business. The reporting units were measured for impairment by comparing the
implied fair value of the reporting units' goodwill with the carrying amount of
the goodwill. Historical earnings were used as a basis to project future
earnings to determine whether any impairment of goodwill existed at the
reporting units. As a result of this evaluation, the Company determined that
goodwill associated with its Steel Manufacturing Business was impaired. The
Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge for the entire $983,000 of
remaining goodwill, effective September 1, 2002, and reported it as a
"Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle" on the Consolidated
Statement of Operations. The goodwill was not deductible for tax purposes, thus
the amount was not tax effected. The implementation of SFAS No. 142 required the
use of judgments, estimates and assumptions in the determination of fair value
and impairment amounts related to the required testing. Prior to adoption of
SFAS No. 142, the Company had historically evaluated goodwill for impairment by
comparing the entity level unamortized balance of goodwill to projected
undiscounted cash flows, which did not result in an indicated impairment. In the
future, the Company will perform impairments tests annually and whenever events
and circumstances indicate that the value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived
intangible assets might be impaired.

                                       49
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following table presents a reconciliation of reported net income and income
per share, as if SFAS No. 142 had been in effect for all periods presented (in
thousands, except per share amounts):

                                              For the year ended August 31,
                                              -----------------------------
                                          2003            2002            2001
                                          ----            ----            ----
Reported net income                    $ 43,201        $  6,553        $  7,919
Goodwill amortization, net of tax            --           1,269           1,251
                                       --------        --------        --------
Adjusted net income                    $ 43,201        $  7,822        $  9,170
                                       ========        ========        ========

Reported basic income per share        $   2.32        $   0.36        $   0.42
Goodwill amortization, net of tax            --            0.07            0.07
                                       --------        --------        --------
Adjusted basic income per share        $   2.32        $   0.43        $   0.49
                                       ========        ========        ========

Reported diluted income per share      $   2.20        $   0.35        $   0.42
Goodwill amortization, net of tax            --            0.07            0.07
                                       --------        --------        --------
Adjusted diluted income per share      $   2.20        $   0.42        $   0.49
                                       ========        ========        ========


The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the year ending August 31,
2003 are as follows (in thousands):

                                 Metals        Steel
                               Recycling   Manufacturing  Auto Parts
                                Business     Business      Business      Total
                                --------     --------      --------      -----

Balance as of year ending
   August 31, 2002, audited     $ 34,771     $   983       $    -      $ 35,754
Acquisition (Note 3)                 -            -          72,438      72,438

Impairment charge                    -          (983)           -          (983)
                                --------     -------       --------    --------
Balance as of August 31, 2003   $ 34,771     $    -        $ 72,438    $107,209
                                ========     =======       ========    ========

COMMON STOCK
Each share of Class A common stock is entitled to one vote and each share of
Class B common stock is entitled to ten votes. Additionally, each share of Class
B common stock may be converted to one share of Class A common stock.

EARNINGS PER SHARE
On July 23, 2003, the Company's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one stock
split, to be effected as a 100% share dividend, for both classes of its common
stock, par value $1.00 per share. Shareholders received one share of common
stock for every share owned. The share dividend was payable August 14, 2003 to
shareholders of record on July 24, 2003. The fiscal 2002 and 2001 common stock
outstanding have been adjusted to reflect this stock dividend.

Basic EPS is computed based upon the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that
would occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were
exercised or converted into common stock. The following represents a
reconciliation from basic EPS to diluted EPS giving effect to the share dividend
referred to above (in thousands, except per share amounts):

                                       50
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                              Year Ended August 31,
                                                              ---------------------
                                                           2003       2002       2001
                                                           ----       ----       ----
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>        <C>
Income before cumulative effect of accounting change     $ 44,184   $  6,553   $  7,919
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle          (983)       -          -
                                                         --------   --------   --------
Net income                                               $ 43,201   $  6,553   $  7,919
                                                         ========   ========   ========

Computation of shares:
     Average common shares outstanding                     18,650     18,296     18,742
     Stock options                                          1,003        270         38
                                                         --------   --------   --------
     Diluted average common shares outstanding             19,653     18,566     18,780
                                                         ========   ========   ========

Basic EPS:
Income before cumulative effect of accounting change     $   2.37   $   0.36   $   0.42
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle         (0.05)        -          -
                                                         --------   --------   --------
     Net income                                          $   2.32   $   0.36   $   0.42
                                                         ========   ========   ========
Diluted EPS:
Income before cumulative effect of accounting change     $   2.25   $   0.35   $   0.42
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle         (0.05)        -          -
                                                         --------   --------   --------
     Net income                                          $   2.20   $   0.35   $   0.42
                                                         ========   ========   ========

Dividend per share                                       $   0.10   $   0.10   $   0.10
                                                         ========   ========   ========
</TABLE>

Options with an exercise price greater than the average market price were not
included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because to do so would
be antidilutive. These options totaled 178,000 in 2003, 1,171,800 in 2002, and
2,042,000 in 2001.

The Company records stock-based compensation under the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB
25) and related Interpretations. Under this method, compensation expense for its
stock incentive plans is determined using the intrinsic value method.
Accordingly, because the exercise price equals the market price on the date of
the grant, no compensation expense is recognized by the Company for stock
options issued to employees, consultants and directors.


On December 31, 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 148 (SFAS No. 148), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation -
Transition and Disclosure," which amends Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123 (SFAS No. 123), "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation."
SFAS No. 148 provides alternative methods of transition for voluntary change to
the fair value method of accounting for stock-based compensation. In addition,
SFAS No. 148 requires more prominent disclosures in both annual and interim
financial statements about the method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. At this
time, the Company has elected to adopt the annual and interim disclosure
requirements of SFAS No. 148.

INTEREST AND INCOME TAXES PAID
The Company paid $1.5 million, $2.4 million, and $5.1 million in interest during
fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In fiscal years 2003 and 2001,
the Company paid $17.2 million and $1.4 million in income taxes, respectively.
During fiscal 2002, the Company received tax refunds of $0.5 million.

                                       51
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Cash, receivables and current liabilities in the consolidated financial
statements are considered to reflect the fair value because of the short-term
maturity of these instruments. The fair value of long-term debt is deemed to be
the same as that reflected in the consolidated financial statements given the
variable interest rates on the significant credit facilities. There are no
quoted prices for the Company's investments in joint ventures accounted for on
the equity method. A reasonable estimate of fair value could not be made without
incurring excessive costs.

USE OF ESTIMATES IN FINANCIAL STATEMENT PREPARATION
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the reported amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

REVENUE RECOGNITION
The Company recognizes revenue when it has a contract or purchase order from a
customer with a fixed price, the title and risk of loss transfer to the buyer
and collectibility is reasonably assured. Title for both metals and finished
steel products transfers upon shipment. For retail sales, revenues are
recognized when customers pay for salvaged parts.

All shipping costs billed to customers are recorded as revenue with the related
costs being included under cost of sales.

ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS
The estimated future costs for known environmental remediation requirements are
accrued on an undiscounted basis when it is probable that the Company has
incurred a liability and the related costs can be reasonably estimated. When
only a range of amounts is established, and no amount within the range is better
than another, the minimum amount of the range is recorded. Recoveries of
environmental remediation costs from other parties are recorded as assets when
collection is probable.

RECLASSIFICATIONS
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal year 2003
presentation. These changes had no impact on previously reported results of
operations or shareholder's equity.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In July 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
143 (SFAS No. 143), "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143
requires entities to record the fair value of a liability for an asset
retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred. When the liability
is initially recorded, the entity is required to capitalize the cost by
increasing the carrying amount of the related long-lived asset. Over time, the
liability is accreted to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost
is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset. SFAS No. 143 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002 and was adopted by the
Company effective September 1, 2002. The adoption of this statement did not have
a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In May 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, (SFAS No. 145) "Rescission of FAS
Nos. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FAS 13, and Technical Corrections." Among other
things, SFAS No. 145 rescinds various pronouncements regarding early
extinguishment of debt and allows extraordinary accounting treatment for early
extinguishment only when the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations - Reporting the Effects of Disposal
of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently
Occurring Events and Transactions" are met. SFAS 145 provisions regarding early
extinguishment of debt are generally effective for fiscal years beginning after
May 15, 2002. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on
the consolidated financial statements.

In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated
with Exit or Disposal Activities." The standard requires companies to recognize
costs associated with exit or disposal activities when they are incurred rather

                                       52
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

than at the date of a commitment to an exit or disposal plan. Costs covered by
the standard include lease termination costs and certain employee severance
costs that are associated with a restructuring, discontinued operation, plant
closing, or other exit or disposal activity. This statement is to be applied
prospectively to exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002.
The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on the
consolidated financial statements.

In April 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 149, "Amendment of Statement 133 on
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 149). SFAS No. 149
amends and clarifies accounting for derivative instruments, including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities
under SFAS No. 133. In particular, SFAS No. 149 clarifies under what
circumstances a contract with an initial net investment meets the
characteristics of a derivative and when a derivative contains a financing
component that warrants special reporting in the statement of cash flows. SFAS
No. 149 is generally effective for contracts entered into or modified after June
30, 2003 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's
financial position or results of operations.

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial
Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity", which
establishes standards for how financial instruments that have characteristics of
both liabilities and equity instruments should be classified on the balance
sheet. The requirements of SFAS No. 150 generally state that financial
instruments that give the issuer a choice of settling an obligation with a
variable number of securities or settling an obligation with a transfer of
assets or any mandatorily redeemable security should be classified as a
liability on the balance sheet. As of August 31, 2003, the Company does not have
any instruments that are within the scope of SFAS No. 150.

In November 2002, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" (FIN 45). FIN 45 requires that upon
issuance of a guarantee, a guarantor must recognize a liability for the fair
value of an obligation assumed under a guarantee. FIN 45 also requires
additional disclosures by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial
statements about the obligations associated with guarantees issued. The
recognition provisions of FIN 45 are effective for any guarantees that are
issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The adoption of this interpretation
did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

In January 2003, FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities" (FIN 46). FIN 46 requires a variable interest entity
to be consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a majority of the
risk of loss from the variable interest entity's activities or entitled to
receive a majority of the entity's residual returns or both. FIN 46 also
requires disclosures about variable interest entities that a company is not
required to consolidate but in which it has a significant variable interest. The
consolidation requirements of FIN 46 apply immediately to variable interest
entities created after January 31, 2003 and to existing entities in the first
fiscal year or interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. The Company has
determined that it does not have relationships with any entities which meet the
definition of a variable interest entity.


Note 2 - Inventories:

Inventories consist of the following (in thousands):

                                                      August 31,
                                                      ----------
                                                2003             2002
                                                ----             ----
    Recycled metals                           $ 21,115         $ 13,432
    Work in process                              8,254            6,495
    Finished goods                              19,912           25,245
    Supplies                                    11,862           12,745
                                              --------         --------
                                              $ 61,143         $ 57,917
                                              ========         ========

                                       53
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The production and accounting process utilized by the Company to record recycled
metals inventory quantities relies on significant estimates, which can be
affected by weight imprecisions, moisture, production yields and other factors.


Note 3 - Business Combinations:

On February 14, 2003, the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Norprop, Inc.
("Norprop") closed its acquisition (the "Acquisition" ) of all of the stock of
Pick and Pull Auto Dismantling, Inc., which was the Company's 50% partner in
Pick-N-Pull Auto Dismantlers, a California general partnership (the "Joint
Venture") and all of the membership interests in Pick-N-Pull Auto Dismantlers,
Stockton, LLC ("Stockton"). The cost of the Acquisition consisted of $71.4
million of cash paid to the seller at closing, $3.3 million of debt assumed and
immediately paid off, and $0.6 million of acquisition costs. In addition,
Norprop assumed approximately $12.5 million of debt owed by the Joint Venture to
the Company, bringing the total purchase price to $87.8 million (or $84.2
million net of the seller's $3.6 million share of the Joint Venture's cash on
hand at closing). The Joint Venture stores together with the Stockton store are
one of the country's leading self-service used auto parts networks with 23 store
locations, 17 in northern California, two in Nevada, and one in each of Texas,
Utah, Illinois and Indiana.

The purchase price of the Acquisition was allocated to tangible and intangible
identifiable assets and liabilities assumed based on an estimate of their fair
values. Certain tangible net assets, such as real estate, were valued by
independent third parties and the equipment was valued by Company management.
The excess of the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of the
identifiable net assets acquired of approximately $70.6 million was recognized
as goodwill. Approximately $3.7 million of goodwill existed on the Joint
Venture's balance sheet prior to the Acquisition, but the Company's $1.8 million
share of this amount was not shown separately in accordance with the equity
method of accounting. Therefore, the total increase to goodwill related to the
Acquisition was $72.4 million.

Additionally, in connection with the Acquisition, the Company conducted an
environmental due diligence investigation. Based upon new information obtained
in this investigation, the Joint Venture accrued $2.1 million in environmental
liabilities in the second quarter of 2003 for probable and reasonably estimable
future remediation costs at the Auto Parts Business' store locations. No
environmental proceedings are pending at any of these sites.

The initial purchase price is subject to the terms of the Purchase Agreement,
which provides for a purchase price adjustment one year after closing based upon
calendar year 2002 and 2003 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization (EBITDA) of the acquired Auto Parts Business. As defined by the
Purchase Agreement, the contingent future adjustment may increase or decrease
the initial purchase price by up to $12 million.

The purchase price allocation has been prepared on a preliminary basis. The
purchase price allocation is subject to changes in the purchase price due to the
contingent future adjustment mentioned above. The following is a summary of the
estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the
date of the acquisition (in millions):

           Property, plant and equipment               $13.3
           Other tangible assets                         2.6
           Other assets                                  5.4
           Liabilities                                  (4.1)
           Goodwill                                     70.6
                                                       -----
                Total                                  $87.8
                                                       =====

Goodwill of $70.6 million represents the excess of purchase price over the fair
value of the net tangible assets acquired. In accordance with SFAS No. 142,
goodwill is not amortized and will be tested for impairment at least annually.

The following table is prepared on a pro forma basis for fiscal 2003 and 2002 as
though the Auto Parts Business had been acquired as of the beginning of the
period presented, after including the estimated impact of certain adjustments
such as interest expense (in millions, except per share amounts).

                                       54
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


                                                     Year Ended August 31,
                                                     ---------------------
                                                    2003               2002
                                                  -------            -------
Net revenues                                      $ 496.9            $ 402.3
Income before cumulative effect
   of change in accounting principle              $  46.7            $  11.4
Net income                                        $  45.7            $  11.4
Net income per share:
     Basic                                        $  2.45            $  0.62
     Diluted                                      $  2.33            $  0.61


The pro forma results are not necessarily indicative of what would have occurred
if the acquisitions had been in effect for the periods presented. In addition,
they are not intended to be a projection of future results and do not reflect
any synergies that might be achieved from combining operations.


NOTE 4 - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND OPERATING LEASES:

Property, plant and equipment consist of the following (in thousands):

                                                             August 31,
                                                             ----------
                                                        2003            2002
                                                      --------        --------
     Machinery and equipment                          $222,604        $242,243
     Land and improvements                              50,348          37,831
     Buildings and leasehold improvements               70,861          14,932
     Construction in progress                           10,351           2,467
                                                      --------        --------
                                                       354,164         297,473

     Less: accumulated depreciation                   (212,940)       (185,714)
                                                      --------        --------
                                                      $141,224        $111,759
                                                      ========        ========

Depreciation expense from operations was $19.3 million in fiscal 2003, $16.7
million in fiscal 2002, and $16.8 million in fiscal 2001.

The Company leases certain property and equipment. The future minimum rental
payments under the operating leases are (in thousands):

                         Year                       Amount
                         ----                       ------
                         2004                       $4,894
                         2005                        4,232
                         2006                        2,885
                         2007                        1,804
                         2008                        1,236
                         Thereafter                    834

Rent expense was $3.6 million, $1.1 million and $1.4 million for fiscal years
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. See discussion of additional leases with
related parties in Note 9.

                                       55
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 5 - IMPAIRMENT AND OTHER NONRECURRING CHARGES:

During the second quarter of fiscal 2003, the Company accrued $2.1 million in
environmental liabilities relating to the acquisition of the Auto Parts Business
(refer to Note 3).

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, the Metals Recycling Business
discontinued the operations of two businesses that were not providing an
adequate return and terminated a fixed-price barge contract of affreightment
that was determined not to be cost effective. The Company recognized a charge of
$4.8 million, including a $0.4 million write down of property, plant and
equipment, a $2.4 million write down of goodwill, a $1.0 million write down of
other assets and a $1.0 million payment to terminate the barge contract.

Revenue from the discontinued operations during fiscal 2002 and 2001 was $1.6
million and $2.6 million, respectively. Operating results (defined as operating
income or loss before taxes) were losses of $0.8 million and $0.6 million for
fiscal 2002 and 2001, respectively.

In the second quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company sold a non-strategic steel
forging business that was part of a 1995 Metals Recycling Business acquisition
and recorded a loss of $0.8 million on the sale. Also in that quarter, the
Company recorded a loss of $1.5 million related to the early termination of two
vessel charter agreements with a related company (see Note 9 "Related Party
Transactions").

During fiscal 2002 and 2001, revenue from the closed steel forging business was
$0.4 million, and $1.4 million, respectively. Operating results for fiscal 2002
and 2001, (defined as operating income or loss before taxes) were losses of $0.1
million for both periods.


NOTE 6 - LONG-TERM DEBT:

Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):

                                                         August 31,
                                                         ----------
                                                     2003         2002
                                                   --------     --------
Bank unsecured revolving credit facilities         $ 79,000     $ 60,000

Tax-exempt economic development revenue
bonds due January 2022, interest payable
monthly at a variable rate (0.95 % at August
31, 2003), secured by a letter of credit              7,700        7,700

Other                                                   565          825
                                                   --------     --------
Total long-term debt                                 87,265       68,525

Less:  portion due within one year                     (220)     (60,220)
                                                   --------     --------
Long-term debt less current portion                $ 87,045     $  8,305
                                                   ========     ========

In May 2003, the Company entered into an agreement to refinance its revolving
bank credit facility. The new facility for $150 million is unsecured, matures in
May 2006 and bears interest at varying interest rates. As of August 31, 2003,
such rates on outstanding borrowings averaged 2.6%. Interest is payable at
varying dates not to exceed the maturity of each advance under the line.

                                       56
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In addition to the above facility, the Company has an additional unsecured line
of credit totaling $20 million, all of which is uncommitted. The committed bank
credit facilities and other borrowings contain financial covenants, including
covenants related to net worth, interest coverage and leverage. The Company was
in compliance with these covenants at August 31, 2003.

Payments on long-term debt during the next five fiscal years and thereafter are
as follows (in thousands):

                                Year                  Amount
                                ----                  ------
                                2004                     220
                                2005                     244
                                2006                  79,071
                                2007                      30
                                2008                      --
                             Thereafter                7,700
                                                    --------
                                                    $ 87,265
                                                    ========

NOTE 7 - ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES:

PORTLAND HARBOR

In December 2000, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) named
the Portland Harbor, a 5.5 mile stretch of the Willamette River in Portland,
Oregon, as a Superfund site. The Company's metals recycling and deep water
terminal facility in Portland, Oregon is located adjacent to the Portland
Harbor. Crawford Street Corporation, a Company subsidiary, also owns property
adjacent to the Portland Harbor. The EPA has identified 69 potentially
responsible parties (PRPs), including the Company and Crawford Street
Corporation, which own or operate sites adjacent to the Portland Harbor
Superfund site. The Company leases the metals recycling and deep water terminal
facility from Schnitzer Investment Corp. (SIC), a related party, and is
obligated under its lease with SIC to bear the costs relating to the
investigation and remediation of the property. The precise nature and extent of
any clean-up of the Portland Harbor, the parties to be involved, and the process
to be followed for such a clean-up have not yet been determined. It is unclear
whether or to what extent the Company or Crawford Street Corporation will be
liable for environmental costs or damages associated with the Superfund site. It
is also unclear whether natural resource damage claims or third party
contribution or damages claims will be asserted against the Company. While the
Company and Crawford Street Corporation participated in certain preliminary
Portland Harbor study efforts, they are not parties to the consent order entered
into by the EPA with other PRPs (Lower Willamette Group) for a Remedial
Investigation/Feasibility Study; however the Company could become liable for a
share of the costs of this study at a later stage of the proceedings.

Separately, the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) has requested
operating history and other information from numerous persons and entities which
own or conduct operations on properties adjacent to or upland from the Portland
Harbor, including the Company and Crawford Street Corporation. The DEQ
investigations at the Company and Crawford Street sites are focused on
controlling any current releases of contaminants into the Willamette River. The
Company has agreed to a voluntary Remedial Investigation/Source Control effort
with the DEQ regarding its Portland, Oregon deep water terminal facility and the
site owned by Crawford Street Corporation. DEQ identified these sites as
potential sources of contaminants that could be released into the Willamette
River. The Company believes that improvements in the operations at these sites,
often referred to as Best Management Practices (BMPs), will be sufficient to
effectively provide source control and avoid the release of contaminants from
these sites, and has proposed to DEQ the implementation of BMPs as the
resolution of this investigation.

While the cost of the investigations associated with these properties and the
cost of employment of source control BMPs are not expected to be material, no
estimate is currently possible and none has been made as to the cost of
remediation,

                                       57
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

if any. No accrual for remediation of the Portland Harbor or the Company's
adjacent properties had been established as of August 31, 2003.


MANUFACTURING MANAGEMENT, INC.

In 1994, Manufacturing Management, Inc. (MMI) recorded a reserve for the
estimated cost to cure certain environmental liabilities. This reserve was
carried over to the Company's financial statements when MMI was acquired in
1995, and at August 31, 2003 aggregated $15.6 million.

General Metals of Tacoma (GMT), a subsidiary of MMI, owns and operates a metals
recycling facility located in the State of Washington on the Hylebos Waterway, a
part of Commencement Bay, which is the subject of an ongoing remediation project
by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA).
GMT and more than 60 other parties were named potentially responsible parties
(PRPs) for the investigation and clean-up of contaminated sediment along the
Hylebos Waterway. On March 25, 2002, EPA issued Unilateral Administrative Orders
(UAOs) to GMT and another party to proceed with Remedial Design and Remedial
Action (RD/RA) for the head of the Hylebos and to two other parties to proceed
with the RD/RA for the balance of the waterway. It is anticipated that the UAOs
will soon be converted to more specific voluntary consent decrees and that EPA
will take additional action against other PRPs. The issuance of the UAOs did not
require the Company to change its previously recorded estimate of environmental
liabilities for this site. Significant uncertainties continue to exist regarding
the total cost to remediate this site as well as the Company's share of those
costs; nevertheless, the Company's estimate of its liabilities related to this
site is based on information currently available.

The Natural Resource Damage Trustees (Trustees) for Commencement Bay have
asserted claims against GMT and other PRPs within the Hylebos Waterway area for
alleged damage to natural resources. In March 2002, the Trustees delivered a
draft settlement proposal to GMT and others in which the Trustees suggested a
methodology for resolving the dispute, but did not indicate any proposed damages
or cost amounts. In June 2002, GMT responded to the Trustees' draft settlement
proposal with various corrections and other comments, as did twenty other
participants. It is unknown at this time whether, or to what extent, GMT will be
liable for natural resource damages. The Company's previously recorded
environmental liabilities include an estimate of the Company's potential
liability for these claims.

The Washington State Department of Ecology named GMT, along with a number of
other parties, as Potentially Liable Parties (PLPs) for a site referred to as
Tacoma Metals. GMT operated on this site under a lease prior to 1982. The
property owner and current operator have taken the lead role in performing a
Remedial Investigation and Feasibility Study (RI/FS) for the site. The RI/FS is
now completed and the parties are currently involved in a mediation settlement
process to address cost allocations. The Company's previously recorded
environmental liabilities include an estimate of the Company's potential
liability at this site.

MMI is also a named PRP at two third-party sites at which it allegedly disposed
of transformers. At one site, MMI entered into a settlement under which it paid
$825,000 towards remediation of the site. Remediation of the site has been
completed and it is now subject to a five year monitoring program. The other
site has not yet been subject to significant remedial investigation. MMI has
been named as a PRP at several other sites for which it has agreed to de minimis
settlements. In addition to the matters discussed above, the Company's
environmental reserve includes amounts for potential future cleanup of other
sites at which MMI has conducted business or has allegedly disposed of other
materials.

PROLER

In 1996, prior to the Company's acquisition of Proler International Corp.
(Proler), Proler recorded a liability for the probable costs to remediate its
wholly-owned properties. The Company carried over the aggregate reserve to its
financial statements upon acquiring Proler, and $3.5 million remained
outstanding on August 31, 2003.

                                       58
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

As part of the Proler acquisition, the Company became a 50% owner of Hugo
Neu-Proler Company (HNP). HNP has agreed, as part of its 1996 lease renewal with
the Port of Los Angeles (POLA), to conduct a multi-year, phased remedial
clean-up project involving certain environmental conditions on its metals
recycling facility at its Terminal Island site in Los Angeles, California, which
was completed in 2002. HNP is waiting for final certification from POLA and the
regulatory agencies overseeing the cleanup. Remediation included excavation and
off-site disposal of contaminated soils, paving and groundwater monitoring.
Other environmentally protective actions included installation of a stormwater
management system and construction of a noise barrier and perimeter wall around
a substantial portion of the facility.

Metals Recycling L.L.C. (Metals) is a scrap metals processing business with
locations in Rhode Island and Massachusetts. The members of Metals are one of
the Company's Proler joint ventures and Izzo Group, Inc. On June 9, 1999, the
Rhode Island Department of Environmental Management (DEM) issued a Notice of
Violation (NOV) against Metals, alleging Metals had violated federal and state
regulations relating to the storage, management and transportation of hazardous
waste and seeking to impose an administrative penalty of $0.7 million. Metals
has filed an answer to the NOV in which it denied the allegations and requested
an adjudicatory hearing. In January of 1999, federal and state officials
searched Metal's Johnston, Rhode Island and Worcester, Massachusetts facilities.
Metals was advised that the search was part of a state criminal investigation
into possible violations of state and federal hazardous waste programs and a
Rhode Island statute that prohibits the disposal of out-of-state solid waste at
the landfill operated by Rhode Island Resource Recovery Corporation (RIRRC). A
grand jury was empanelled to consider the allegations and issued an indictment
on August 30, 2002 against Metals for storing hazardous waste without a permit,
operating a hazardous waste disposal facility without a permit, causing
transportation of hazardous waste without a permit, causing transportation of
hazardous waste without a manifest and operating a solid waste management
facility without a license. Metals has pleaded not guilty on all counts and has
vigorously contested the state's allegations. Settlement discussions with DEM
and the Rhode Island Attorney General's Office to settle the civil NOV and the
criminal charges are being held.

In August 1999, the DEM issued a NOV to RIRRC, that included a civil penalty of
$0.3 million, relating to the alleged disposal of hazardous waste by Metals at a
landfill operated by RIRRC. RIRRC settled this matter with DEM and in response
to RIRRC's claim against Metals for contribution, RIRRC and Metals agreed to a
settlement in which Metals paid RIRRC $0.2 million in 2003.

On March 15, 2002, DEM issued a NOV against Metals' Johnston, Rhode Island
facility, alleging violations of provisions of the Rhode Island Clean Air Act
and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and seeking to impose administrative
penalties of $1.1 million against Metals. On April 5, 2002, Metals filed its
answer and request for a hearing, in which it denied liability for such alleged
violations. In August 2003, Metals and DEM agreed to a settlement of this matter
providing for payment by Metals of a reduced fine of $0.7 million payable in
2003 through 2007, which is further reduced to $0.3 million payable in 2003
through 2004 if Metals installs electric engines, converting from diesel.

Metals' results of operations for the past few years have included accruals for
the probable costs to remediate or settle the above mentioned environmental
situations.

Additionally, other Proler joint venture sites with potential environmental
clean-up issues have been identified. Estimated clean-up costs associated with
these sites have been accrued for by the joint ventures.

In connection with the acquisition of the Auto Parts Business, the Company
conducted an environmental due diligence investigation. Based upon new
information obtained in this investigation, the Joint Venture accrued $2.1
million in environmental liabilities in the second quarter of fiscal 2003 for
remediation costs at the Auto Parts Business's store locations. No environmental
proceedings are pending at any of these sites.

The Company considers various factors when estimating its environmental
liabilities. Adjustments to the liabilities are made when additional information
becomes available that affects the estimated costs to remediate. The factors,
which the Company considers in its recognition and measurement of environmental
liabilities, include the following:

                                       59
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

o    Current regulations both at the time the reserve is established and during
     the course of the clean-up which specify standards for acceptable
     remediation;
o    Information about the site, which becomes available as the site is studied
     and remediated;
o    The professional judgment of both senior-level internal staff and external
     consultants who take into account similar, recent instances of
     environmental remediation issues, among other considerations;
o    Technologies available that can be used for remediation; and
o    The number and financial condition of other potentially responsible parties
     and the extent of their responsibility for the remediation.


NOTE 8 - INCOME TAXES:

The provision for income taxes is as follows (in thousands):

                                                  Year Ended August 31,
                                                  ---------------------
                                              2003        2002        2001
                                              ----        ----        ----
                    Current:
                          Federal           $13,363     $   508     $   318
                          State               3,011         686         610
                    Deferred:
                          Federal             1,051       1,436       2,325
                          State                 521      (1,536)        148
                                            -------     -------     -------
                                            $17,946     $ 1,094     $ 3,401
                                            =======     =======     =======

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):

                                                                 August 31,
                                                                 ----------
                                                             2003        2002
                                                             ----        ----

     California Enterprise Zone credit carryforward        $    200    $    200
     AMT carryforward                                           374         529
     Segment held for sale                                     (176)         29
     Inventory valuation methods                              2,897       2,170
     Employee benefit accruals                                  906         891
     State income tax and other                                 323         147
                                                           --------    --------
            Net current deferred tax assets                $  4,524    $  3,966
                                                           ========    ========

     California Enterprise Zone credit carryforward        $ (1,500)   $ (1,500)
     Accelerated depreciation and basis differences          44,409      42,010
     Environmental liabilities                               (8,711)     (8,430)
     Net operating loss carryforwards and credits            (6,090)     (6,928)
     Other                                                   (1,105)     (1,220)
                                                           --------    --------
                                                             27,003      23,932
     Deferred tax asset valuation allowance                   6,090       6,928
                                                           --------    --------
            Net non-current deferred tax liabilities        $33,093    $ 30,860
                                                           ========    ========

                                       60
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The reasons for the difference between the effective income tax rate and the
statutory federal income tax rate are as follows:

                                                         Year Ended August 31,
                                                         ---------------------
                                                         2003    2002    2001
                                                         ----    ----    ----

     Federal statutory rate                               35%     34%     34%
     Foreign sales corporation/Extraterritorial
         Income Exclusion (1)                            (11)     (7)     (5)
     State taxes, net of credit                            5      11       7
     State taxes, Californian Enterprise Zone             --     (22)     --
     Proler NOLs                                          (1)    (10)     (7)
     Amortization of goodwill                             --      11       3
     Other                                                (1)     (3)     (2)
                                                         ----    ----    ----
           Effective tax rate                             27%     14%     30%
                                                         ====    ====    ====

(1)  During 2000, in response to allegations by the World Trade Organization
     (WTO) that the federal tax benefit conferred on Foreign Sales Corporations
     (FSC) constituted an illegal trade subsidy, Congress enacted legislation to
     replace the FSC rules with the Extraterritorial Income Exclusion (ETI)
     taxation scheme. The Company adopted the new ETI rules for export sales
     made after October 1, 2000. The Company has found that these rules provide
     a tax benefit comparable to what the FSC rules would have provided. The
     WTO has since alleged that ETI is also an illegal trade subsidy, but no
     further tax legislation has been passed to address this latest allegation.

As part of the 1996 acquisition of Proler International Corp. (Proler), the
Company acquired $31.4 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards
(NOLs). The Company recognized no immediate tax benefit for the NOLs. Instead,
the Company set up an offsetting $31.4 million valuation allowance, because the
ultimate use of the NOLs was uncertain given the then-current federal tax law
proscription against applying the NOLs to any taxable income other than the
post-acquisition income generated by Proler. A change to federal tax law in
1999, however, has allowed an annual $2.4 million of NOL to be applied to
taxable income from all sources, not just from Proler. Due to this change in tax
law, the Company released an annual $2.4 million from the valuation allowance,
and recognized the corresponding $0.8 million in tax benefit, in fiscal years
2001, 2002 and 2003. This is a major reason why the Company's effective tax
rates have been lower than the statutory rates for those years. The remaining
balance of unused NOLs, which stands at $15.3 million as of August 31, 2003,
will expire in fiscal years 2007 through 2012 if not used by then.

The Company also acquired $0.7 million of credits as part of the Proler
acquisition. As with the NOLs, a valuation allowance was set up to offset the
credits, the ultimate use of which has been made more likely by the subsequent
liberalization of federal tax law. No part of the valuation allowance has yet to
be released. The credits are not likely to be used until after the NOLs have
been used or expire. The credits can be carried forward indefinitely.

In fiscal 2002, the Company qualified for $2.1 million of Enterprise Zone tax
credits in the state of California. These credits can be used to offset
California state income taxes to the extent that each corporation in the
consolidated group has a California franchise (income) tax liability. Any
credits in excess of the tax liability can be carried forward indefinitely.
These credits, combined with the release of $2.4 of valuation allowance
pertaining to the NOLs, were major reasons the Company's effective tax rate of
14% for fiscal 2002 was well below the statutory rate of 34%.

                                       61
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 9 - RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS:

Certain shareholders of the Company own significant interest in, or are related
to owners of, the entities discussed below. As such, these entities are
considered related parties for financial reporting purposes.

TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING COST OF GOODS SOLD AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES
Periodically, the Company charters vessels from related companies at market
rates to transport recycled metal to foreign markets. The number of vessels
chartered varies from year to year depending on the availability of their
vessels. In 1995, the Company signed seven-year time-charter agreements for two
vessels scheduled to expire in July 2002. Due in part to the world economic
slow-down in 2002, ocean freight rates declined sharply. As a result, in the
second quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company terminated the leases in order to
take advantage of market rates which were $7 to $8 per ton lower than the all-in
contracted rates. The lease terminations resulted in a loss of $1.5 million in
the second quarter of fiscal 2002. Charges incurred for both open market and
long-term time charters were $1.9 million, $4.7 million and $13.5 million for
2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

A primary reason for entering into a number of the Company's joint ventures was
to secure the supply of recyclable metal for the Metals Recycling Business. The
Company purchased recycled metals from its joint venture operations at prices
that approximate market. Purchases from these joint ventures totaled $5.0
million, $10.4 million and $12.1 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

The Company leases certain land and buildings from Schnitzer Investment Corp.
("Landlord"), a related real estate company, under operating leases. The
following table summarizes the lease terms, annual rents and future minimum
rents (in thousands):

                                                       Lease           Current
     Location:                                      Expirations      Annual Rent
     ---------                                      -----------      -----------

     Metals Recycling Business:
         Portland facility and marine terminal           2063           $1,834
     Administrative offices                              2014              319


                                                        Minimum
     Year                                                Rents
     ----                                                -----

     2004                                                $2,127
     2005                                                 2,215
     2006                                                 2,225
     2007                                                 2,235
     2008                                                 2,245
     Thereafter                                         103,089

Rent expense was $2.1 million, $1.9 million, and $1.7 million for 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively.

In accordance with a lease agreement dated September 1988, the rent for the
Metals Recycling Business's Portland facility was adjusted in 2003 and will be
adjusted every 15 years thereafter to market rates. This 2003 adjustment was
based on an analysis of market rates performed by independent experts and
consultations with independent counsel and was approved by a majority of the
Company's independent directors. In 2008 and every five years thereafter, except
in the year of a market rate adjustment, the rent will be adjusted based on the
Consumer and Producer Price Indices.

                                       62
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

In August 2003, the Company entered into a new agreement with Landlord for the
lease of its administrative offices in conjunction with a reconfiguration of the
space it occupies. The rent, according to the new agreement, was based on an
analysis of market rates performed by independent experts and consultations with
independent counsel and was approved by a majority of the Company's independent
directors.

Until August 2003, the Company leased the property upon which its Sacramento
operation is located from Landlord. Upon expiration of the lease in August 2003,
the Company purchased the property from Landlord. The purchase price of $1.1
million was determined by an independent appraisal and was approved by a
majority of the Company's independent directors.

TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING SELLING AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
The Company performs some administrative services and provides operation and
maintenance of management information systems for certain related parties. These
services are charged to the related parties based upon cost plus a 15% margin
for overhead and profit. These administrative charges totaled $0.9 million, $1.0
million and $1.1 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)
Included in other assets are $1.1 million and $28.3 million of notes receivable
from joint venture businesses at August 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In
fiscal 2002, Company converted $28.3 million in advances to its self-service
auto parts dismantling joint venture into a note receivable. The note, dated
February 22, 2002, had a scheduled maturity of March 1, 2009. In conjunction
with the Company's acquisition of Pick-N-Pull, this note has been eliminated in
consolidation (see Note 3). The Company recorded interest income on notes and
certain other advances to joint ventures. This income totaled $0.1 million, $0.5
million and $2.0 million fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.


NOTE 10 - EMPLOYEE BENEFITS:

In accordance with union agreements, the Company contributed to union pension
plans $2.5 million, $2.3 million and $2.6 million in fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. These are multi-employer plans and, consequently, the Company is
unable to determine its relative portion of or estimate its future liability
under the plans.

The Company has several defined contribution plans covering nonunion employees.
The pension cost related to these plans totaled $1.2 for fiscal 2003, and $1.1
million for each of fiscal 2002 and 2001.

For certain nonunion employees, the Company also maintains a defined benefit
pension plan. The following table sets forth the change in benefit obligation,
change in plan assets and funded status at August 31, 2003 and 2002 in
accordance with SFAS 132, "Employer's Disclosure About Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits" (in thousands):

                                       63

<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                 August 31,
                                                                 ----------
                                                              2003        2002
                                                              ----        ----
     Change in benefit obligation:
           Benefit obligation at beginning of year          $ 7,662     $ 6,693
           Service cost                                         792         754
           Interest cost                                        549         501
           Actuarial loss                                     1,053         500
           Transfers                                             --         (19)
           Benefits paid                                       (475)       (767)
                                                            -------     -------
           Benefit obligation at end of year                $ 9,581     $ 7,662
                                                            =======     =======

     Change in plan assets:
           Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year   $ 6,656     $ 5,873
           Actual return on plan assets                         514        (872)
           Employer contribution                              1,690       2,441
           Transfers                                              2         (19)
           Benefits paid                                       (475)       (767)
                                                            -------     -------
           Fair value of plan assets at end of year         $ 8,387     $ 6,656
                                                            =======     =======

     Funded status:
           Plan assets less than  benefit obligation        $(1,193)    $(1,006)
           Unrecognized actuarial (gain) loss                 3,543       2,590
           Unrecognized prior service cost                       45          50
                                                            -------     -------
           Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost                   $ 2,395     $ 1,634
                                                            =======     =======


Assumptions used each year in determining the defined benefit net pension cost
are:

                                                        August 31,
                                                        ----------
                                                2003      2002      2001
                                                ----      ----      ----
     Weighted average discount rate             6.3%      7.0%      7.0%
     Expected rate of investment return         8.0%      8.0%      9.0%
     Expected rate of compensation increase     3.8%      4.0%      4.0%

The components of net periodic pension benefit cost are (in thousands):

                                                  Year Ended August 31,
                                                  ---------------------
                                                2003      2002      2001
                                                ----      ----      ----
     Service cost                               $792      $754      $690
     Interest cost                               549       501       442
     Expected return on plan assets             (541)     (537)     (576)
     Amortization of past service cost             4         4         4
     Recognized actuarial loss                   126        24       --
                                                ----      ----      ----
     Net periodic pension benefit cost          $930      $746      $560
                                                ====      ====      ====

The Company has adopted a nonqualified supplemental retirement plan for certain
executives. A restricted trust fund has been established and invested in life
insurance policies which can be used for plan benefits, but are subject to
claims of general creditors. The trust fund and deferred compensation expense
are classified as other assets. The status of this plan is summarized as follows
(in thousands):

                                       64
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                        August 31,
                                                        ----------
                                                2003      2002      2001
                                                ----      ----      ----
     Restricted trust fund                    $1,540    $1,191    $1,562
     Deferred compensation expense               374       347       182
     Long-term pension liability               2,570     2,174     1,705
     Pension cost                                273       305       236

The trust fund assets experience stock market gains and losses, which are
included in other income (expense). During fiscal 2003, 2002 and 2001, the
Company recognized gains (losses) totaling $0.4 million, $(0.4) million and
$(0.7) million, respectively.

When the Company acquired Proler, it assumed a liability for deferred
compensation payable to certain ex-employees of Proler. As of August 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, the remaining liability aggregated $0.1 million, $0.3 million and
$0.7 million, respectively. These amounts are included in other long-term
liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.


NOTE 11 - STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN:
The Company has adopted a stock incentive plan for employees, consultants and
directors of the Company. The plan covers 4,800,000 shares of Class A common
stock. All options have a ten-year term and, except for options granted in
fiscal 1999 and 2001, become exercisable for 20% of the shares covered by the
option on each of the first five anniversaries of the grant. The options granted
in fiscal 1999 became fully exercisable on the first anniversary of the grant.
The options granted in fiscal 2001 become exercisable as follows: 33% after one
year from the date of grant, 66% after two years from the date of grant, and
100% after two and one-half years from the date of grant. The vesting periods
for these options varied from the standard because the Company granted them to
certain employees in lieu of annual salary revisions.

The Company records stock-based compensation under the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB
25) and related Interpretations. An alternative method of accounting exists
under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation," (SFAS No. 123) which requires the use of option
valuation models. Under APB 25, because the exercise price of the Company's
employee stock options equaled the market price of the underlying stock on the
date of grant, no compensation expense is recognized.

Pro forma information for fiscal years 2003, 2002 and 2001 regarding net income
and earnings per share is required by SFAS No. 123, as amended by Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 148 (SFAS No. 148), "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure", and has been determined
as if the Company had accounted for its employee stock options under the fair
value method. The fair value for these awards was estimated at the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions:

                                                      Year Ended August 31,
                                                      ---------------------
                                                   2003       2002       2001
                                                   ----       ----       ----
     Risk-free interest rate                       3.7%       4.7%       4.8%
     Dividend yield                                1.0%       1.0%       1.0%
     Weighted average expected life of options   7.0 Years  7.0 Years  7.0 Years
     Volatility                                     .35       .40         .43

                                       65
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Had compensation expense for the Company's stock options been recognized based
upon the estimated fair value on the grant date under the fair value methodology
allowed by SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148, the Company's net income
and net income per share would have been as follows (in thousands, except
earnings per share):


                                                   Year Ended August 31,
                                                   ---------------------
                                              2003         2002         2001
                                              ----         ----         ----

Reported net income                        $ 43,201      $ 6,553      $ 7,919
Stock compensation expense, net of tax         (830)        (786)        (739)
                                           --------      -------      -------
Pro forma net income                       $ 42,371      $ 5,767      $ 7,180
                                           ========      =======      =======

Reported basic income per share            $   2.32      $  0.36      $  0.42
Pro forma basic income per share           $   2.27      $  0.32      $  0.38

Reported diluted income per share          $   2.20      $  0.35      $  0.42
Pro forma diluted income per share         $   2.16      $  0.31      $  0.38

A summary of the Company's stock option activity and related information is as
follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                             Year Ended August 31,
                                                                             ---------------------
                                                           2003                      2002                     2001
                                                           ----                      ----                     ----
                                                                Weighted                 Weighted                 Weighted
                                                                Average                  Average                  Average
                                                                Exercise                 Exercise                 Exercise
                                                   Options       Price      Options       Price      Options       Price
                                                   -------       -----      -------       -----      -------       -----

<S>                                                 <C>        <C>           <C>        <C>           <C>        <C>
Outstanding-beginning of year                       2,144      $    8.85     2,254      $    8.60     1,836      $    9.10
Options granted                                       397      $   13.01       118      $   10.01       468      $    6.75
Options exercised                                  (1,062)     $    8.22      (208)     $    6.82       (10)     $    6.00
Options canceled                                      (24)     $    8.61       (20)     $    8.68       (40)     $   10.67
                                                    -----                    -----                    -----
Outstanding - end of year                           1,455      $   10.44     2,144      $    8.85     2,254      $    8.60
                                                    =====                    =====                    =====
Exercisable at end of year                            636      $   10.67     1,464      $    9.38     1,312      $    9.35
                                                    =====                    =====                    =====
Weighted-average fair value of options granted
during year                                                    $    5.21                $    4.24                $    3.26
                                                               =========                =========                =========
</TABLE>

Exercise prices for options outstanding as of August 31, 2003 ranged from $6.75
to $18.00. The weighted-average remaining contractual life of those options is
6.6 years.

During fiscal 2001, the Company also issued 128,392 options to a consultant. The
options were fully vested as of September 15, 2001 and expire on September 15,
2005. The exercise price is $8.71 per share. During fiscal 2003, the consultant
exercised 97,120 of these options. The Company recorded an expense of $0.2
million in fiscal 2001 related to this transaction.

                                       66
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 12 - Segment Information:

The Company operates in three industry segments: metal processing and recycling
(Metals Recycling Business), mini-mill steel manufacturing (Steel Manufacturing
Business) and self-service used auto parts (Auto Parts Business). Additionally,
the Company is a non-controlling partner in joint ventures, which are either in
the metals recycling business or are suppliers of unprocessed metals. The
Company also considers these to be separate segments because they are managed
separately. These joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. As
such, the operating information provided below related to the joint ventures is
shown separately from consolidated information, except for the Company's equity
in the net income of, investment in and advances to the joint ventures.

The Metals Recycling Business buys and processes ferrous and nonferrous metals
for sale to foreign and other domestic steel producers or their representatives
and to the Steel Manufacturing Business. The Metals Recycling Business also
purchases ferrous metals from other processors for shipment directly to the
Steel Manufacturing Business.

The Steel Manufacturing Business produces rebar, merchant bar, wire rod, coiled
rebar and other specialty products.

The Auto Parts Business purchases salvaged vehicles, sells parts from those
vehicles through its retail facilities and wholesale operations, and sells the
remaining portion of the vehicles to metal recyclers, including the Metals
Recycling Business. Note 3 describes the acquisition that occurred on February
14, 2003. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 ("SFAS No.
141"), "Business Combinations", the acquisition is considered a "step"
acquisition due to the fact that the Company had a significant joint venture
interest in the acquired business for a number of years. Additionally, since the
acquisition occurred during the year, the Company elected to include it in the
consolidated results as though it had occurred at the beginning of fiscal 2003.
Thus, the 2003 statement of operations, balance sheet, and statement of cash
flows have been adjusted to consolidate the acquisition as of September 1, 2002.
The financial results of the acquired businesses for periods prior to fiscal
2003 continue to be accounted for using the equity method and are included in
the joint venture businesses reporting segment.

Intersegment sales from the Metals Recycling Business to the Steel Manufacturing
Business, and from the Auto Parts Business to the Metals Recycling Business, are
transferred at negotiated market rates per ton. These intercompany sales tend to
produce intercompany profits, which are eliminated until the finished products
are ultimately sold to third parties.

The Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business are also engaged in buying,
processing and selling primarily ferrous metal. Recycled metals are sold to
foreign and domestic steel mills.

The Joint Venture Suppliers of Metals are industrial plant demolition
contractors. These joint ventures dismantle industrial plants perform
environmental remediation and sell recovered metals and machinery. The Company
purchases substantially all of the ferrous recycled metals generated by these
joint ventures.

The information provided below is obtained from internal information that is
provided to the Company's chief operating decision-maker for the purpose of
corporate management. The Company does not allocate corporate interest income
and expense, income taxes or other income and expenses related to corporate
activity to its operating segments. Assets and capital expenditures are not
shown for the joint ventures as management does not use that information to
allocate resources or assess performance.

                                       67
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

<TABLE><CAPTION>

                                                                       Year Ended August 31,
                                                                       ---------------------
                                                                  2003         2002         2001
                                                                  ----         ----         ----
<S>                                                            <C>          <C>          <C>
      Revenues from external customers (in thousands):
           Metals Recycling Business                            $308,553     $221,811     $205,168
           Auto Parts Business                                    65,225          --           --
           Steel Manufacturing Business                          191,861      166,586      167,554
           Intersegment revenues                                 (68,773)     (37,749)     (49,891)
                                                                --------     --------     --------
      Consolidated revenues                                     $496,866     $350,648     $322,831
                                                                ========     ========     ========

The joint ventures' revenues from external customers are as follows (in thousands):

                                                                       Year Ended August 31,
                                                                       ---------------------
                                                                  2003         2002         2001
                                                                  ----         ----         ----
      Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business
           Processing                                           $616,958     $480,157     $447,689
           Brokering                                             251,431      144,962      108,274
      Joint Venture Suppliers of Metals                            8,877       61,762       53,381
                                                                --------     --------     --------
                                                                $877,266     $686,881     $609,344
                                                                ========     ========     ========

Revenues by geographic area (in thousands):

                                                                       Year Ended August 31,
                                                                       ---------------------
                                                                  2003         2002         2001
                                                                  ----         ----         ----
           Metals Recycling Business:
           Asia                                                 $223,490     $164,512     $130,459
               United States                                      85,063       57,299       74,709
               Sales to Steel Manufacturing Business             (61,052)     (37,730)     (49,845)
                                                                --------     --------     --------
               Sales to external customers                       247,501      184,081      155,323

           Auto Parts Business:
               United States                                      65,225          --           --
               Sales to Metals Recycling Business                 (7,721)         --           --
                                                                --------     --------     --------
               Sales to external customers                        57,504          --           --

           Steel Manufacturing Business:
               United States                                     191,861      166,586      167,554
               Interdivision sales                                  --            (19)         (46)
                                                                --------     --------     --------
               Sales to external customers                       191,861      166,567      167,508
                                                                --------     --------     --------
           Consolidated revenues                                $496,866     $350,648     $322,831
                                                                ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

                                       68
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business do not maintain revenues by
geographic area and it would be impracticable to provide such disclosure. Sales
by the Joint Venture Suppliers of Metals are all made to customers in the United
States. See Note 9 regarding the Company's purchases from its joint ventures.
<TABLE><CAPTION>

                                                                 Year Ended August 31,
                                                                 ---------------------
                                                            2003         2002         2001
                                                            ----         ----         ----
<S>                                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
                                                                    (in thousands)
     Income (loss) from operations:
       Metals Recycling Business                          $ 35,781     $ 11,535     $  8,387
       Auto Parts Business                                  21,968         --           --
       Steel Manufacturing Business                         (2,522)      (5,718)       4,860
       Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business      24,827       13,766        6,549
       Joint Venture Suppliers of Metals                      (406)       5,624        3,288
       Corporate expense and eliminations                   (8,763)      (8,282)      (8,015)
       Impairment and other nonrecurring charges            (2,100)      (7,100)         --
                                                          --------     --------     --------
       Consolidated income from operations                $ 68,785     $  9,825     $ 15,069
                                                          ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

In fiscal 2003, the Company reported $2.1 milllion of impairment and other
non-recurring charges related to the Auto Parts Business segment. The amount is
shown separately to allow the reader of the financial statements to better
understand the operating results. See Note 5.

Income from operations from the joint ventures represents the Company's equity
in the net income of these entities.
<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                 Year Ended August 31,
                                                                 ---------------------
                                                            2003         2002         2001
                                                            ----         ----         ----
<S>                                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
                                                                    (in thousands)
     Depreciation and amortization expense:
         Metals Recycling Business                        $  6,052     $  8,903     $  8,957
         Auto Parts Business                                 4,017         --            --
         Steel Manufacturing Business                        8,915        9,368        9,412
         Corporate expense and eliminations                    457          360          373
                                                          --------     --------     --------
         Consolidated depreciation and
            amortization expense                          $ 19,441     $ 18,631     $ 18,742
                                                          ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

The Company's share of depreciation and amortization expense included in the
determination of the joint ventures' net income is as follows:
<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                  Year Ended August 31,
                                                                  ---------------------
                                                             2003         2002         2001
                                                             ----         ----         ----
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>          <C>
                                                                     (in thousands)
     Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business        $6,539       $6,542       $5,890
     Joint Venture Suppliers of Metals                         286        1,132          966
</TABLE>

                                       69
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following is a summary of the Company's total assets and capital
expenditures:
<TABLE><CAPTION>
                                                                        Year Ended August 31,
                                                                        ---------------------
                                                                  2003          2002          2001
                                                                  ----          ----          ----
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>           <C>
                                                                           (in thousands)
     Total assets:
         Metals Recycling Business                              $136,137      $119,088      $127,143
         Auto Parts Business                                     105,283          --            --
         Steel Manufacturing Business                            113,384       122,036       150,715
         Investment in and advances to:
            Joint Ventures in the Metals Recycling Business      115,924        90,433       105,522
            Joint Venture Suppliers of Recycled Metal              3,124         6,006         6,101
         Corporate                                                14,042        67,443        36,389
                                                                --------      --------      --------
                                                                $487,894      $405,006      $425,870
                                                                ========      ========      ========

     Capital expenditures:
         Metals Recycling Business                              $ 16,176      $  5,962      $  5,358
         Auto Parts Business                                       2,932          --            --
         Steel Manufacturing Business                              2,496         3,182         3,591
         Corporate                                                   192           425           348
                                                                --------      --------      --------
                                                                $ 21,796      $  9,569      $  9,297
                                                                ========      ========      ========
</TABLE>

In fiscal years 2003 and 2001, one customer accounted for 21% and 10% of the
Company's consolidated revenues, respectively. During fiscal 2002, no single
customer accounted for more than 10% of consolidated revenues. During fiscal
2003, 2002 and 2001, sales to China aggregated 23%, 24% and 19%, respectively,
of consolidated revenues.

During fiscal 2002, one customer accounted for 11% of combined revenues for
these joint ventures, respectively, while during fiscal 2003 and 2001, no single
customer accounted for more than 10% of combined revenues for these joint
ventures.


NOTE 13 - SUMMARIZED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF JOINT VENTURES:

A summary of combined operations of joint ventures in which the Company is a
partner is as follows:

                                                       Year Ended August 31,
                                                       ---------------------
                                                       2003            2002
                                                       ----            ----
                                                          (in thousands)

     Current assets                                 $ 150,461       $ 130,284
     Noncurrent assets                                132,390         126,252
                                                    ---------       ---------
                                                    $ 282,851       $ 256,536
                                                    =========       =========

     Current liabilities                            $  87,418       $  79,740
     Noncurrent liabilities                             8,917          35,894
     Partners' equity                                 186,516         140,902
                                                    ---------       ---------
                                                    $ 282,851       $ 256,536
                                                    =========       =========

                                       70
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



                                                  Year Ended August 31,
                                         -------------------------------------
                                           2003          2002            2001
                                         --------      --------       --------
                                                    (in thousands)
     Revenues                            $877,266      $686,881       $609,344
                                         ========      ========       ========
     Income from operations              $ 52,162      $ 39,833       $ 13,526
                                         ========      ========       ========
     Net income before taxes             $ 50,464      $ 39,824       $ 19,477
                                         ========      ========       ========

The Company performs some administrative services and provides operation and
maintenance of management information systems to some of these joint ventures.
These administrative charges totaled $0.1 million in fiscal years 2003, 2002 and
2001.

Advances from and to joint venture partnerships from the Company are included in
noncurrent assets and liabilities above. Certain advances bear interest.


NOTE 14 - QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE
AMOUNTS):

                                                 Fiscal Year 2003
                                                 ----------------
                                    First       Second       Third      Fourth
                                    -----       ------       -----      ------

Revenues                          $ 90,667(1)  $124,659    $127,944    $153,596
Income from operations               8,771(1)    13,174      22,028      24,812
Net income                           2,891(2)     8,409      15,028      16,873
Diluted earnings per share(3)     $   0.21     $   0.45    $   0.78    $   0.84


                                                 Fiscal Year 2002
                                                 ----------------
                                    First       Second       Third       Fourth
                                    -----       ------       -----       ------

Revenues                          $ 76,834     $ 78,362    $ 95,363    $100,089
Income from operations               3,490       (1,164)      4,842       2,657
Net income (loss)                    2,044       (1,054)      3,367       2,196
Diluted earnings per share        $   0.11     $  (0.06)   $   0.19    $   0.12


                                                 Fiscal Year 2001
                                                 ----------------
                                    First       Second       Third       Fourth
                                    -----       ------       -----       ------

Revenues                          $ 87,036     $ 87,849    $ 77,046    $ 70,900
Income from operations               3,004        3,856       2,215       5,994
Net income                           1,355        2,105       1,465       2,994
Diluted earnings per share        $   0.07     $   0.11    $   0.08    $   0.16


(1)  Differences from amounts previously reported are due to the acquisition of
     Pick-N-Pull which occurred during the Company's second fiscal quarter of
     2003, but are reflected in the consolidated results as if the transaction
     had occurred on September 1, 2002. See Notes 1 and 3.

                                       71
<PAGE>
                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(2)  During the second fiscal quarter of 2003, the Company recorded a non-cash
     impairment charge of $1.0 million related to the implementation of SFAS 142
     "Goodwill and other Intangible Assets" effected September 1, 2002, and
     reported it as a "Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle" on
     the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Net income was restated due to
     this change.

(2)  Diluted earnings per share has been adjusted to reflect the share dividend
     which occurred on August 14, 2003.




























                                       72
<PAGE>

                 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts



               For the Years Ended August 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001
                                 (In thousands)
<TABLE><CAPTION>

             Column A                       Column B       Column C - Additions   Column D      Column E
- --------------------------------------    -----------   -----------------------   ----------   ----------
                                           Balance at   Charged to   Charged to                Balance at
                                           beginning     Cost and      other                     end of
           Description                     of period     expenses     accounts    Deductions    period
- --------------------------------------    -----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                       <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>

           Fiscal 2003
           -----------
Allowance for doubtful accounts            $   1,005     $     21     $            $   (314)    $    712
Inventories - net realizable value             1,071          (10)                                 1,061
Deferred tax asset valuation allowance         6,928                                   (838)       6,090


           Fiscal 2002
           -----------
Allowance for doubtful accounts                  920           85                                  1,005
Inventories - net realizable value             1,338         (267)                                 1,071
Deferred tax asset valuation allowance         7,766                                   (838)       6,928

           Fiscal 2001
           -----------
Allowance for doubtful accounts                  670          250                                    920
Inventories - net realizable value             1,536         (198)                                 1,338
Deferred tax asset valuation allowance         8,605                                   (839)       7,766
</TABLE>






                                       73
<PAGE>

                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE










To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
of Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated October 1, 2003 appearing in this Form 10-K also included an audit of the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our
opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements.


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Portland, Oregon
October 1, 2003

















                                       74
<PAGE>

                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K




ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

NONE.


ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES


Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. management, under supervision of the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures for Schnitzer Steel
Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries. As of August 31, 2003, with the
participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer,
management completed an evaluation of the Company's disclosure controls and
procedures. Based upon this evaluation, the Company's Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the disclosure controls and
procedures are effective to ensure that all material information relating to
Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries is made known to them by
others within the organization as appropriate to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosures.

There were no changes in the Company's internal control over financial reporting
during the fourth fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, the internal control over financial
reporting.







                                       75
<PAGE>


                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K regarding directors is
included under "Election of Directors" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its
2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information with respect to executive officers of the Company is included under
Item 4(a) of Part I of this Report. Information required by Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is included under "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that is applicable
to all of its employees. It includes additional provisions that apply to the
Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal
accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions (the
"Senior Financial Officers"). It also provides a code of business conduct and
ethics for members of the Company's Board of Directors. This document is posted
on the Company's internet website (www.schnitzersteel.com) and is available free
of charge by calling the Company or submitting a request to ir@schn.com. The
Company intends to disclose any amendments to or waivers from these Codes for
directors, executive officers or Senior Financial Officers on its website.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is included under "Executive Compensation"
in the Company's Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and
is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Information with respect to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management is included under "Voting Securities and Principal Shareholders" in
the Company's Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is
incorporated herein by reference. Information with respect to securities
authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans is included under
"Equity Compensation Plan Information" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its
2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item is included under Certain Transactions
in the Company's Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and
is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

Information regarding the Company's principal accountant fees and services is
included under "Independent Auditors" in the Company's Proxy Statement for its
2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

                                       76
<PAGE>

                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K


                                     PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K


(a)  1.   The following financial statements are filed as part of this report:

          See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page 42
          of this report.

     2.   The following schedule and report of independent accountants are filed
          as part of this report:
                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
          Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                       73
          Report of Independent Accountants on Financial Statement Schedule   74

          All other schedules are omitted as the information is either not
          applicable or is not required.


3. Exhibits:

     2.1  Stock and Membership Interest Purchase Agreement dated January 8, 2003
          among Bob Spence, Pick and Pull Auto Dismantling, Inc., Pick-N-Pull
          Auto Dismantlers, Pick-N-Pull Auto Dismantlers, Stockton, LLC and
          Norprop, Inc. Filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended November 30, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

     3.1  1993 Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant.
          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's
          Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration No. 33-69352 (the
          Form S-1).

     3.2  Restated Bylaws of the Registrant. Filed as Exhibit 3.2 to
          Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 1998, and
          incorporated herein by reference.

     9.1  Schnitzer Steel Industries Inc. 2001 Restated Voting Trust and
          Buy-Sell Agreement dated March 26, 2001. Filed as Exhibit 9.1 to
          Registrant's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2001 and
          incorporated herein by reference.

     10.1 Lease Agreement dated August 7, 2003 between Schnitzer Investment
          Corp. and the Registrant, relating to the corporate headquarters.

     10.2 Lease Agreement dated August 7, 2003 between Schnitzer Investment
          Corp. and the Registrant, relating to the corporate headquarters.


     10.3 Lease Agreement dated September 1, 1988 between Schnitzer Investment
          Corp. and the Registrant, as amended, relating to the Portland metals
          recycling operation. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
          Form S-1.

     10.4 Second Amendment to Lease dated October 28, 1994 between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant, relating to Portland metals
          recycling operation. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Form 10-Q
          for the quarterly period ended November 30, 1995, and incorporated
          herein by reference.

                                       77
<PAGE>

                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K

     10.5 Third Amendment to Lease dated February 1998 between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant, relating to Portland metals
          recycling operation. Filed as Exhibit 10.25 to Registrant's Form 10-K
          for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by
          reference.

     10.6 Fourth Amendment to Lease dated July 1, 1998, between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant, relating to Portland metals
          recycling operation. Filed as Exhibit 10.26 to Registrant's Form 10-K
          for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by
          reference.

     10.7 Letter dated March 22, 1999 amending the lease between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant related to the Portland metals
          recycling operation. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant's Form 10-Q
          for the quarter ended November 30, 2001, and incorporated herein by
          reference.

     10.8 Fifth Amendment to Lease dated July 9, 2001 between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant related to the Portland metals
          recycling operation.

     10.9 Sixth Amendment to Lease dated August 7, 2003 between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant related to the Portland metals
          recycling operation.

    10.10 Purchase and Sale Agreement dated August 7, 2003 between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant, relating to the Sacramento metals
          recycling operation's real estate.

    10.11 Second Amended Shared Services Agreement dated September 13, 1993
          between the Registrant and certain entities controlled by shareholders
          of the Registrant. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the
          Form S-1.

    10.12 Amendment dated September 1, 1994 to Second Amended Shared Services
          Agreement between the Registrant and certain entities controlled by
          shareholders of the Registrant. Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Registrants
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1995, and incorporated
          herein by reference.

   *10.13 1993 Stock Incentive Plan of the Registrant. Filed as Exhibit 10.1
          to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2002, and
          incorporated herein by reference.

   *10.14 Supplemental Executive Retirement Bonus Plan of the Registrant.
          Filed as Exhibit 10.24 to Registrant's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
          ended August 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

   *10.15 Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Retirement Bonus Plan of the
          Registrant effective January 1, 2002. Filed as Exhibit 10.25 to
          Registrant's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2001, and
          incorporated herein by reference.

   *10.16 Deferred Bonus Agreement between the Company and an executive
          officer. Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the
          quarterly period ended May 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by
          reference.

   *10.17 Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Economic Value Added Bonus Plan.
          Filed as Exhibit 10.27 to Registrant's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
          ended August 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

                                       78
<PAGE>

                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K

     21.1 Subsidiaries of Registrant.

     23.1 Consent of Independent Accountants.

     24.1 Powers of Attorney

     31.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of
          the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

     31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of
          the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

     32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
          1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
          2002.

     32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
          1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
          2002.

     *Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement



(b) Reports on Form 8-K

     The following report was filed on Form 8-K during the fiscal quarter ended
     August 31, 2003:

          On July 1, 2003, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, to
          report under Item 9, pursuant to Item 12, the issuance of a press
          release announcing financial results for the Company's quarter and
          nine months ended May 31, 2003, and Item 7, Financial Statements and
          Exhibits.













                                       79
<PAGE>

                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K

SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

Dated  November 24, 2003                By:  /s/BARRY A. ROSEN
                                           -------------------------------------
                                           Barry A. Rosen
                                           Vice President, Finance and Treasurer
                                           and Chief Financial Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant :
November 24, 2003 in the capacities indicated.


Signature                               Title
- ---------                               -----

Principal Executive Officer:



*ROBERT W. PHILIP                       President and
- -----------------------------------     Chief Executive Officer and Director
Robert W. Philip


Principal Financial Officer:



 /s/ BARRY A. ROSEN                     Vice President, Finance and Treasurer
- -----------------------------------     and Chief Financial Officer
Barry A. Rosen





Principal Accounting Officer:



/s/ KELLY E. LANG                       Vice President, Corporate Controller
- -----------------------------------
Kelly E. Lang


                                       80
<PAGE>


Directors:


*ROBERT S. BALL                         Director
- -----------------------------------
Robert S. Ball


*WILLIAM S. FURMAN                      Director
- -----------------------------------
William S. Furman


*CAROL S. LEWIS                         Director
- -----------------------------------
Carol S. Lewis


*SCOTT LEWIS                            Director
- -----------------------------------
Scott Lewis


*KENNETH M. NOVACK                      Director
- -----------------------------------
Kenneth M. Novack


*JEAN S. REYNOLDS                       Director
- -----------------------------------
Jean S. Reynolds


*DORI SCHNITZER                         Director
- -----------------------------------
Dori Schnitzer


*GARY SCHNITZER                         Director
- -----------------------------------
Gary Schnitzer



*RALPH R. SHAW                          Director
- -----------------------------------
Ralph R. Shaw


*By:  /s/ BARRY A. ROSEN
     -----------------------------------
      Attorney-in-fact, Barry A. Rosen

                                       81
<PAGE>

                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS

   2.1    Stock and Membership Interest Purchase Agreement dated January 8, 2003
          among Bob Spence, Pick and Pull Auto Dismantling, Inc., Pick-N-Pull
          Auto Dismantlers, Pick-N-Pull Auto Dismantlers, Stockton, LLC and
          Norprop, Inc. Filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Registrants Form 10-Q for the
          quarter ended November 30, 2002, and incorporated herein by reference.

   3.1    1993 Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant.
          Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant's
          Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration No. 33-69352 (the
          Form S-1).

   3.2    Restated Bylaws of the Registrant. Filed as Exhibit 3.2 to Registrants
          Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 1998, and incorporated herein
          by reference.

   9.1    Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. 2001 Restated Voting Trust and
          Buy-Sell Agreement dated March 26, 2001. Filed as Exhibit 9.1 To
          Registrants Form 10-K for the rascal year ended August 31, 2001, and
          incorporated herein by reference.

   10.1   Lease Agreement dated August 7, 2003 between Schnitzer Investment
          Corp. and the Registrant, relating to the corporate headquarters.

   10.2   Lease Agreement dated August 7, 2003 between Schnitzer Investment
          Corp. and the Registrant, relating to the corporate headquarters.

   10.3   Lease Agreement dated September 1, 1988 between Schnitzer Investment
          Corp. and the Registrant, as amended, relating to the Portland metals
          recycling operation. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
          Form S-1.

   10.4   Second Amendment to Lease dated October 28, 1994 between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant, relating to Portland metals
          recycling operation. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrants Form 10-Q
          for the quarterly period ended November 30, 1995, and incorporated
          herein by reference.

   10.5   Third Amendment to Lease dated February 1998, between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant relating to Portland recycled
          metals recycling operation. Filed as Exhibit 10.25 to Registrants Form
          10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2000, and incorporated
          herein by reference.

   10.6   Fourth Amendment to Lease dated July 1, 1998, between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant relating to Portland metals
          recycling operation. Filed as Exhibit 10.26 to Registrants Form 10-K
          for the fiscal year ended August 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by
          reference

                                       82
<PAGE>

   10.7   Letter dated March 22, 1999 amending the lease between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant relating to the Portland recycled
          metals recycling operation. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Registrants Form
          10-Q for the quarter ended November 30, 2001, and incorporated herein
          by reference.

   10.8   Fifth Amendment to Lease dated July 9, 2001 between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant related to Portland metals
          recycling operation.

   10.9   Sixth Amendment to Lease dated August 7, 2003 between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant related to Portland metals
          recycling operation.

   10.10  Purchase and Sale Agreement dated August 7, 2003 between Schnitzer
          Investment Corp. and the Registrant, relating to the Sacramento metals
          recycling operations real estate.

   10.11  Second Amended Shared Services Agreement dated September 13, 1993
          between the Registrant and certain entities controlled by shareholders
          of the Registrant. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the
          Form S-1.

   10.12  Amendment dated September 1, 1994 to Second Amended Shared Services
          Agreement between the Registrant and certain entities controlled by
          shareholders of the Registrant. Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to Registrants
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 31, 1995, and incorporated
          herein by reference.

   *10.13 1993 Stock Incentive Plan of the Registrant. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
          Registrants Form 10-Q for quarter ended February 28, 2002, and
          incorporated herein by reference.

   *10.14 Supplemental Executive Retirement Bonus Plan of the Registrant. Filed
          as Exhibit 10.24 to Registrants Form 10-K for fiscal year ended August
          31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

   *10.15 Amendment to the Supplemental Executive Retirement Bonus Plan of the
          Registrant effective January 1, 2002. Filed as Exhibit 10.25 to
          Registrants Form 10-K for fiscal year ended August 31, 2001, and
          incorporated herein by reference.

   *10.16 Deferred Bonus Agreement between the Company and an executive officer.
          Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Registrants Form 10-Q for the quarterly
          period ended May 31, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

   *10.17 Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. Economic Value Added Bonus Plan.
          Filed as Exhibit 10.27 to Registrants Form 10-K for fiscal year ended
          August 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

   21.1   Subsidiaries of Registrant.

   23.1   Consent of Independent Accountants.

                                       83
<PAGE>

   24.1   Powers of Attorney.

   31.1   Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of
          the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

   31.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of
          the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

   32.1   Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
          1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
          2002.

   32.2   Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section
          1350 as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
          2002.





























                                       84

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>exh10-1_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LEASE AGREEMENT DATED AUGUST 7, 2003
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.1
                                                                    ------------










                              YEON BUSINESS CENTER
                              (3200 NW YEON AVENUE)


                                 LEASE AGREEMENT


                           SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.

                                   (LANDLORD)


                                       AND


                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                                    (TENANT)






                              DATED: AUGUST 7, 2003



<PAGE>
                                 LEASE AGREEMENT

     THIS LEASE ("Lease") dated as of the 7th day of August, 2003, is made by
and between SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP., an Oregon corporation ("Landlord"), and
SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC., an Oregon corporation ("Tenant").

                              ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS

     1.1   DEFINED TERMS. The following terms shall have the meanings specified
in this Section, unless otherwise specifically provided. Other terms may be
defined in other parts of the Lease.

           (a)  Landlord:                    SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.

           (b)  Landlord's Address:          c/o Schnitzer Northwest, LLC
                                             5800 Meadow Road, Suite 200
                                             Lake Oswego, OR 97035
                                             Telephone: (503) 598-1842
                                             Facsimile: (503) 598-1843

                With a Copy to:              Ball Janik LLP
                                             101 SW Main Street, Suite 1100
                                             Portland, Oregon 97204
                                             Attn:  Barbara W. Radler
                                             Telephone:  (503) 228-2525
                                             Facsimile:  (503) 295-1058

           (c)  Landlord's Address           Schnitzer Investment Corp.
                for payment of Rent          PO Box 4000
                                             M/S 78
                                             Portland, OR 97208

           (d)  Tenant:                      SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

           (e)  Tenant's Address:            3200 NW Yeon Avenue
                                             PO Box 10047
                                             Portland, OR 97296-0047
                                             Attn: Kelly E. Lang

           (f)  Tenant's Use:                General office use, information
                                             services, and related, incidental
                                             uses

           (g)  Project:                     Yeon Business Center, including all
                                             buildings and Common Areas thereon
                                             and related thereto, as depicted on
                                             the Project Site Plan attached as
                                             Exhibit "B."

           (h)  Building:                    That certain building designated as
                                             the 3200 Building on the Project
                                             Site Plan attached hereto as
                                             Exhibit B with a rentable area of
                                             approximately 30,774 square feet,
                                             and with a street address of 3200
                                             NW Yeon Avenue, Portland, Oregon.
<PAGE>
           (i)  Premises:                    Approximately 7,905 rentable square
                                             feet on the lower level and
                                             approximately 11,266 rentable
                                             square feet on the first floor of
                                             the Building as depicted on the
                                             attached Exhibit "C."

           (j)  Term:                        Commencing upon the Substantial
                                             Completion (as defined in Section
                                             3.2) of the Tenant Improvements (as
                                             defined in Section 3.1) and
                                             expiring on the last day of the
                                             month during the month that is ten
                                             (10) years after the date of the
                                             Substantial Completion of the
                                             Tenant Improvements.

           (k)  Base Rent:

                MONTHS            RENT PRSF (ANNUAL)        MONTHLY INSTALLMENTS
                            LOWER LEVEL       FIRST FLOOR
                  1-12         $13.00            $17.00         $24,523.92
                 13-24         $13.33            $17.43         $25,145.01
                 25-36         $13.66            $17.87         $25,775.49
                 37-48         $14.00            $18.32         $26,421.93
                 49-60         $14.35            $18.78         $27,084.36
                 61-72         $14.71            $19.25         $27,762.77
                 73-84         $15.08            $19.73         $28,457.14
                 85-96         $15.45            $20.22         $29,167.49
                 97-108        $15.84            $20.73         $29,903.21
                109-120        $16.24            $21.25         $30,654.90


           (l)  Base Year:                   2004

           (m)  Prepaid Rent:                $0.00

           (n)  Security Deposit:            $0.00

           (o)  Tenant's Share of Building:  62.3%

           (p)  Tenant's Share of Project:   7.14%

           (q)  Surface Parking Spaces:      51 uncovered reserved surface
                                             parking spaces in the Project shall
                                             be provided in the parking area
                                             adjacent to the Building for the
                                             exclusive use of Tenant, its
                                             employees and visitors, subject to
                                             reduction due to governmental
                                             regulation.

           (r)  Exhibits:                    Exhibit A:  Intentionally omitted
                                             Exhibit B:  Project Site Plan
                                             Exhibit C:  Floor Plan
                                             Exhibit D:  Work Schedule
                                             Exhibit E:  Schedule of Tenant
                                                         Improvement Plans
                                             Exhibit F:  Lease Confirmation
                                             Exhibit G:  Estoppel Certificate
                                             Exhibit H:  Rules and Regulations
<PAGE>
                   ARTICLE II PREMISES AND COMMON AREAS LEASED

     2.1   PREMISES.

           (a)  Landlord hereby leases to Tenant, and Tenant hereby leases from
Landlord, subject to the provisions of this Lease, certain premises as more
fully described on the attached Exhibit C ("Premises") located within that
certain building ("Building") owned by Landlord and which is a portion of the
"Project" identified in Section 1.1(g). The Site Plan for the Project attached
hereto as Exhibit B is attached for location reference purposes only and shall
not constitute a representation or warranty by Landlord to be the final plan of
the Project, or to require Landlord to build any improvements, or to otherwise
comply with the site plan or require Landlord to lease space to a particular
tenant or type of tenant.

           (b)  The rentable areas of the Premises and of the Building specified
in Section 1.1 are approximate but based on measurements using the American
National Standard Method of Measuring Floor Area in Office Buildings, ANSI-BOMA
Z65.1-1996, published by the Building Owners and Managers Association
International ("BOMA Standards"), and the measurements take into account the
shared uses described in Section 2.3. Tenant is satisfied with such
approximations and with Landlord's measurement of the rentable areas of the
Premises and of the Building. Tenant acknowledges that, except as otherwise
expressly set forth in this Lease, neither Landlord nor any agent, property
manager or broker of Landlord has made any representation or warranty with
respect to the Premises, the Building, the Common Areas or the Project or their
suitability for the conduct of Tenant' s business, and that except only for any
improvements that Landlord has expressly agreed herein to construct and install,
the Premises is leased in its "As-Is" condition existing at the time of
execution of this Lease.

     2.2   COMMON AREAS. In addition to the Premises, Tenant shall have the
non-exclusive right to use in common with other tenants and/or occupants of the
Project, the following areas appurtenant to the Building: parking areas and
facilities, roadways, sidewalks, walkways, parkways, plazas, levees, driveways
and landscaped areas and similar areas and facilities situated within the
exterior areas of the Project and not otherwise designated for the exclusive or
restricted use by Landlord and/or individual tenants of other buildings located
within the Project (collectively, "Common Areas"). Common Areas also include
shared lobbies, entryways, hallways, elevators, and restrooms, as modified from
time to time. Tenant's right to utilize the Common Areas shall at all times be
subject to Landlord's reserved rights therein as described in Section 17.5
hereof, the Rules and Regulations referred to in Section 17.15 hereof, all
encumbrances, easements, ground leases, and covenants, conditions and
restrictions ("CC&Rs") now affecting or encumbering the Project and all
encumbrances, easements, ground leases, and CC&R's affecting or encumbering the
Project in the future, to the extent they do not materially and adversely affect
Tenant's rights to use the Common Areas under this Lease.

     2.3   SHARED USE OF BUILDING AREAS.

           (a)  IN THE PREMISES. Landlord reserves for itself and its
contractors, employees, and agents, and Tenant grants to Landlord and its
contractors, employees, and agents, the right to use of, and access to, the
areas in the Premises designated as "building common areas" on the attached
Exhibit C such as the furnace room and the lunch room (the "Shared Areas"). The
measurement of the net rentable area of the Premises, using BOMA Standards, has
taken into account such rights of joint use of Shared Areas in the Premises. If
Landlord elects to terminate its right to use any Shared Area, which Landlord
may do from time to time throughout the Term, (i) Landlord shall remeasure the
Premises to reflect such change, using BOMA Standards, and (ii) Base Rent,
Tenant's Share of the Building, Tenant's Share of the Project, and Tenant's
Share of the Operating Expense Increase shall change accordingly (collectively,
the "Adjustments"). Beginning on the first day of the first calendar month
following Landlord's written notice to Tenant of the Adjustments, and continuing
thereafter throughout the Term (or until such earlier date on which another
Adjustment takes place), Tenant shall pay Base Rent and Additional Rent in
accordance with Landlord's notice of the Adjustment.

           (b)  IN LANDLORD'S PREMISES. Unless terminated as provided below,
Tenant shall have the nonexclusive right to use the conference room located on
the second floor of the Building (the "Conference Room"), on a first come-first
served basis. All use of the Conference Room must be scheduled in advance with
<PAGE>
Landlord. Landlord may terminate Tenant's rights to use of the Conference Room
after giving 30 days' prior written notice to Tenant if (i) Schnitzer Investment
Corp. ("SIC") vacates the offices on the second floor of the Building, or (ii)
SIC conveys its interest in the Building to a third party, or (iii) Landlord
elects to change the use of the Conference Room to something other than a shared
conference room. As of the commencement of the Lease, the Conference Room is
considered common area for purposes of determining Operating Expenses. However,
if Tenant's right to use the Conference Room terminates as provided in this
Section 2.3(b), then, from and after that termination, the Conference Room shall
not be considered common area for purposes of calculating net rentable area.
Landlord shall calculate the Adjustments resulting from such change as described
in Section 2.3(a). Then, beginning on the first day of the first calendar month
following Landlord's written notice to Tenant of the Adjustments, and continuing
thereafter throughout the Term (or until such earlier date on which another
Adjustment takes place), Tenant shall pay Base Rent and Additional Rent in
accordance with Landlord's notice of the Adjustment.

           (c)  MULTI-TENANT BUILDING. If SIC vacates the offices on the second
floor of the Building, then (a) Landlord shall have the right to reconfigure the
Premises, at Landlord's sole cost and expense, so as to make the Building more
suitable for occupancy by unaffiliated tenants (such as by adding common area
corridors), (b) Tenant shall cooperate with such changes, and (c) Landlord shall
make any appropriate Adjustments resulting from such reconfiguration. Then,
beginning on the first day of the first calendar month following Landlord's
written notice to Tenant of the Adjustments, and continuing thereafter
throughout the Term (or until such earlier date on which another Adjustment
takes place), Tenant shall pay Base Rent and Additional Rent in accordance with
Landlord's notice of the Adjustment. Any reconfiguration of the Premises
pursuant to this Section 2.3(c) shall not materially and adversely affect
Tenant's use of the Premises. The construction of new public corridors in the
Premises shall not be considered material or adverse.


                            ARTICLE III IMPROVEMENTS

     3.1   CONSTRUCTION OF PREMISES.

           (a)  COMPLETION SCHEDULE. Attached hereto as Exhibit D is a schedule
(the "Work Schedule") setting forth the estimated timetable for the planning,
permitting, construction and completion of the tenant improvements to be
constructed by Landlord at the Premises ("Tenant Improvements").

           (b)  PREMISES PLANS. The plans and specifications for the Tenant
Improvements (the "Tenant Improvement Plans") are described on the attached
Exhibit E. No changes to the Tenant Improvement Plans shall be made except with
the approval of both Landlord and Tenant.

           (c)  CONSTRUCTION OF TENANT IMPROVEMENTS. Landlord shall work with a
general contractor chosen by Landlord (the "Contractor") for construction of the
Tenant Improvements. After building permits have been issued, Landlord shall
cause the Tenant Improvements to be constructed by the Contractor in accordance
with the Tenant Improvement Plans. Landlord shall supervise the completion of
such work and shall use its good faith efforts to secure substantial completion
of the Tenant Improvements in accordance with the Work Schedule. The cost of
Tenant Improvements shall be paid as provided in Paragraph 3.1(f) below.

           (d)  CHANGE ORDERS. In the event Tenant requests any changes to the
Tenant Improvement Plans, Landlord shall not unreasonably withhold, delay, or
condition its consent to any such changes. Tenant shall pay the costs, fees, and
expenses incurred by Landlord in connection with such changes within 15 days
after billing therefor.

           (e)  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS. Landlord shall cause the Tenant
Improvements to be completed in a good and workmanlike manner and in compliance
with the building permit issued therefor by the City of Portland.
<PAGE>
           (f)  PAYMENT OF TENANT IMPROVEMENTS COSTS.

                (i)  Landlord will pay for the Tenant Improvements included in
the Tenant Improvement Plans.

                (ii) Tenant will, at its sole cost and expense, pay for any
improvements to the Premises not expressly included in the Tenant Improvement
Plans and all costs, fees, and expenses incurred by Landlord due to any changes
in the Tenant Improvement Plans requested by Tenant and approved by Landlord
(which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld). Tenant shall arrange for
the installation of all Tenant's furniture, fixtures and equipment associated
with its business. Costs associated with Tenant's equipment, layout, design and
construction coordination are also the sole responsibility of Tenant.

           (g)  TENANT DELAY IN COMPLETION. If there shall be a delay in
substantial completion of the Tenant Improvements to the Premises or the
issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for the same as a result of:

                (i)  Tenant's failure to approve any item or perform any other
obligation within three (3) business days after receipt of notice from Landlord;

                (ii) Tenant's request for changes in materials, finishes or
installations other than those readily available;

                (iii) Tenant's request to deviate from the Plans; or

                (iv) Tenant's interference with Landlord's construction of the
Tenant Improvements to Premises during Tenant's work within the Premises
(whether such work is performed by Tenant or its contractor or by Landlord or
its contractor on Tenant's behalf);

(each of which shall be deemed a "Tenant Delay") then the Commencement Date of
the Term of the Lease shall be accelerated by the number of days of such delay.

     3.2   COMPLETION AND DELIVERY. The terms "substantial completion,"
"Substantial Completion," "Substantially Complete," "Substantially complete" and
words of similar import (whether or not spelled with initial capitals) as used
in the Lease shall mean the date of substantial completion of the Tenant
Improvements pursuant to the Tenant Improvement Plans such that Tenant may
commence the installation of any of Tenant's equipment and occupy the Premises
for the conduct of its business (subject to the completion of any additional
construction to be performed by Tenant). The Tenant Improvements shall be deemed
substantially complete notwithstanding the fact that minor details of
construction, mechanical adjustments or decorations which do not materially
interfere with Tenant's use and enjoyment of the Premises remain to be performed
(items normally referred to as "punch list" items). Certification by Landlord's
architect as to the substantial completion of the Tenant Improvements shall be
conclusive and binding upon Landlord and Tenant. By taking occupancy of the
Premises, Tenant shall be deemed to have accepted the Premises as substantially
complete, except that Tenant shall, within five (5) days after entering into
possession of the Premises, provide Landlord with a list of incomplete and/or
corrective items present in the Tenant Improvements. Landlord shall diligently
complete, as soon as reasonably possible, any items of work and adjustment on
such list as are not completed upon substantial completion of the Tenant
Improvements. The Commencement Date shall not be delayed because of the
existence of uncorrected punch list items.

     3.3   RELOCATION; CONTINUANCE OF CURRENT LEASE DURING CONSTRUCTION. Tenant
currently leases the Premises pursuant to Lease Agreement dated September 1,
1988, as amended by an Amendment of Lease dated May 31, 1991, an Extension of
Lease dated August 27, 1993, a Second Amendment of Lease dated October 18, 1995,
a Second Extension of Lease dated May 28, 1996, a Third Amendment of Lease dated
August 3, 1998, and a Fourth Amendment of Lease dated June 26, 2001
(collectively, the "Current Lease"). The Current Lease shall continue in full
force and effect until the Commencement Date of this Lease. Effective
immediately prior to the Commencement Date of this Lease (the "Termination
Date"), the Current Lease shall terminate and all rights and obligations of
Landlord and Tenant under the Current Lease shall terminate except for rights
and obligations accrued as of the Termination Date pertaining to events
occurring on or prior to the Termination Date. Promptly upon notice from
<PAGE>
Landlord, Tenant shall vacate the Building and relocate into its premises in the
building located at 3330 NW Yeon Avenue. Tenant shall continue to pay rent,
additional rent, and all other charges under the Current Lease and comply with
its obligations under the Current Lease through the Termination Date while
Landlord constructs the Tenant Improvements in the Premises. Landlord agrees to
contract with, and pay the reasonable expenses charged by, a third party moving
company to move Tenant's personal property and equipment from the Building into
the 3330 NW Yeon Avenue building.

     3.4   REPAINT AND RECARPETING. Between the 60th and 72nd month of the
Initial Term of this Lease, Landlord shall repaint and recarpet the Premises
using materials of similar quality as those in the Tenant Improvements.


                                ARTICLE IV TERM

     4.1   INITIAL TERM. Subject to Section 3.1(g), the Term shall commence on
the Commencement Date, as set forth in Section 1.1(j). The Term shall expire
upon the date set forth in Section 1.1(j), unless sooner terminated as
hereinafter provided.

     4.2   NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT DATE. Landlord shall use good faith efforts to
inform Tenant of the estimated date of substantial completion at least five (5)
days prior to such date. Upon ascertaining the date of substantial completion
and the Commencement Date, Landlord shall deliver to Tenant a written
confirmation in the form attached hereto as Exhibit F ("Lease Confirmation") of
said dates of substantial completion and the Commencement Date. The Lease
Confirmation shall be binding upon Tenant unless Tenant objects to the notice in
writing delivered to Landlord within five (5) days of Tenant's receipt of said
Lease Confirmation.

     4.3   OPTION TO EXTEND.

           (a)  Subject to and upon the terms and conditions set forth below,
Tenant will have one option to extend the term of this Lease for one additional
successive period of five years (the "Renewal Term").

           (b)  Tenant's option to extend the Term must be exercised by written
notice given to Landlord (the "Renewal Notice") no less than 365 days prior to
the end of the Initial Term.

           (c)  Tenant shall not be permitted to extend the Term of this Lease
if there exists any uncured Event of Default by Tenant as of the date of the
Renewal Notice.

           (d)  The Renewal Term will be on the same terms and conditions as
this Lease except for the amount of monthly Base Rent. During the Renewal Term,
Tenant shall pay as monthly Base Rent an amount equal to the greater of (a) the
Base Rent and Additional Rent payable by Tenant immediately prior to the
commencement of the Renewal Term or (b) Market Rent for the Premises for the
Renewal Term. Market Rent during the Renewal Term shall be equal to rents
typically payable for the five year Renewal Term for comparable space by tenants
of buildings of comparable quality in the vicinity of the Premises, taking into
account the base year for the Renewal Term as described in Section 4.3(f) below.
Landlord and Tenant agree that once Tenant has timely delivered its Renewal
Notice, both parties will be responsible for their respective rights and
obligations under this Lease for the Renewal Term, regardless of the outcome of
the Base Rent determination. The word "Term" shall be used throughout this Lease
to include both the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, if applicable.

           (e)  The Market Rent for the Renewal Term will be determined as
follows:

                (i)  If Tenant properly exercises its option to extend the Term
for the Renewal Term, Landlord and Tenant shall attempt to agree as to the
Market Rent at least 270 days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term. If
Landlord and Tenant do not agree as to the Market Rent by such date, then no
later than 210 days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term, each shall
designate a real estate broker having at least ten (10) years' experience in
leasing space comparable to the Premises in the Portland metropolitan area or an
<PAGE>
MAI-certified appraiser having at least five (5) years' experience in the
appraisal of lease rates of office space in the Portland metropolitan area. The
two representatives so appointed shall determine the Market Rent for the
Premises for the Renewal Term and each shall submit a copy of his or her
determination of such Market Rent, along with supporting documentation, to
Landlord and Tenant in writing, not less than 150 days prior to the expiration
of the Initial Term. In the event a party fails to designate a representative at
least 210 days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term, the determination of
Market Rent by the representative designated by the other party shall be binding
upon the parties for purposes of this Section 4.3(e). In the event a
representative fails to submit the required written determination of Market Rent
at least 150 days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term, the determination
of the Market Rent by the other representative shall be binding upon the parties
for the purposes of this Section 4.3(e).

                (ii) If the determination of the Market Rent given by the two
representatives so appointed shall differ by less than ten percent (10%) of the
greater of such two representatives' determinations, then the Market Rent shall
be deemed to be the average of such two Market Rent determinations. In the event
such determinations differ by ten percent (10%) or more of the greater of such
two representatives' determinations, then Landlord and Tenant shall attempt to
agree on the Market Rent. If the parties are unable to reach agreement at least
90 days before the expiration of the Initial Term, the two representatives
originally designated shall designate a third representative, who shall meet the
qualifications set forth in Section 4.3(e)(i) and who shall be the arbitrator.
If the two representatives are unable to agree on an arbitrator, then either of
the parties to this Lease, after giving not less than five days' prior notice to
the other party, may apply to the presiding judge of the Multnomah County
Circuit Court for the selection, as soon as is reasonably practicable, of an
arbitrator who meets the foregoing qualifications.

                (iii) The arbitrator shall, by not later than 30 days prior to
the expiration of the Initial Term, select the more reasonable of the two Market
Rent determinations submitted by the first two representatives. The
determination of Market Rent set forth in the written submission selected by the
arbitrator shall be binding upon the parties for purposes of this Section
4.3(e).

                (iv) Landlord and Tenant shall each pay all costs of the
representative selected by it pursuant to Section 4.3(e)(i). Landlord and Tenant
shall share equally the cost of any arbitrator designated pursuant to Section
4.3(e)(ii).

                (v)  In the event the Market Rent for the Renewal Term has not
been determined by the arbitrator pursuant to the above procedure as of the
commencement of the Renewal Term, Tenant shall continue to pay monthly
installments of Base Rent based upon the Base Rent in effect as of the
expiration of the Initial Term and, within ten (10) days after the Market Rent
has been determined by the arbitrator, Tenant shall pay to Landlord the
difference between (A) the total amount that should have been paid by Tenant as
Base Rent with respect to the period from the commencement of the Renewal Term
to the date of Tenant's payment (based on the arbitrator's determination), and
(B) the total amount actually paid by Tenant with respect to such period.

           (f)  If Tenant extends the Term of this Lease as set forth above, the
"Base Year" for determining Tenant's obligation for the Operating Expense
Increase will be adjusted to the last full calendar year of the Initial Term.


                                 ARTICLE V RENT

     5.1   BASE RENT. The Base Rent ("Base Rent") shall be as set forth in
Section 1.1(k). The Base Rent shall be paid in advance on the first day of each
and every month during the Term to Landlord at the address set forth in Section
1.1(c) hereof or at such other place as Landlord may direct in writing, without
any prior notice or demand therefor and without any abatement, deduction, offset
or setoff whatsoever. If the Term commences on any day other than the first day
of a calendar month and/or ends on any day other than the last day of a calendar
month, Base Rent for the fraction(s) of a month at the commencement and/or upon
the expiration of the Term shall be prorated based upon the actual number of
days in such fractional month(s).
<PAGE>
     5.2   ADDITIONAL RENT. In addition to Base Rent, Tenant shall pay to
Landlord all sums of money or other charges required to be paid by the Tenant
under this Lease (other than Base Rent), including but not limited to Tenant's
Share of Operating Expense Increase (as defined in Article VI hereof) (all such
sums being herein deemed "Additional Rent"), and whether or not the same are
designated "Additional Rent" the same shall be payable in lawful money of the
United States of America without deduction, set-off or abatement whatsoever. Any
Additional Rent provided for in this Lease shall become due with the next
monthly installment of Base Rent unless otherwise provided. The term "Rent", as
used in this Lease, shall refer collectively to "Base Rent" and "Additional
Rent."

     5.3   LATE PAYMENT. If any payment of Rent is not received by Landlord
within five (5) days after the same is due, Tenant shall pay to Landlord a late
payment charge equal to three percent (3%) of the amount of such delinquent
payment of Rent in addition to the installment of Rent then owing, regardless of
whether or not a notice of default has been given by Landlord. In addition,
Tenant shall pay interest on such late payment and late charge from the due date
of the late payment at an interest rate equal to the higher of: (a) twelve
percent (12%) or (b) the prevailing prime (reference) rate as published by Bank
of America (or any successor bank) at its Seattle main branch office, or any
successor rate of interest, plus three (3) percentage points, but in no event
higher than the maximum rate permitted by applicable law (hereafter the "Default
Rate"), until such amounts are paid. Landlord and Tenant recognize that the
damages which Landlord will suffer as a result of Tenant's failure to timely pay
Rent are difficult or impracticable to ascertain, and agree that said interest
and late charge are a reasonable approximation of the damages which Landlord
will suffer in the event of Tenant' s late payment. This provision shall not
relieve Tenant from payment of Rent at the time and in the manner herein
specified. Acceptance by Landlord of any such interest and late charge shall not
constitute a waiver of Tenant's default with respect to said overdue amount, nor
shall it prevent Landlord from exercising any other rights or remedies available
to Landlord.

     5.4   SECURITY DEPOSIT.  Intentionally deleted.


                     ARTICLE VI ADDITIONAL RENT AND CHARGES

     6.1   OPERATING EXPENSES. In addition to Base Rent and other sums payable
by Tenant under this Lease, Tenant shall pay to Landlord, as Additional Rent,
Tenant's Share of the Operating Expense Increase (as such term is defined
below). The "Operating Expense Increase" is defined as the amount by which the
Operating Expenses of the Project in each calendar year, beginning with calendar
year 2005, exceed the Operating Expenses of the Project for the Base Year. For
the Initial Term of this Lease, the Base Year is calendar year 2004.

           (a)  ESTIMATED EXPENSES.

                (i)  Upon the Commencement Date, and thereafter prior to the
commencement of each calendar year occurring wholly or partially within the Term
or as soon as practical thereafter, Landlord shall estimate the annual Operating
Expense Increase payable by Tenant pursuant to this provision, and Tenant shall
pay to Landlord on the first day of each month in advance, one-twelfth (1/12th)
of Tenant's Share of the estimated Operating Expense Increase. Landlord's
estimate will be reasonable and based on standard real estate accounting
practices consistently and fairly applied. If Tenant requests, Landlord will
provide Tenant with reasonably detailed documentation to support Landlord's
estimate. In the event that during any calendar year of the Term, Landlord
reasonably determines that the actual Operating Expense Increase for such year
will exceed the estimated Operating Expense Increase, Landlord may revise such
estimate by written notice to Tenant, and Tenant shall pay to Landlord,
concurrently with the regular monthly rent payment next due following the
receipt of the revised estimate, an amount equal to the difference between the
initial monthly estimate and the revised monthly estimate multiplied by the
number of months expired during such calendar year and shall also pay an amount
equal to the revised monthly estimate for the month of such payment. Subsequent
installments shall be payable concurrently with the regular monthly Base Rent
due for the balance of the calendar year and shall continue until the next
calendar year's estimate is rendered or Landlord next revises its estimate of
the Operating Expense Increase, whichever occurs sooner .

                (ii) Within one hundred twenty (120) days following the end of
each year or a reasonable time thereafter, Landlord shall provide Tenant with a
written statement (the "Statement") of the actual total Operating Expenses for
such year, showing in reasonable detail (A) the actual Operating Expenses for
the calendar year, broken down by component expenses, such as repairs,
administration, utilities, janitorial, and Real Property Taxes; (B) the Base
<PAGE>
Year Operating Expenses; (C) the Operating Expense Increase for the calendar
year; (D) the amount of Tenant's Share of the Operating Expense Increase; (E)
the amount actually paid by Tenant during the calendar year toward the Operating
Expense Increase; (F) the amount Tenant owes toward the Operating Expense
Increase or the amount Landlord owes as a refund, and (G) the "gross-up"
information required by Section 6.1(a)(iii) of this Lease. If Tenant has
overpaid the amount of the Operating Expense Increase owing pursuant to this
provision, Landlord shall, provided Tenant is not then in default hereunder
beyond any applicable cure period, return to Tenant the amount of such
overpayment within thirty (30) days after Landlord's itemized Statement is
delivered to Tenant. If Tenant has underpaid the amount of the Operating Expense
Increase owing pursuant to this provision, Tenant shall pay the total amount of
such deficiency to Landlord as Additional Rent with the next payment of Base
Rent due under this Lease following delivery of written notice of said
deficiency from Landlord to Tenant.

                (iii)In the event the average occupancy level of the Building or
Project, as the case may be, for any calendar year was or is not one hundred
percent (100%) of full occupancy, then the estimated Operating Expenses and
actual Operating Expenses for such year shall be proportionately adjusted by
Landlord to reflect those costs which would have occurred had the Building
and/or Project, as the case may be, been one hundred percent (100%) occupied
during such year. Such adjustment shall be based on Landlord's reasonable
estimate consistently and fairly applied using standard real estate practices in
the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area.

                (iv) Landlord shall keep its books of account and records
concerning Operating Expenses in compliance with generally accepted standard
real estate practices and retain the same for two (2) years after the calendar
year for which they were prepared. Unless Tenant objects in writing regarding
specific discrepancies in the Operating Expense calculations for any calendar
year within 270 days after receipt of Landlord's final calculations for such
calendar year, Tenant shall be deemed to have approved the same and to have
waived the right to object to such calculations. Tenant, upon at least ten (10)
days' advance written notice to Landlord and during business hours, may examine
any invoices, receipts, canceled checks, vouchers or other records used to
support the figures shown on the Statement, provided, however, that Tenant shall
be entitled to such an examination only once in each calendar year and such
examination shall only be of the Operating Expenses for the calendar year shown
on the Statement. Tenant may only audit a specific calendar year once. Landlord
may condition such review upon Tenant's (and its auditor's) execution of a
reasonable form of confidentiality agreement. Except as provided in Section
6.1(a)(v) below, all costs of the review shall be borne by Tenant. If Tenant
examines or audits Landlord's books and records under Section 6.1(a)(iv) or
Section 6.1(a)(v)more than twice during the Term, Tenant shall reimburse all
costs, fees, and expenses incurred by Landlord and its property manager in
connection with the examination or audit, including, without limitation,
photocopy charges, and administration fees for the time spent in connection with
the audit or examination. All audits and examinations conducted by Tenant shall
be conducted by an independent auditor with at least five years experience with
standard real estate accounting practices in the Portland, Oregon area and such
auditor shall not be compensated on a contingency fee basis.

                (v)  Each Statement given by Landlord pursuant to this Section
shall be conclusive and binding upon Tenant unless within 270 days after the
receipt of such Statement Tenant shall notify Landlord that it disputes the
correctness of the Statement, specifying the particular respects in which the
Statement is claimed to be incorrect. If such disputes shall not have been
settled by agreement, Tenant, at Tenant's expense, and after giving Landlord
reasonable advance notice, may cause an examination or audit to be made of
Landlord's books and records relating to such Statement by a certified public
accountant, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 6.1(a)(iv). If the
examination or audit discloses an error in the billings to Tenant, Tenant shall
promptly pay the underpayment. If Landlord does not dispute the results of the
audit, Landlord shall promptly pay to Tenant the overpayment, and if there has
been an overpayment of greater than five percent (5%) of the amount of estimated
Operating Expenses for the year in question, Landlord shall reimburse Tenant for
the reasonable cost of the examination or audit. If Landlord disputes the
results of the audit, Landlord and Tenant shall engage an independent certified
public accountant (the "CPA") who shall resolve the dispute by choosing the
results of Tenant's audit or Landlord's position. If the CPA agrees with Tenant,
Landlord shall pay the fees of the CPA. If the CPA agrees with Landlord, Tenant
shall pay the fees of the CPA.
<PAGE>
           (b)  DEFINED TERMS.

                (i)  OPERATING EXPENSES INCLUSIONS. For purposes of this Lease,
"Operating Expenses" means an amount equivalent to the total of all expenses and
costs incurred in connection with the ownership, operation, management,
maintenance, repair and replacement of the Project, the Building and the Common
Areas, including, but in no way limited to, the following:

                     A. The costs of operating, maintaining, repairing and
replacing the Project, the Building and the Common Areas, including but not
limited to: gardening and landscaping; painting; lighting; sanitary control;
personal property taxes; public liability insurance and property damage
insurance; utilities for Common Areas; licenses and fees for Common Area
facilities; sweeping; removal of snow and ice, trash, rubbish, garbage and other
refuse; repairing, restriping and resurfacing of parking area; and maintenance
of and property taxes on personal property, machinery and equipment used in
Common Area maintenance.

                     B. All Real Property Taxes (as defined below) assessed
against the Project, the Building and/or the Common Areas, as applicable,
including land, building(s) (including the Building) and improvements thereon or
thereto.

                     C. All premiums for liability, terrorism, fire, extended
coverage and other insurance the Landlord reasonably deems necessary and keeps
in force on or with respect to the Project, the Building of which the Premises
are a part and/or the Common Areas, as the case may be, and commercially
reasonable deductibles payable in connection therewith.

                     D. The cost of operating, maintaining, repairing and
replacing any electrical, mechanical, automatic fire sprinkler and other
utilities systems serving the Premises which serve the Premises in common with
the entire Building.

                     E. The cost of maintenance, repair and replacement of the
structural and non-structural portions of the roof, roof membrane, exterior
walls, foundation, and other exterior portions of the Project and Building, and
reasonable reserves for the same.

                     F. Reasonable property management charges together with the
costs incurred in the operation of a management office relating to the Project,
including, but not limited to the cost of rent and utilities with respect
thereto, not to exceed the amount charged by an owner or an independent
management company of comparable quality and experience.

                     G. Annual amortization of capital improvements (x) made
subsequent to the Commencement Date which are designed with a reasonable
probability of improving the operating efficiency of the Project, or some part
thereof, or (y) which are reasonably required under any amendment to any
applicable law, any new law, or any new interpretation (as hereinafter defined)
which amendment, law, or new interpretation is adopted or arose after the
Commencement Date of this Lease, or (z) made subsequent to the Commencement Date
and which are repairs or replacements of initial improvements. For the purposes
of this Lease, a "new interpretation" shall mean any interpretation, enforcement
or application occurring after the Commencement Date of a law enacted prior to
the Commencement Date, which interpretation, enforcement or application imposes
requirements with respect to the Project or Building that were not at the time
of Landlord's execution of this Lease, applicable to the Project or Building.
Annual amortization shall be determined by dividing the applicable capital
expenditure over the useful life of such capital expenditure (as determined by
GAAP) at an interest rate equal to the Prime Rate of Wells Fargo Bank plus two
percent (2%).

                     H. Any other costs levied, assessed or imposed by or at the
direction of, or resulting from statutes or regulations or interpretations
thereof promulgated by any federal or governmental authority in connection with
the use or occupancy of the Project.
<PAGE>
                     I. Assessments made on or with respect to the Project made
pursuant to any CC&Rs, Local Improvement District conditions and/or owner's
associations affecting the Project, or any portion thereof.

                     J. Compensation (including wages and employer paid benefits
and taxes ) of employees and contractors engaged in the operation and
maintenance of the Project, and/or Building.

                (ii) OPERATING EXPENSE EXCLUSIONS. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, Operating Expenses to be reimbursed by Tenant shall not include:

                     A. Expenses which are separately metered or calculated for
the Premises or other leased area of the Project or the Building, as the case
may be, which expenses shall be billed separately to Tenant or such other
tenant(s), as applicable.

                     B. Costs incurred in connection with the initial
construction or design of the Building or to correct defects in the original
construction or design of the Building.

                     C. Depreciation.

                     D. Costs, fines or penalties incurred due to violation by
Landlord of any applicable law.

                     E. Expenses incurred by Landlord in respect of individual
tenants and/or the improvement or renovation of tenants' leasehold improvements,
including leasing commissions, attorneys' fees arising from lease disputes
arising out of a tenant's failure to pay rent under its lease and other specific
costs incurred for the account of, separately billed to and paid by specific
tenants.

                     F. Repairs or replacements to the extent that the cost of
the same is recoverable by the Landlord pursuant to original construction
warranties.

                     G. Interest on debt or capital retirement of debt, and
costs of capital improvements except as expressly provided above.

                     H. Legal fees and disbursements relating to the entity that
owns the Project.

                     I. Costs incurred due to the gross negligence of Landlord
or breach by Landlord of its obligations under any lease.

                     J. Fines or penalties incurred due to violation by Landlord
of any applicable law.

                     K. Costs incurred because Landlord breached the terms of
any lease.

                     L. Overhead and profit paid to subsidiaries or affiliates
of Landlord for management or other services on or to the Project or for
supplies or other materials, to the extent that the costs of the services,
supplies or materials exceed the amount customarily charged by an independent
entity for similar services, supplies or materials of same or better quality.

                     M. Compensation paid to clerks, attendants and other
persons in commercial concessions operated by Landlord.

                     N. Advertising and promotional expenditures (except for
Project identification and directional signage).
<PAGE>
                     O. Repairs or other work needed because of fire, windstorm
or other casualty or cause insured against by Landlord to the extent Landlord
receives insurance proceeds therefor.

                     P. Costs of sculpture, paintings or other art.

                     Q. Legal fees, costs, and disbursements relating to (i)
disputes with tenants, (ii) enforcing any leases, or (iii) the defense of
Landlord's title to, or interest in, the Buildings or Project.

                     R. Costs incurred due to the intentional misconduct or
intentional breach by Landlord of its obligations under any lease.

                     S. Landlord's general corporate overhead and administrative
expenses.

                     T. Costs of capital improvements and replacements except as
permitted under Section 6.1(b)(i)(G).

     Additional Rent payable by Tenant which would not otherwise be due until
after the date of the expiration or earlier termination of the Lease shall, if
the exact amount is uncertain at the time this Lease expires or terminates, be
paid by Tenant to Landlord upon such expiration or termination in an amount to
be reasonably determined by Landlord, with an adjustment to be made once the
exact amount is known.

                (iii)TENANT'S SHARE. For purposes of this Lease, "Tenant 's
Share" means the percentage, as set forth in Section 1.1(o) or Section 1.1(p),
as appropriate, and obtained by dividing the rentable area of the Premises by
the aggregate rentable area of all premises available for lease, whether leased
or not, in the Building or the Project, as applicable with respect to any
specific Operating Expense, subject to adjustment in the event of changes in
rentable area of the Project, Building and/or Premises. Notwithstanding the
above, Landlord shall have the right, but not the obligation, to equitably
adjust Tenant's Share of any specific Operating Expense so as to render such
expense payable proportionately by those tenants benefited by the same or
otherwise in order to appropriately allocate such Operating Expense to cover the
area covered by such Operating Expense.

                (iv) REAL PROPERTY TAXES. For purposes of this Lease, "Real
Property Taxes" shall consist of all real estate taxes and all other taxes
relating to the Building, the Project, the Common Areas and/or the Project, as
applicable, all other taxes which may be levied in lieu of real estate taxes,
all assessments, local improvement districts, assessment bonds, levies, fees and
other governmental charges, including, but not limited to, charges for traffic
facilities and improvements, water service studies, and improvements or amounts
necessary to be expended because of governmental orders, whether general or
special, ordinary or extraordinary, unforeseen as well as foreseen, of any kind
and nature for public improvements, services, benefits, or any other purpose,
which are assessed, levied, confirmed, imposed or become a lien upon the
Building or any portion of the Project, and/or the Common Areas, or become
payable during the Term (or which become payable after the expiration or earlier
termination hereof and are attributable in whole or in part to any period during
the Term hereof), together with all costs and expenses incurred by Landlord in
successfully contesting, resisting or appealing any such taxes, rates, duties,
levies or assessments. Any special assessments which may be paid in installments
shall be deemed paid over the longest period allowable by law and only the
installment due in any calendar year shall be included in Real Property Taxes.
"Real Property Taxes" shall exclude any franchise, estate, inheritance or
succession transfer tax of Landlord, or any federal or state income, profits or
revenue tax or charge upon the net income of Landlord from all sources;
provided, however, that if at any time during the Term there is levied or
assessed against Landlord a federal, state or local tax or excise tax on rent,
or any other tax however described on account of rent or gross receipts or any
portion thereof, Tenant shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of the Tenant's
Share of any said tax or excise applicable to Tenant's Rent as Additional Rent.

           (c)  POLICY STATEMENT. The purpose of this Section 6.1 is to fairly
reimburse Landlord for the increased costs of those Operating Expenses for
operating, maintaining, repairing, and managing the Buildings which benefit all
of the Buildings' tenants. The reimbursement is not intended to provide an
additional source of profit to Landlord. Accordingly, the purpose described
above and the following principles are a statement of the parties' intent
regarding Section 6.1:
<PAGE>
                (i)  Landlord will operate, maintain, repair, and manage the
Building in a manner of at least the quality as other comparable buildings in
Portland, Oregon.

                (ii) Landlord shall perform its obligation set forth in Section
6.1 in a cost-effective manner.

                (iii)The Operating Expenses shall be fairly and accurately
calculated by Landlord.

                (iv) Examples of fair calculations include the exclusions in
Section 6.1(b)(ii), and not charging for the same service in two different
categories (such as an in-house manager and a management fee).

     6.2   ADJUSTMENTS.

           (a)  CREDITS/REIMBURSEMENTS. Operating Expenses shall be reduced by
reimbursements, credits, discounts, reductions, or other allowances received by
Landlord for items of cost included in Operating Expenses.

           (b)  TAX REFUND. If Landlord receives a refund of any portion of Real
Property Taxes that were included in the Operating Expenses actually paid by
Tenant as an increase over the Real Property taxes for the Base Year, then
Landlord shall reimburse Tenant Tenant's Share of the refunded taxes to the
extent actually paid by Tenant, less any expenses that Landlord reasonably
incurred to obtain the refund.

           (c)  PRORATIONS. If this Lease (or an extended term hereof) begins or
ends on a day other than the last day of a calendar year, Tenant's obligation to
pay Tenant's Share of the Operating Expense Increase for that calendar year
shall be prorated by multiplying Tenant's Share of that Operating Expense
Increase by a fraction expressed as a percentage, the numerator of which is the
number of days of the calendar year included within the Term of this Lease and
the denominator of which is 365.

     6.3   TENANT'S PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES. Tenant shall pay or cause to be
paid, prior to delinquency, any and all taxes and assessments levied upon all
trade fixtures, inventories and other real or personal property placed or
installed in and upon the Premises by Tenant. If any such taxes on Tenant's
personal property or trade fixtures are levied against Landlord or Landlord's
property or if the assessed value of the Building is increased by the inclusion
therein of a value placed upon such real or personal property or trade fixtures
of Tenant, and if Landlord pays the taxes based upon such increased assessment,
Tenant shall, upon demand, repay to Landlord the taxes so levied or the portion
of such taxes resulting from such increase in the assessment.


                              ARTICLE VII INSURANCE

     7.1   LANDLORD'S INSURANCE. During the Term, Landlord shall procure and
maintain in full force and effect with respect to the Building (i) a policy or
policies of standard "all-risk" fire insurance with extended coverage against
damage and destruction by fire, vandalism, and all other "all risk" perils. The
amount of such insurance shall be equal to the full replacement value of the
Building, as the value may exist from time to time (including, to the extent
required, sprinkler leakage, vandalism and malicious mischief coverage, and any
other endorsements required by the holder of any fee or leasehold mortgage and
earthquake, flood and terrorism insurance to the extent Landlord reasonably
deems prudent and/or to the extent required by any mortgagee); and (ii) a policy
of commercial general liability insurance, in the form and content acceptable to
Landlord, insuring Landlord's activities with respect to the Premises, the
Common Areas and the Project for loss, damage or liability for personal injury
or death of any person or loss or damage to property occurring in, upon or about
the Premises, Common Areas or Project. If the annual premiums charged Landlord
for such casualty and/or liability insurance exceed the standard premium rates
because the nature of Tenant's operations results in increased exposure, then
Tenant shall, upon receipt of appropriate premium invoices, reimburse Landlord
for such increased amount. Landlord shall have the right, at its option, to keep
<PAGE>
and maintain in full force and effect during the Term such other insurance in
such amounts and on such terms as Landlord and/or any mortgagees or the
beneficiary of any first trust deed against the Building, or the portion of the
Project, may reasonably require from time to time in form, in amounts and for
insurance risks against which a prudent Landlord would protect itself, including
but not limited to rental abatement, rental interruption, earthquake, flood and
terrorism insurance.

     7.2   TENANT'S PUBLIC LIABILITY. Tenant shall, at its own cost and expense,
keep and maintain in full force during the Term and any other period of
occupancy of the Premises by Tenant, a policy or policies of commercial general
liability insurance, written by a reputable insurance company authorized to do
business in the State of Oregon in form and content reasonably acceptable to
Landlord insuring Tenant's activities with respect to the Premises, the Common
Areas and the Project for loss, damage or liability for personal injury or death
of any person or loss or damage to property occurring in, upon or about the
Premises in an amount of not less than Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000)
combined single limit or such larger amounts as may hereafter be reasonably
requested by Landlord. The policy shall insure the hazards of the Premises and
Tenant's operations therein, shall include independent contractor and
contractual liability coverage (covering the indemnity contained in Section 7.8
hereof) and shall (a) name Landlord, Landlord's managing agent and the
Landlord's mortgagee under a mortgage or beneficiary under a deed of trust
either having a lien against the Building or Project (the "Lender") as an
additional insured; (b) contain a cross-liability provision and; (c) contain a
provision that the insurance provided hereunder shall be primary and
non-contributing with any other insurance available to Landlord.

     7.3   TENANT'S PROPERTY AND OTHER INSURANCE. Tenant shall, at its own cost
and expense, keep and maintain in full force during the Term and any other
period of occupancy of the Premises, a policy or policies of standard form
property insurance insuring against the perils of fire, extended coverage,
vandalism, malicious mischief, special extended coverage and sprinkler leakage.
This insurance policy shall be upon all property owned by Tenant, for which
Tenant is legally liable or that was installed at Tenant's expense, and which is
located in the Premises, including without limitation, furniture, fittings,
installations, cabling, fixtures (other than the improvements installed by
Landlord), and any other personal property, in the amount of not less than one
hundred percent (100%) of the full replacement costs thereof.

     7.4   FORM OF INSURANCE/CERTIFICATES. All policies shall be written in a
form satisfactory to Landlord and shall be taken out with insurance companies
licensed in the state in which the Building is located and holding a General
Policy Holder' s Rating of "A" and a financial rating of "X" or better, as set
forth in the most current issues of Best's Insurance Guide. Each party shall
furnish to the other, prior to the Commencement Date and thereafter within ten
(10) days prior to the expiration of each such policy, a certificate of
insurance (or renewal thereof) issued by the insurance carrier of each policy of
insurance carried by the party pursuant hereto and, upon request by the other
party, a copy of each such policy of insurance. Said certificates shall
expressly provide that such policies shall not be cancelable or subject to
reduction of coverage below the minimum amounts required by this Lease or
required by any lender having an interest in the Building or otherwise be
subject to modification except after thirty (30) days prior written notice to
the parties named as insured in Section 7.2.

     7.5   TENANT'S FAILURE. If Tenant fails to maintain any insurance required
in the Lease, Tenant shall be liable for any loss or cost resulting from said
failure, and Landlord shall have the right to obtain such insurance on Tenant's
behalf and at Tenant's sole expense. This Section 7.5 shall not be deemed to be
a waiver of any of Landlord's rights and remedies under any other section of
this Lease. If Landlord obtains any insurance which is the responsibility of
Tenant to obtain under this Article VII, Landlord shall deliver to Tenant a
written statement setting forth the cost of any such insurance and showing in
reasonable detail the manner in which it has been computed and Tenant shall
promptly remit said amount as Additional Rent to Landlord.

     7.6   WAIVER OF SUBROGATION. Any all risk policy or policies of fire,
extended coverage or similar casualty insurance which either party obtains in
connection with the Building, the Premises or Tenant's personal property therein
shall include a clause or endorsement denying the insurer any rights of
subrogation against the other party to the extent rights have been waived by the
insured prior to the occurrence of injury or loss. Landlord and Tenant waive any
rights of recovery against the other for liability, injury or loss due to
hazards covered by insurance containing such a waiver of subrogation clause or
endorsement to the extent of the liability, injury or loss covered thereby.
<PAGE>
     7.7   TENANT'S PROPERTIES AND FIXTURES. Tenant assumes the risk of damage
to any furniture, equipment, machinery, goods, supplies or fixtures which are or
remain the property of Tenant or as to which Tenant retains the right of removal
from the Premises, except to the extent due to the gross negligence or willful
misconduct of Landlord. Tenant shall not do or keep anything in or about the
Premises (except those things Tenant presently does and keeps in connection with
the uses set forth in Section 10.1) which will in any way tend to increase
insurance rates paid by Landlord and maintained with respect to the Premises
and/or the Project unless Tenant pays directly to Landlord the increase cost of
the premiums. In no event shall Tenant carry on any activities which would
invalidate any insurance coverage maintained by Landlord. If at any time
Tenant's occupancy or business in, or on, the Premises, whether or not Landlord
has consented to the same, results in any increase in premiums for the insurance
carried by Landlord with respect to the Building and/or the Project, Tenant
shall pay any such increase in premiums as Additional Rent within ten (10) days
after being billed therefore by Landlord. In determining whether increased
premiums are a result of Tenant's use of the Building, a schedule issued by the
organization computing the insurance rate on the Building and/or the Project
showing the various components of such rate shall be conclusive evidence of the
several items and charges which make up such rate. Tenant shall promptly comply
with all reasonable requirements of the insurance underwriters and/or any
governmental authority having jurisdiction thereover, necessary for the
maintenance of reasonable fire and extended insurance for the Building and/or
the Project.

     7.8   INDEMNIFICATION.

           (a) Tenant, as a material part of the consideration to be rendered to
Landlord, hereby indemnifies and agrees to defend and hold Landlord, Landlord's
managing agent and Lender, the Premises, and the Project harmless for, from and
against (i) any and all liability, penalties, losses, damages, costs and
expenses, demands, causes of action, claims, judgments or appeals arising from
any injury to any person or persons or any damage to any property to the extent
as a result of Tenant's or Tenants' officers, employees, agents, assignees,
subtenants, concessionaires, licensees, contractors or invitees' use,
maintenance, occupation, operation or control of the Premises during the Term,
or resulting from any breach or default in the performance of any obligation to
be performed by Tenant hereunder or for which Tenant is responsible under the
terms of this Lease or pursuant to any governmental or insurance requirement, or
to the extent arising from any act, neglect, fault or omission of Tenant or any
of Tenant's officers, employees, agents, servants, subtenants, concessionaires,
licensees, contractors or invitees, and (ii) from and against all reasonable
legal costs and charges, including reasonable attorneys' and other reasonable
professional fees, incurred in and about any of such matters and the defense of
any action arising out of the same or in discharging the Project and/or Premises
or any part thereof from any and all liens, charges or judgments which may
accrue or be placed thereon by reason of any act or omission of the Tenant,
except and to the extent as may arise out of the negligence or willful
misconduct of Landlord and/or its agents, officers, employees, contractors or
invitees.

           (b)  Landlord, as a material part of the consideration to be rendered
to Tenant, hereby indemnifies and agrees to defend and hold Tenant and the
Premises harmless from and against (i) any and all liability, penalties, losses,
damages, costs and expenses, demands, causes of action, claims, judgments or
appeals arising from any injury to any person or persons or any damage to any
property to the extent as a result of Landlord's or Landlord's employees,
agents, or contractors, gross negligence or willful misconduct, or resulting
from any breach or default in the performance of any obligation to be performed
by Landlord hereunder or for which Landlord is responsible under the terms of
the Lease or pursuant to any governmental or insurance requirement, and (ii)
from and against all reasonable legal costs and charges, including reasonable
attorneys' and other reasonable professional fees, incurred in and about any of
such matters and the defense of any action arising out of the same or in
discharging Tenant and/or Premises or any part thereof from any and all liens,
charges or judgments which may accrue or be placed thereon by reason of any act
or omission of the Landlord, except and to the extent as may arise out of the
negligence or willful misconduct of Tenant and/or its officers, agents,
employees, assignees, subtenants, concessionaires, licensees, contractors, or
invitees.

           (c)  In no event shall Landlord, its agents, employees and/or
contractors be liable for any personal injury or death or property damage caused
by other lessees or persons in or about the Premises, the Project and/or the
Building, as the case may be, or caused by public or quasi-public work, or for
<PAGE>
consequential damages arising out of any loss of the use of the Premises or any
equipment or facilities therein by Tenant or any person claiming through or
under Tenant.

     7.9   DAMAGE TO TENANT'S PROPERTY. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 7.8 to the contrary, except to the extent due to the gross negligence or
willful misconduct of Landlord, Landlord, its agents, employees and/or
contractors shall not be liable for (i) any damage to property entrusted to
employees or security officers of the Project or the Building, (ii) loss or
damage to any property by theft or otherwise, or (iii) any injury or damage to
persons or property resulting from fire, explosion, falling substances or
materials, steam, gas, electricity, water or rain which may leak from any part
of the Building, the Common Areas, or the Project or from the pipes, appliances
or plumbing work therein or from the roof, street, or subsurface or from any
other place or resulting from dampness or any other cause, except to the extent
Landlord receives consideration for such damage or injury from a third party.
Neither Landlord nor its agents, employees or contractors shall be liable for
interference with light. Tenant shall give prompt notice to Landlord and
appropriate emergency response officials if Tenant is or becomes aware of fire
or accidents in the Building, the Common Areas or any other portion of the
Project or of defects therein in the fixtures or equipment.


                      ARTICLE VIII REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE

     8.1   LANDLORD REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE. Subject to Landlord's right to
reimbursement from Tenant pursuant to Sections 6.1 and 8.3, Landlord shall at
its expense maintain in good condition and repair the Building including without
limitation the foundation, roof and membrane and shall maintain in good
condition the exterior of the Building, utilities, the Building systems
(including HVAC, plumbing, electrical, and mechanical), common area doors,
windows, and walls, and light fixtures, and the Common Areas of the Project.
Landlord shall not be liable for any failure to make any repairs or to perform
any maintenance unless such failure shall persist for an unreasonable time after
written notice of the need for such repairs or maintenance is given to Landlord
by Tenant. There shall be no abatement of Rent and, except for the gross
negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord or its employees, no liability of
Landlord by reason of any injury to or interference with Tenant's business
arising from the making of any repairs, alterations or improvement in or to any
portion of the Premises or in or to fixtures, appurtenances and equipment
therein; provided, that Landlord, its employees, agents and contractors use
reasonable efforts not to unreasonably interfere with Tenant's business in
exercise of Landlord's rights or obligations hereunder. Except as may otherwise
be expressly set forth herein, Tenant affirms that (a) neither Landlord nor any
agent, employee or officer of Landlord has made any representation regarding the
condition of the Premises, the Building, the Common Areas or the Project, and
(b) Landlord shall not be obligated to undertake any repair, alteration,
remodel, improvement, painting or decorating.

     8.2   UTILITIES AND SERVICES. Subject to reimbursement pursuant to Sections
6.1 and 8.3, Landlord shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Premises
water, natural gas for hot water, electricity, sewage, heating, ventilating, air
conditioning services, and janitorial services of the quality provided to office
buildings of similar quality, style, and age in the Portland metropolitan area.
Tenant shall pay before delinquency, at its sole cost and expense, all charges
for water, heat, electricity, power, telephone service, sewer service charges
and other utilities or services charged or attributable directly to the
Premises; provided, however, that if any such services or utilities shall be
billed to Landlord and are not separately billed to the Premises, Tenant shall
pay to Landlord as Additional Rent, an amount equal to that proportion of the
total charges therefor which the rentable area of the Premises bears to the
rentable area of leased area covered by such charges. Notwithstanding the above,
in the event Tenant uses any heating, ventilating and air conditioning services
during non-standard building hours, or if Tenant uses any utility services
beyond standard office usage as reasonably determined by Landlord, Tenant shall
pay the actual cost of such after-hours services or above-standard services, as
the case may be, used by Tenant based on Landlord's reasonable estimate
therefor. At Landlord's option, Landlord may install separate meters to measure
above-standard consumption of services. Tenant shall reimburse the costs of the
purchase and installation of such meters within 15 days after Landlord's billing
therefor.

     8.3   TENANT REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE. Tenant shall, at its expense, (a)
keep the Premises and fixtures in good order, and keep Tenant's personal
property in good order and repair; and (b) make repairs and replacements to the
Premises and pay Landlord for the repairs or replacements to the Buildings if
any such repairs or replacements are needed because of Tenant's misuse or
primary negligence, except to the extent that a claim for such repairs or
replacements is waived under Section 7.6. Upon expiration or earlier termination
<PAGE>
of the Term, Tenant shall surrender the Premises to Landlord in the same
condition as when leased except for (i) ordinary wear and tear, (ii) damage by
the elements, fire, or other casualty not required to be repaired, replaced or
paid for by Tenant pursuant to this Lease, (iii) condemnation, and (iv)
alterations as permitted under this Lease unless consent was conditioned on
their removal.

     8.4   NON-LIABILITY OF LANDLORD. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above or elsewhere in this Lease, but except as
expressly provided below, Landlord shall not be in default hereunder or be
liable for any damages directly or indirectly resulting from, nor shall the Rent
herein reserved be abated or rebated by reason of (a) the interruption or
curtailment of the use of the Premises as a result of the installation of any
equipment in connection with the Building or Project; or (b) any failure to
furnish or delay in furnishing any services required to be provided by Landlord,
unless and to the extent such failure or delay is caused by any condition
created by Landlord's active gross negligence; or (c) the limitation,
curtailment, rationing or restriction of the use of water or electricity, gas or
any other form of energy or any other service or utility whatsoever serving the
Premises or Project. However, if, as a result of Landlord's act or omission,
Landlord causes one of the events described in clause (a), (b), or (c) of this
paragraph, and as a result of such event, the Premises are rendered unsuitable
for Tenant's use and Tenant, in fact does not occupy the Premises for its
business operations for seven consecutive days, Base Rent shall abate beginning
on the eighth consecutive day and continuing until such time as the Premises are
again rendered suitable for Tenant's use.

     8.5   INSPECTION OF PREMISES. Landlord may enter the Premises to complete
construction undertaken by Landlord on the Premises, to inspect, clean, improve
or repair the same, to inspect the performance by Tenant of the terms and
conditions hereof, show the Premises to prospective purchasers, tenants and
lenders and for all other purposes as Landlord shall reasonably deem necessary
or appropriate; provided, that Landlord shall use reasonable efforts not to
interfere with Tenant's business in exercise of Landlord's rights hereunder.
Tenant hereby waives any claim for damages for any injury or inconvenience to or
interference with Tenant's business, any loss of occupancy or quiet enjoyment of
the Premises and any other loss in, upon or about the Premises, arising from
exercise by Landlord of its rights hereunder except as otherwise provided in
Article XI hereof.

     8.6   ACCESS BY TENANT. Tenant and its employees, agents, and invitees
shall have access to the Premises 24 hours a day, seven days a week, subject to
restrictions due to governmental regulation, casualty, and weather.


             ARTICLE IX FIXTURES, PERSONAL PROPERTY AND ALTERATIONS

     9.1   FIXTURES AND PERSONAL PROPERTY. Tenant, at Tenant's expense, may
install any necessary trade fixtures, equipment and furniture in the Premises,
provided that such items are installed and are removable without damage to the
structure of the Premises , including, but not limited to, damage to drywall,
doors, door frames and floors. Landlord reserves the right to approve or
disapprove of any interior improvements which are visible from outside the
Premises or which violate the CC&R's on wholly aesthetic grounds, but such
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Such
improvements must be submitted for Landlord's written approval prior to
installation, or Landlord may remove or replace such items at Tenant's sole
expense. Said trade fixtures, equipment, furniture and personal property shall
remain Tenant's property and shall be removed by Tenant upon the expiration or
earlier termination of the Lease. As a covenant which shall survive the
expiration or earlier termination of the Lease, Tenant shall repair, at Tenant's
sole expense, or at Landlord's election, reimburse Landlord for the cost to
repair all damage caused by the installation or removal of said trade fixtures,
equipment, furniture, personal property or temporary improvements. If Tenant
fails to remove the foregoing items prior to or upon the expiration or earlier
termination of this Lease, Landlord, at its option and without liability to
Tenant for loss thereof, may keep and use them or remove any or all of them and
cause them to be stored or sold in accordance with applicable law, and Tenant
shall, upon demand of Landlord, pay to Landlord as Additional Rent hereunder all
costs and expenses incurred by Landlord in so storing and/or selling said items.
In the event any such fixtures, equipment, and/or furniture of Tenant are sold
by Landlord, the proceeds of such sale shall be applied, first, to all expenses
of Landlord incurred in connection with storage and sale; second, to any amounts
owed by Tenant to Landlord under this Lease or otherwise, and, third, the
remainder, if any, shall be paid to Tenant.

     9.2   ALTERATIONS. Tenant shall not make or allow to be made any material
alterations, additions or improvements to the Premises (defined as alterations,
additions or improvements costing in excess of $1,000.00 individually or in the
<PAGE>
aggregate with respect to separate items relating to the same improvement or
alteration or any alterations, additions or improvements that affect the
structure or exterior of the Building or any building, mechanical, electrical or
life safety system), either at the inception of the Lease or subsequently during
the Term, without obtaining the prior written consent of Landlord which consent
may be withheld in Landlord's sole discretion with respect to any alteration,
addition or improvement that affects the structure or exterior of the Building
or any building, mechanical, electrical or life safety systems. Tenant shall
deliver to Landlord the contractor's name, references and state license number,
a certificate of liability insurance naming Landlord and Landlord' s manager and
lender(s) as an additional insured, as well as full and complete plans and
specifications of all such alterations, additions or improvements, and any
subsequent modifications or additions to such plans and specifications, and no
proposed work shall be commenced or continued by Tenant until Landlord has
received and given its written approval of each of the foregoing. Landlord shall
either approve or disapprove any proposed alteration, addition or improvement on
or before fifteen (15) days following receipt of all of the foregoing items.
Landlord does not expressly or implicitly covenant or warrant that any plans or
specifications submitted by Tenant are accurate, safe or sufficient or that the
same comply with any applicable laws, ordinances, building codes, or the like.
Further, Tenant shall indemnify, protect, defend and hold Landlord and
Landlord's agents, employees and contractors harmless for, from and against any
loss, damage, liability, claims, cost or expense, including attorneys' fees and
costs, incurred as a result of any defects in design, materials or workmanship
resulting from Tenant's alterations, additions or improvements to the Premises.
All alterations, telephone or telecommunications lines, cables, conduits and
equipment and all other additions or improvements to the Premises made by Tenant
shall remain the property of Tenant until termination of this Lease, at which
time they shall, unless otherwise elected by Landlord by written notice to
Tenant, be and become the property of Landlord. Landlord may, as a condition to
approval of any such alterations, additions or improvements, require Tenant to
remove any partitions, counters, railings, telephone and telecommunications
lines, cables, conduits and equipment and/or other improvements installed by
Tenant during the Term, and Tenant shall repair all damage resulting from such
removal or, at Landlord's option, shall pay to Landlord all costs arising from
such removal. All repairs, alterations, additions and restorations by Tenant
hereinafter required or permitted shall be done in a good and workmanlike manner
and in compliance with the plans and specifications approved by Landlord and in
compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances, building codes, bylaws,
regulations and orders of any federal, state, county, municipal or other public
authority and of the insurers of the Premises and as-built plans and
specifications shall be provided to Landlord by Tenant upon completion of the
work. If required by Landlord, and only if Tenant is not Schnitzer Steel
Industries, Inc., Tenant shall secure at Tenant's own cost and expense a
completion and lien indemnity bond or other adequate security, including without
limitation an indemnity agreement from Tenant's parent in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to Landlord. Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for
Landlord's reasonable out-of-pocket costs (including any professional fees
incurred by Landlord and a reasonable administrative fee payable to Landlord's
manager) for reviewing and approving or disapproving plans and specifications
for any proposed alterations and observing the alterations.

     9.3   LIENS. Tenant shall promptly file and/or record, as applicable, all
notices of completion provided for by law, and shall pay and discharge all
claims for work or labor done, supplies furnished or services rendered at the
request of Tenant or at the request of Landlord on behalf of Tenant, and shall
keep the Premises and the Project free and clear of all mechanics' and
materialmen's liens in connection therewith. Landlord shall have the right, and
shall be given ten (10) business days written notice by Tenant prior to
commencement of the work, to post or keep posted on the Premises, or in the
immediate vicinity thereof, any notices of non-responsibility for any
construction, alteration, or repair of the Premises by Tenant. If any such lien
is filed, Tenant shall cause same to be discharged of record within ten (10)
days following written notice thereof, or if Tenant disputes the correctness or
validity of any claim of lien, Landlord may, in its reasonable discretion,
permit Tenant to post or provide security in a form and amount acceptable to
Landlord to insure that title to the Project remains free from the lien claimed.
If said lien is not timely discharged Landlord may, but shall not be required
to, take such action or pay such amount as may be necessary to remove such lien
and Tenant shall pay to Landlord as Additional Rent any such amounts expended by
Landlord, together with interest thereon at the Default Rate (as defined in
Section 5.3 hereof), within five (5) days after notice is received from Landlord
of the amount expended by Landlord.


                     ARTICLE X USE AND COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS

     10.1  GENERAL USE AND COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS. Tenant shall use the Premises
only for Tenant's business described in Section 1.1(f) above, and uses
customarily incidental thereto and for no other use without the prior written
consent of Landlord which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld,
<PAGE>
conditioned or delayed. Tenant shall, at Tenant's sole cost and expense, comply
with applicable requirements of municipal, county, state, federal and other
applicable governmental authorities now or hereafter in force pertaining to
Tenant's business operations, alterations and/or specific use of the Premises
and/or the Project, and shall secure any necessary permits therefore and shall
faithfully observe in the use of the Premises and the Project, applicable
municipal, county, state, federal and other applicable governmental entities'
requirements which are now or which may hereafter be in force. Tenant, in
Tenant's use and occupancy of the Premises, shall not subject or permit the
Premises and/or the Project to be used in any manner which would tend to damage
any portion thereof, or which would increase the cost of any insurance paid by
Landlord with respect thereto. Tenant shall not do or permit anything to be done
in or about the Premises, the Common Areas and/or the Project which will in any
way obstruct or interfere with the rights of other tenants or occupants of the
Common Areas and/or the Project or use or allow the Premises or any portion of
the Project to be used for any improper, immoral, unlawful or objectionable
purpose, nor shall Tenant cause, maintain or permit a nuisance in, on or about
the Premises, the Common Areas and/or the Project. Tenant shall comply with all
covenants and obligations in the CC&R's which affect the use and operation of
the Premises, the Common Areas and/or the Project.

     10.2  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.

           (a)  DEFINED TERMS.

                (i)  "HAZARDOUS MATERIALS" means, among other things, any of the
following, in any amount: (a) any petroleum or petroleum derived or derivative
product, asbestos in any form, urea formaldehyde and polychlorinated biphenyls
and medical wastes; (b) any radioactive substance; (c) any toxic, infectious,
reactive, corrosive, ignitable or flammable chemical or chemical compound; and
(d) any chemicals, materials or substances, whether solid, liquid or gas,
defined as or included in the definitions of "hazardous substances," "hazardous
wastes," "hazardous materials," "extremely hazardous wastes," "restricted
hazardous wastes," "toxic substances," "toxic pollutants," "solid waste," or
words of similar import in any federal, state or local statute, law, ordinance
or regulation or court decisions now existing or hereafter existing as the same
may be interpreted by government offices and agencies.

                (ii) "HAZARDOUS MATERIALS LAWS" means any federal, state or
local statutes, laws, ordinances or regulations or court decisions now existing
or hereafter existing that control, classify, regulate, list or define Hazardous
Materials or require remediation of Hazardous Materials contamination.

           (b)  COMPLIANCE WITH HAZARDOUS MATERIALS LAWS. Tenant will not cause
any Hazardous Material to be brought upon, kept, generated or used on the
Project in a manner or for a purpose prohibited by or that could result in
liability under any Hazardous Materials Law; provided, however, in no event
shall Tenant allow any Hazardous Material to be brought upon, kept, generated or
used on the Project other than those Hazardous Materials for which Tenant has
received Landlord's prior written consent (other than small quantities of
cleaning or other/industrial supplies as are customarily used by a tenant in the
ordinary course in a general office facility). Tenant, at its sole cost and
expense, will comply with (and obtain all permits required under) all Hazardous
Materials Laws, groundwater wellhead protection laws, storm water management
laws, fire protection provisions, and prudent industry practice relating to the
presence, storage, transportation, disposal, release or management of Hazardous
Materials in, on, under or about the Project that Tenant brings upon, keeps,
generates or uses on the Project (including, without limitation, but subject to
this Section 10.2, immediate remediation of any Hazardous Materials in, on,
under or about the Project that Tenant brings upon, keeps, generates or uses on
the Project in compliance with Hazardous Materials Laws) and in no event shall
Tenant allow any liens or encumbrances pertaining to Tenant's use of Hazardous
Materials to attach to any portion of the Project. On or before the expiration
or earlier termination of this Lease, Tenant, at its sole cost and expense, will
completely remove from the Project (regardless whether any Hazardous Materials
Law requires removal), in compliance with all Hazardous Materials Laws, all
Hazardous Materials Tenant causes to be present in, on, under or about the
Project. Tenant will not take any remedial action in response to the presence of
any Hazardous Materials in on, under or about the Project, nor enter into (or
commence negotiations with respect to) any settlement agreement, consent decree
or other compromise with respect to any claims relating to or in any way
connected with Hazardous Materials in, on, under or about the Project, without
first notifying Landlord of Tenant's intention to do so and affording Landlord
<PAGE>
reasonable opportunity to investigate, appear, intervene and otherwise assert
and protect Landlord's interest in the Project. Landlord shall have the right
from time to time to inspect the Premises to determine if Tenant is in
compliance with this Section 10.2.

           (c)  NOTICE OF ACTIONS. Tenant will notify Landlord of any of the
following actions affecting Landlord, Tenant or the Project that result from or
in any way relate to Tenant's use of the Project immediately after receiving
notice of the same: (a) any enforcement, clean-up, removal or other governmental
or regulatory action instituted, completed or threatened under any Hazardous
Materials Law; (b) any claim made or threatened by any person relating to
damage, contribution, liability, cost recovery, compensation, loss or injury
resulting from or claimed to result from any Hazardous Material; and (c) any
reports made by any person, including Tenant, to any environmental agency
relating to any Hazardous Material, including any complaints, notices, warnings
or asserted violations. Tenant will also deliver to Landlord, as promptly as
possible and in any event within five (5) business days after Tenant first
receives or sends the same, copies of all claims, reports, complaints, notices,
warnings or asserted violations relating in any way to the Project or Tenant's
use of the Project. Upon Landlord's written request, Tenant will promptly
deliver to Landlord documentation acceptable to Landlord reflecting the legal
and proper disposal of all Hazardous Materials removed or to be removed from the
Premises. All such documentation will list Tenant or its agent as a responsible
party and the generator of such Hazardous Materials and will not attribute
responsibility for any such Hazardous Materials to Landlord or Landlord's
property manager.

           (d)  DISCLOSURE AND WARNING OBLIGATIONS. Tenant acknowledges and
agrees that all reporting and warning obligations required under Hazardous
Materials Laws resulting from or in any way relating to Tenant's use of the
Premises or Project are Tenant's sole responsibility, regardless whether the
Hazardous Materials Laws permit or require Landlord to report or warn.

           (e)  INDEMNIFICATION. Tenant releases and will indemnify, defend
(with counsel reasonably acceptable to Landlord), protect and hold harmless the
Landlord and Landlord's agents, employees and contractors for, from and against
any and all claims, liabilities, damages, losses, costs and expenses whatsoever
arising or resulting, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, from the
presence, treatment, storage, transportation, disposal, release or management of
Hazardous Materials in, on, under, upon or from the Project (including water
tables and atmosphere) that Tenant brings upon, keeps, generates or uses on the
Premises or the Project. Tenant's obligations under this Section include,
without limitation and whether foreseeable or unforeseeable, (a) the costs of
any required or necessary repair, clean-up, detoxification or decontamination of
the Project; (b) the costs of implementing any closure, remediation or other
required action in connection therewith as stated above; (c) the value of any
loss of use and any diminution in value of the Project, and (d) consultants '
fees, experts' fees and response costs. The Tenant's obligations under this
section survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. Landlord
releases and will indemnify, defend (with counsel reasonably acceptable to
Tenant), protect and hold harmless the Tenant and Tenant's agents, employees and
contractors for, from and against any and all claims, liabilities, damages,
losses, costs and expenses whatsoever arising or resulting, in whole or in part,
directly or indirectly, from the presence, treatment, storage, transportation,
disposal, release or management of Hazardous Materials in, on, under, upon or
from the Project (including water tables and atmosphere) that Landlord brings
upon, keeps, generates or uses on the Premises or the Project. Landlord's
obligations under this Section include, without limitation and whether
foreseeable or unforeseeable, (a) the costs of any required or necessary repair,
clean-up, detoxification or decontamination of the Project; (b) the costs of
implementing any closure, remediation or other required action in connection
therewith as stated above; (c) the value of any loss of use and any diminution
in value of the Project, and (d) consultants ' fees, experts' fees and response
costs. The Landlord's obligations under this section survive the expiration or
earlier termination of this Lease.

           (f)  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REPRESENTATION BY LANDLORD. Landlord
represents to Tenant that, to its actual knowledge and except as Landlord has
previously disclosed to Tenant, Landlord has not caused the generation, storage
or release of Hazardous Materials upon the Premises, except in accordance with
Hazardous Materials Laws and prudent industry practices regarding construction
of the Premises.

     10.3  SIGNS. The Tenant shall not paint, display, inscribe, place or affix
any sign, picture, advertisement, notice, lettering, or direction on any part of
the outside of the Building or the Project or visible from the outside of the
<PAGE>
Premises, the Building or the Project, except as first approved by Landlord or
as may be set forth in the Tenant Improvement Plans. Landlord's approval of any
proposed sign, picture, advertisement, notice, lettering, or direction shall not
be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed.


                        ARTICLE XI DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION

     11.1  RECONSTRUCTION. If the "Relevant Space" (which means the Premises,
reasonable access to the Premises, or any part of either Building or the Project
that provides essential services to the Premises) is damaged or destroyed during
the Term, Landlord shall, except as hereinafter provided, diligently repair or
rebuild it to substantially the condition in which it existed immediately prior
to such damage or destruction. If Landlord is obligated or elects to repair or
restore as herein provided, Landlord shall be obligated to make repair or
restoration of only those portions of the Premises which were initially provided
at Landlord's expense or as part of the original installation by Landlord for
Tenant and the repair and/or restoration of other items within the Premises
shall be the obligation of the Tenant.

     11.2  RENT ABATEMENT. Rent due and payable hereunder shall be abated
proportionately during any period in which, by reason of any such damage or
destruction, there is substantial interference with the operation of Tenant's
business in the Premises. Such abatement shall continue for the period
commencing with such damage or destruction and ending with a substantial
completion by Landlord of the work of repair or reconstruction which Landlord is
obligated or undertakes to do. If it be determined that continuation of business
is not practical pending reconstruction, and if Landlord does not elect to or is
unable to provide alternative temporary space for continuation of such business,
then Rent due and payable hereunder shall abate, until reconstruction is
substantially completed or until business is totally or partially resumed,
whichever is the earlier. Tenant shall not be entitled to any claim,
compensation or damages for loss in the use in the whole or any part of the
Premises (including loss of business) and/or any inconvenience or annoyance
occasioned by such damage, repair, reconstruction or restoration.

     11.3  EXCESSIVE DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION. If the Relevant Space is damaged or
destroyed to the extent that it cannot within Landlord's reasonable discretion,
with reasonable diligence, be fully repaired or restored by Landlord (using
standard working methods and procedures) within the earlier of (i) one hundred
twenty (120) days after the date of the damage or destruction, or (ii) the
expiration of the Term hereof, Landlord may terminate this Lease by written
notice to Tenant within thirty (30) days of the date of the damage or
destruction. If Landlord does not terminate the Lease, this Lease shall remain
in full force and effect and Landlord shall diligently repair and restore the
damage as soon as reasonably possible.

     11.4  UNINSURED CASUALTY. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary, in the event of damage to or destruction of all or any portion of the
Building, which damage or destruction is not fully covered by the insurance
proceeds received by Landlord under the insurance policies required under
Section 7.1 hereinabove, Landlord may terminate this Lease by written notice to
Tenant given within sixty (60) days after the date of notice to Landlord that
said damage or destruction is not so covered. If Landlord does not elect to
terminate this Lease, the Lease shall remain in full force and effect and the
Building shall be repaired and rebuilt in accordance with the provisions for
repair set forth in Section 11.1 hereinabove.

     11.5  WAIVER. With respect to any damage or destruction which Landlord is
obligated to repair or may elect to repair under the terms of this Article XI,
and to the extent permitted by law, Tenant hereby waives any rights to terminate
this Lease pursuant to rights otherwise accorded by law to tenants, except as
expressly otherwise provided herein.

     11.6  MORTGAGEE'S RIGHT. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
if the holder of any indebtedness secured by a mortgage or deed of trust
covering the Building and/or the Project requires that the insurance proceeds be
applied to such indebtedness, then Landlord shall have the right to terminate
this Lease by delivering written notice of termination to Tenant within fifteen
(15) days after such requirement is made. Upon any termination of this Lease
under the provisions hereof, the parties shall be released without further
obligation to the other from date possession of the Premises is surrendered to
Landlord, except for items which are theretofore accrued and are then unpaid.
<PAGE>
     11.7  DAMAGE NEAR END OF TERM. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this Article XI, in the event the Premises or the Building are
subject to excessive damage (as defined in Section 11.3) during the last
twenty-four (24) months of the Term or any applicable extension periods,
Landlord may elect to terminate this Lease by written notice to Tenant within
thirty (30) days after the date of such damage.


                           ARTICLE XII EMINENT DOMAIN

     In the event the whole of the Premises, Building, Project and/or Common
Areas, as the case may be, and/or such part thereof as shall materially
interfere with Tenant's use and occupation thereof, shall be taken for any
public or quasi-public purpose by any lawful power or authority by exercise of
the right of appropriation, condemnation or eminent domain, or is sold in lieu
of or to prevent such taking, then Tenant shall have the right to terminate this
Lease effective as of the date possession is required to be surrendered to said
authority. In the event the whole of the Premises, Building, Project, and/or
Common Areas, as the case may be, or such part thereof as shall substantially
interfere with Landlord's use and occupation thereof, or if any access points to
adjoining streets, shall be taken for any public or quasi-public purpose by any
lawful power or authority by exercise of the right of appropriation,
condemnation or eminent domain, or is sold in lieu of or to prevent such taking,
then Landlord shall have the right to terminate this Lease effective as of the
date possession is required to be surrendered to said authority. Except as
provided below, Tenant shall not assert any claim against Landlord or the taking
authority for any compensation because of such taking, and Landlord shall be
entitled to receive the entire amount of any award without deduction for any
estate or interest of Tenant in the Premises. Nothing contained in this Article
XII shall be deemed to give Landlord any interest in any separate award made to
Tenant for the taking of personal property and fixtures belonging to Tenant or
for Tenant's moving expenses. In the event the amount of property or the type of
estate taken shall not materially interfere with the conduct of Tenant's
business, Landlord shall be entitled to the entire amount of the award without
deduction for any estate or interest of Tenant, Landlord shall promptly proceed
to restore the Building to substantially their same condition prior to such
partial taking less the portion thereof lost in such condemnation, and the Base
Rent shall be proportionately reduced by the time during which, and the portion
of the Premises which, Tenant shall have been deprived of possession on account
of said taking and restoration.


                              ARTICLE XIII DEFAULT

     13.1  EVENTS OF DEFAULT. The occurrence of any of the following events
shall constitute an "Event of Default" on the part of the Tenant:

           (a)  Tenant shall fail to pay on or before the due date any
installment of Rent or other payment required pursuant to this Lease within five
(5) days after Tenant's receipt of written notice from Landlord of Tenant's
failure to make such payment;

           (b) Tenant shall fail to comply with any term, provision, or covenant
of this Lease, other than the payment of Rent or other sums of money due
hereunder, and such failure is not cured within fifteen (15) days after written
notice thereof to Tenant (said notice being in lieu of, and not in addition to,
any notice required as a prerequisite to a forcible entry and detainer or
similar action for possession of the Premises); provided that if the nature of
such cure is such that a longer cure period is necessary, Tenant shall only be
in default if Tenant shall have failed to commence such cure within said fifteen
(15) day period and thereafter to have diligently prosecuted such cure to
completion;

           (c)  Tenant shall file a petition or be adjudged a debtor or bankrupt
or insolvent under the United States Bankruptcy Code, as amended, or any similar
law or statute of the United States or any State; or a receiver or trustee shall
be appointed for all or substantially all of the assets of Tenant and such
appointment or petition, if involuntary, is not dismissed within sixty (60) days
of filing; or

           (d)  Tenant shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors.
<PAGE>
     13.2  REMEDIES.

           (a)  Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default set forth in this
Lease, in addition to any other remedies available to Landlord at law or in
equity, Landlord shall have the immediate option to terminate this Lease and all
rights of Tenant hereunder. In the event that Landlord shall elect to so
terminate this Lease, then Landlord may recover from Tenant: (i) any unpaid rent
which has been earned at the time of such termination plus interest at the rates
contemplated by this Lease; plus (ii) the amount by which the unpaid rent which
would have been earned after termination until the time of award exceeds the
amount of such rental loss that Tenant proves could have been reasonably avoided
plus interest at the rates contemplated by this Lease; plus (iii) the worth at
the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid rent for the balance of the
Term after the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that Tenant
proves could be reasonably avoided; plus (iv) the unamortized balance of the
value of any free Rent, tenant improvement costs, commissions and any other
monetary concessions provided to Tenant pursuant to this Lease, as amortized
over the initial Term of this Lease; plus (v) any other amount necessary to
compensate Landlord for all the damage proximately caused by Tenant's failure to
perform Tenant's obligation under this Lease or which in the ordinary course of
things would be likely to result therefrom, including, but not limited to, costs
to restore the Premises to good condition, costs to remodel, renovate or
otherwise prepare the Premises, or portions thereof, for a new tenant, leasing
commissions, marketing expenses, attorneys' fees, and free rent, moving
allowances and other types of leasing concessions. As used in Subsections
13.2(a) (iii) above, the "worth at the time of award" is computed by discounting
such amount at the discount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco at
the time of award plus one percent (1%). Landlord agrees to use its commercially
reasonable efforts to mitigate its damages.

           (b)  In the event of any such default by Tenant, Landlord shall also
have the right with or without terminating this Lease, to re-enter the Premises
and remove all persons and property from the Premises; such property may be
removed and stored in a public warehouse or elsewhere at the cost of and for the
account of the Tenant. No re-entry or taking possession of the Premises by
Landlord pursuant to this Section 13.2(b) shall be construed as an acceptance of
a surrender of the Premises or an election to terminate this Lease unless a
written notice of such intention is given to Tenant or unless the termination
thereof is decreed by a court of competent jurisdiction.

           (c)  In the event that Landlord shall elect to re-enter as provided
above or shall take possession of the Premises pursuant to legal proceedings or
pursuant to any notice provided by law, then if Landlord does not elect to
terminate this Lease as provided above, Landlord may from time to time, without
terminating this Lease, either recover all Rent as it becomes due or relet the
Premises or any part thereof for the Term of this Lease on terms and conditions
as Landlord at its sole discretion may deem advisable with the right to make
alterations and repairs to the Premises.

           (d)  In the event that Landlord shall elect to so relet, the rents
received by Landlord from such reletting shall be applied: first to the payment
of any indebtedness other than Rent due hereunder from Tenant to Landlord;
second to the payment of any costs of such reletting; third, to the payment of
the cost of any alterations and repairs to the Premises; fourth, to the payment
of Rent due and unpaid hereunder; and the residual, if any, shall be held by
Landlord and applied to payment of future Rent as the same shall become due and
payable hereunder. Should that portion of such rents received from such
reletting during the month which is applied to the payment of Rent be less than
the Rent payable during that month by Tenant hereunder, then Tenant shall pay
any such deficiency to Landlord immediately upon demand therefor by Landlord.
Such deficiency shall be calculated and paid monthly. Tenant shall also pay to
Landlord, as soon as is certain, any of the costs and expenses incurred by
Landlord in such reletting or in making such alterations and repairs not covered
by the rents received from such reletting.

           (e)  All rights, options and remedies of Landlord contained in this
Lease shall be construed and held to be cumulative, and no one of them shall be
exclusive of the other, and Landlord shall have the right to pursue any one or
all of such remedies or any other remedy or relief which may be provided by law,
whether or not stated in this Lease. No waiver of any default of Tenant
hereunder shall be implied from any acceptance by Landlord of any Rent or other
payments due hereunder or any omission by Landlord to take any action on account
<PAGE>
of such default if such default persists or is repeated, and no express waiver
shall affect defaults other than as specified in said waiver. The consent or
approval of Landlord to or of any act by Tenant requiring Landlord's consent or
approval shall not be deemed to waive or render unnecessary Landlord's consent
or approval to or of any subsequent similar acts by Tenant.

           (f)  In the event that during the term of this Lease, Tenant commits
more than two (2) acts or omissions of default for which default notices are
given by Landlord pursuant to this Article XIII (whether or not such defaults
are cured by Tenant), and if the defaults are material in Landlord's reasonable
judgment, Landlord may, at its option, elect to terminate this Lease. Landlord's
election to exercise its early termination rights shall be effective only upon
written notice delivered to Tenant specifying Landlord's election to cause an
early termination of this Lease. Such early termination shall be in effect when
such written notice is provided to Tenant. Landlord's right of early termination
shall be in addition to all other rights and remedies available to Landlord at
law or in equity.

     13.3  LANDLORD'S DEFAULT. Landlord shall not be in default unless Landlord
fails to perform its obligations under this Lease within thirty (30) days after
written notice by Tenant, or if such failure is not reasonably capable of being
cured within such thirty (30) day period, Landlord shall not be in default
unless Landlord has failed to commence the cure and diligently pursue the cure
to completion. In no event shall Tenant have the remedy to terminate this Lease
except upon final adjudication of competent jurisdiction authorizing such
default. In no event shall Landlord be liable to Tenant or any person claiming
through or under Tenant for consequential, exemplary or punitive damages.


                         ARTICLE XIV FILING OF PETITION

     Landlord and Tenant (as either debtor or debtor-in-possession) agree that
if a petition ("Petition") is filed by or against Tenant under any chapter of
Title 11 of the United States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code"), the following
provisions shall apply:

           (a)  Adequate protection for Tenant's obligations accruing after
filing of the Petition and before this Lease is rejected or assumed shall be
provided within 15 days after filing in the form of a security deposit equal to
three months ' Base Rent and Additional Rent and other Lease charges, to be held
by the court or an escrow agent approved by Landlord and the court.

           (b)  The sum of all amounts payable by Tenant to Landlord under this
Lease constitutes reasonable compensation for the occupancy of the Premises by
Tenant.

           (c)  Tenant or Trustee shall give Landlord at least 30 days written
notice of any abandonment of the Premises or any proceeding relating to
administrative claims. If Tenant abandons without notice, Tenant or Trustee
shall stipulate to entry of an order for relief from stay to permit Landlord to
reenter and relet the Premises.

(d) If Tenant failed to timely and fully perform any of its obligations under
this Lease before the filing of the Petition, whether or not Landlord has given
Tenant written notice of that failure and whether or not any time period for
cure expired before the filing of the Petition, Tenant shall be deemed to have
been in default on the date the Petition was filed for all purposes under the
Bankruptcy Code.

           (e)  For the purposes of Section 365(b)(1) of the Bankruptcy Code,
prompt cure of defaults shall mean cure within 30 days after assumption.

           (f)  For the purposes of Section 365(b)(1) and 365(f)(2) of the
Bankruptcy Code, adequate assurance of future performance of this Lease by
Tenant, Trustee or any proposed assignee will require that Tenant, Trustee or
the proposed assignee deposit three months of Base Rent and Additional Rent into
an escrow fund (to be held by the court or an escrow agent approved by Landlord
and the court) as security for such future performance. In addition, if this
Lease is to be assigned, adequate assurance of future performance by the
proposed assignee shall require that: (i) the assignee have a tangible net worth
not less than the net worth of Tenant as of the Commencement Date or that such
<PAGE>
assignee's performance be unconditionally guaranteed by a person or entity that
has a tangible net worth not less than the net worth of Tenant as of the
Commencement Date; (ii) the assignee demonstrate that it possesses a history of
success in operating a business of similar size and complexity in a similar
market as Tenant's business; and (iii) assignee assume in writing all of
Tenant's obligations relating to the Premises or this Lease.

           (g)  If Tenant or Trustee intends to assume and/or assign this Lease,
Tenant or Trustee shall provide Landlord with 30 days written notice of the
proposed action, separate from and in addition to any notice provided to all
creditors. Notice of a proposed assumption shall state the assurance of prompt
cure, compensation for loss and assurance of future performance to be provided
to Landlord. Notice of a proposed assignment shall state: (i) the name, address,
and federal tax identification and registration numbers of the proposed
assignee; (ii) all of the terms and conditions of the proposed assignment, and
(iii) the assignee's proposed adequate assurance of future performance to be
provided to Landlord. (h) If Tenant is in default under this Lease when the
Petition is filed, Landlord shall not be required to provide Tenant or Trustee
with services or supplies under this Lease or otherwise before Tenant assumes
this Lease, unless Tenant compensates Landlord for such services and supplies in
advance.


                      ARTICLE XV ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING

     15.1  PROHIBITION. Tenant shall not assign, mortgage, pledge or otherwise
transfer or encumber this Lease, in whole or in part, nor sublet, assign, or
permit occupancy by any party other than Tenant of all or any part of the
Premises, without the prior written consent of Landlord in each instance which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. Tenant
shall at the time the Tenant requests the consent of Landlord, deliver to
Landlord such information in writing as Landlord may reasonably require
respecting the proposed assignee or subtenant including, without limitation, the
name, address, nature of business, ownership, financial responsibility and
standing of such proposed assignee or subtenant and Landlord shall have not less
than twenty (20) business days after receipt of all required information to
elect one of the following: (a) consent to such proposed assignment, encumbrance
or sublease, or (b) refuse such consent, or (c) elect to terminate this Lease,
in the case of a proposed assignment, or elect to terminate the Lease with
respect to the portion of the Premises proposed to be subleased, as applicable.
Without making a formal request for consent to an assignment or sublease, Tenant
may request that Landlord give Tenant its decision whether it intends to enforce
the recapture provision in clause (c). Landlord agrees to respond to such
request within 20 days after Tenant's request for the decision. In addition, as
a condition to Landlord's consent to any assignment, sublease or encumbrance of
this Lease shall be the delivery to Landlord of a true copy of the fully
executed instrument of assignment, transfer or encumbrance and an agreement
executed by the assignee, sublessee or other transferee in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to Landlord and expressly enforceable by Landlord,
whereby the assignee assumes and agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions
of this Lease and perform all the obligations of Tenant hereunder with respect
to the assigned or subleased portion of the Premises. No assignment or
subletting by Tenant shall relieve Tenant of any obligation under this Lease,
including Tenant's obligation to pay Base Rent and Additional Rent hereunder.
Any purported assignment or subletting contrary to the provisions hereof without
consent shall be void. The consent by Landlord to any assignment or subletting
shall not constitute a waiver of the necessity for such consent to any
subsequent assignment of subletting. Tenant 's sole remedy for Landlord's
refusal to consent to a proposed assignee or sublessee of Tenant will be an
action or proceeding for specific performance, injunction or declaratory relief.
Tenant shall pay Landlord's reasonable processing costs and attorneys' fees
incurred in reviewing any proposed Assignment or sublease.

     15.2  EXCESS RENTAL. If Tenant assigns this Lease or subleases the
Premises, Tenant shall pay to Landlord as Additional Rent under this Lease fifty
percent (50%) of the Profit on such transaction as herein provided. For purposes
of this Section 15.2, the term "Profit" means the consideration received by
Tenant from an assignee or subtenant in excess of the amount Tenant must pay
Landlord under this Lease, which amount is to be prorated where a part of the
Premises is subleased or assigned. In determining the Profit, the consideration
received by Tenant shall be deemed to be reduced by the leasing commissions paid
by Tenant, payments attributable to the costs of improvements made to the
Premises at Tenant's cost for the assignee or sublessee, and other reasonable,
out-of-pocket costs paid by Tenant, such as attorney fees related to Tenant's
obtaining an assignee or sublessee, costs of advertising or marketing the space,
<PAGE>
moving expenses paid by Tenant for the assignee or subtenant, and other economic
concessions given by Tenant to the assignee or sublessee. Tenant shall pay fifty
percent (50%) of the Profit to Landlord within thirty (30) days after the end of
each calendar year during which Tenant collects any Profit.

     15.3  SCOPE. The prohibition against assigning or subletting contained in
this Article XV shall be construed to include a prohibition against any
assignment or subletting by operation of law. If this Lease be assigned, or if
the underlying beneficial interest of Tenant is transferred, or if the Premises
or any part thereof be sublet or occupied by anybody other than Tenant, Landlord
may collect rent from the assignee, subtenant or occupant and apply the net
amount collected to the Rent herein reserved and apportion any excess rent so
collected in accordance with the terms of the immediately preceding paragraph,
but no such assignment, subletting, occupancy or collection shall be deemed a
waiver of this covenant, or the acceptance of the assignee, subtenant or
occupant as tenant, or a release of Tenant from the further performance by
Tenant of covenants on the part of Tenant herein contained. No assignment or
subletting shall affect the continuing primary liability of Tenant (which,
following assignment, shall be joint and several with the assignee), and Tenant
shall not be released from performing any of the terms, covenants and conditions
of this Lease.

     15.4  WAIVER. Notwithstanding any assignment or sublease, or any
indulgences, waivers or extensions of time granted by Landlord to any assignee
or sublessee or failure of Landlord to take action against any assignee or
sublease, Tenant hereby agrees that Landlord may, at its option, and upon not
less than ten (10) days' notice to Tenant, proceed against Tenant without having
taken action against or joined such assignee or sublessee, except that Tenant
shall have the benefit of any indulgences, waivers and extensions of time
granted to any such assignee or sublessee.

     15.5  CHANGE IN CONTROL. So long as Tenant is not in default of the Lease,
Tenant shall have the right to assign this Lease to any corporation or other
entity which is controlled by, under the control of, or under common control
with Tenant, or any corporation into which Tenant may be merged or consolidated,
or which purchases all or substantially all of the assets or stock of Tenant
(each an "Affiliate of Tenant"); provided, however, (a) Tenant shall not be
released from its obligations under this Lease, (b) Landlord shall be given at
least 15 days prior written notice of the assignment, (c) Landlord shall be
given a copy of the document effecting the assignment at least 15 days prior to
the date on which the assignment shall occur, and (d) from and after the date of
the assignment, Tenant shall be jointly and severally liable with the Affiliate
of Tenant with respect to all obligations of Tenant under this Lease.


         ARTICLE XVI ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE, ATTORNMENT AND SUBORDINATION

     16.1  ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATES. Within ten (10) business days after request
therefor by Landlord, or if on any sale, assignment or hypothecation by Landlord
of Landlord's interest in the Project and/or the Premises, or any part thereof,
an estoppel certificate shall be required from Tenant, Tenant shall deliver a
certificate in the form attached hereto as Exhibit G, or in such other form as
requested by Landlord, to any proposed mortgagee or purchaser, and to Landlord,
certifying (if such be the case) that this Lease is in full force and effect,
the date of Tenant's most recent payment of Rent, and that Tenant has no
defenses or offsets outstanding, or stating those claimed by Tenant, and any
other information contained in such Exhibit G or reasonably requested by
Landlord or such proposed mortgagee or purchaser. Tenant's failure to deliver
said statement within said period shall, at Landlord's option be an Event of
Default hereunder and shall in any event be conclusive upon Tenant that: (i)
this Lease is in full force and effect, without modification except as may be
represented by Landlord; (ii) there are no uncured defaults in Landlord's
performance and Tenant has no right to offset, counterclaim or deduction against
Rent hereunder; and (iii) no more than one period's Base Rent has been paid in
advance. Landlord agrees that it shall, at any time upon not less than ten days'
prior written request from Tenant, execute, acknowledge, and deliver a statement
in writing (i) certifying that this Lease is unmodified and in full force and
effect (or, if modified, stating the nature of such modification and certifying
that this Lease, as so modified, is in full force and effect); (ii) certifying
the date to which Rent and other charges are paid in advance, if any, and the
amount of any security deposit which has been paid; (iii) acknowledging that
there are not, to Landlord's knowledge, any uncured defaults on the part of
Tenant, or specifying such defaults, if any are claimed; and (iv) certifying to
Tenant correct and reasonably ascertainable facts that are covered by the terms
of this Lease. Any such statement may be conclusively relied upon by any
prospective purchaser of the Premises, any assignee of this Lease, or any lender
or prospective lender.
<PAGE>
     16.2  ATTORNMENT. Tenant shall, in the event any proceedings are brought
for the foreclosure of, or in the event of exercise of the power of sale under,
any mortgage or deed of trust made by Landlord, its successors or assigns,
encumbering the Building, or any part thereof or in the event of termination of
a ground lease, if any, and if so requested, attorn to the purchaser upon such
foreclosure or sale or upon any grant of a deed in lieu of foreclosure and
recognize such purchaser as Landlord under this Lease; provided, that such
purchaser recognizes Tenant's rights under this Lease and agrees not to disturb
Tenant's quiet possession of the Premises for so long as Tenant is not in
default hereunder.

     16.3  SUBORDINATION. The rights of Tenant hereunder are and shall be, at
the election of any mortgagee or the beneficiary of a deed of trust encumbering
the Project (or the portion thereof on which the Building is located) and/or
Building, subject and subordinate to the lien of such mortgage or deed of trust,
or the lien resulting from any other method of financing or refinancing, now or
hereafter in force against the Project (or the portion thereof on which the
Building is located) and/or the Building, and to all advances made or hereafter
to be made upon the security thereof. If requested, Tenant agrees to execute
such documentation as may be reasonably required by Landlord or its lender to
further effect the provisions of this Article so long as the holder of the
mortgage, deed of trust or other lien at issue agrees not to disturb Tenant's
rights under this Lease so long as Tenant is not in default of this Lease.

     16.4  RECORDING. Tenant covenants and agrees with Landlord that Tenant
shall not record this Lease. At Tenant's request, Landlord agrees to execute and
acknowledge a memorandum of this Lease and deliver such memorandum to Tenant so
that Tenant may record the same. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 16.3,
in the event that Landlord or its lender requires this Lease or a memorandum
thereof to be recorded in priority to any mortgage, deed of trust or other
encumbrance which may now or at any time hereafter affect in whole or in part
the Building, the Project (or the portion thereof on which the Building is
located), and whether or not any such mortgage, deed of trust or other
encumbrance shall affect only the Building, the Project (or the portion thereof
on which the Building is located), or shall be a blanket mortgage, deed of trust
or encumbrance affecting other premises as well, the Tenant covenants and agrees
with Landlord that the Tenant shall execute promptly upon request from Landlord
any reasonable certificate, reasonable priority agreement or other reasonable
instrument which may from time to time be requested to give effect thereto.

     16.5  SUBORDINATION OF LANDLORD'S LIEN. Landlord agrees to subordinate its
landlord's lien on Tenant's personal property to the lien of Tenant's lender if
the terms of such subordination are reasonably acceptable to Landlord.


                           ARTICLE XVII MISCELLANEOUS

     17.1  NOTICES. All notices required to be given hereunder shall be in
writing and mailed postage prepaid by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal delivery or nationally recognized courier
service, to the appropriate address indicated in Section 1.1(b) or Section
1.1(e), as appropriate, at such street address or street addresses (but not more
than three such addresses) as either Landlord or Tenant may, from time to time,
respectively, designate in a written notice given to the other. Notices shall be
deemed sufficiently served upon the earlier of actual receipt or the expiration
of three (3) days after the date of mailing thereof. Tenant agrees to accept
service of process for all matters related to this Lease at the Premises.

     17.2  SUCCESSORS BOUND. This Lease and each of its covenants and conditions
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and
their respective assignees, subject to the provisions hereof. Whenever in this
Lease a reference is made to Landlord, such reference shall be deemed to refer
to the person in whom the interest of Landlord shall be vested, and Landlord
shall have no obligation hereunder as to any claim arising after the transfer of
its interest in the Building. Any successor or assignee of the Tenant who
accepts an assignment of the benefit of this Lease and enters into possession or
enjoyment hereunder shall thereby assume and agree to perform and be bound by
the covenants and conditions thereof. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed
in any manner to give a right of assignment without the prior written consent of
Landlord pursuant to, or otherwise as provided in, Article XV hereof.

     17.3  WAIVER. No waiver of any default or breach of any covenant by either
party hereunder shall be implied from any omission by either party to take
action on account of such default if such default persists or is repeated, and
<PAGE>
no express waiver shall affect any default other than the default specified in
the waiver and said waiver shall be operative only for the time and to the
extent therein stated. Waivers of any covenant, term or condition contained
herein by either party shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent
breach of the same covenant, term or condition. The consent or approval by
either party to or of any act by either party requiring further consent or
approval shall not be deemed to waive or render unnecessary their consent or
approval to or of any subsequent similar acts.

     17.4  SUBDIVISION AND EASEMENTS. Landlord reserves the right to: (a)
subdivide the Project; (b) alter the boundaries of the Project; and (c) grant
easements on the Project and dedicate for public use portions thereof; provided,
however, that no such subdivision, alteration of boundaries, grant or dedication
shall materially interfere with Tenant's use of the Premises. Tenant hereby
consents to such subdivision, boundary revision, and/or grant or dedication of
easements and agrees from time to time, at Landlord's request, to execute,
acknowledge and deliver to Landlord, in accordance with Landlord's instructions,
any and all documents, instruments, maps or plats necessary to effectuate
Tenant's consent thereto.

     17.5  LANDLORD'S RESERVED RIGHTS IN COMMON AREAS. Landlord reserves the
right from time to time, provided that Tenant's use and enjoyment of, and access
to and from, the Premises is not materially and adversely affected thereby, to:
(a) install, use, maintain, repair and replace pipes, ducts, conduits, wires and
appurtenant meters and equipment for service to other parts of the Building
above the ceiling surfaces, below the floor surfaces, within the walls and in
the central core areas, and to relocate any pipes, ducts, conduit, wires and
appurtenant meters in the Building which are so located or located elsewhere
outside the Building; (b) make changes to the Common Areas and/or the parking
facilities located thereon, including, without limitation, changes in the
location, size, shape and number of driveways, entrances, parking spaces,
parking areas, loading and unloading areas, ingress, egress, direction of
traffic, landscaped areas and walkways; (c) close temporarily all or any portion
of the Common Areas and/or the Building in order to perform any of the foregoing
or any of Landlord's obligations under this Lease, so long as reasonable access
to the Building remains available during normal business hours; and (d) alter,
relocate or expand, and/or to add additional structures and improvements to, or
remove same from, all or any portion of the Common Areas or other portions of
the Project.

     17.6  ACCORD AND SATISFACTION. No payment by Tenant or receipt by Landlord
of a lesser amount than the Rent herein stipulated shall be deemed to be other
than on account of the Rent, nor shall any endorsement or statement on any check
or any letter accompanying any check or payment as Rent be deemed an accord and
satisfaction, and Landlord may accept such check or payment without prejudice to
Landlord's right to recover the balance of such Rent or pursue any other remedy
provided in this Lease.

     17.7  LIMITATION OF LANDLORD'S LIABILITY. The obligations of Landlord under
this Lease do not constitute personal obligations of the individual partners,
directors, officers, members, employees or shareholders of Landlord or its
partners, and Tenant shall look solely to the Project, and the rents and profits
therefrom, for satisfaction of any liability in respect of this Lease and will
not seek recourse against the individual partners, directors, officers, members,
employees or shareholders of Landlord or its partners or any of their personal
assets for such satisfaction.

     17.8  SURVIVAL. The obligations and liabilities of each party which are
incurred or accrue prior to the expiration of this Lease or the termination of
this Lease or of Tenant's right of possession shall survive such expiration or
termination, as shall all provisions by which a party is to provide defense and
indemnity to the other party, all provisions waiving or limiting the liability
of Landlord, and all attorneys' fees provisions.

     17.9  ATTORNEYS' FEES. In the event either party requires the services of
an attorney in connection with enforcing the terms of this Lease or in the event
suit is brought for the recovery of any Rent due under this Lease or the breach
of any covenant or condition of this Lease, or for the restitution of the
Premises to Landlord and/or eviction of Tenant during the Term of this Lease, or
after the expiration thereof, the substantially prevailing party will be
entitled to a reasonable sum for attorneys' fees, witness fees and other court
costs, both at trial and on appeal.

     17.10 CAPTIONS AND ARTICLE NUMBERS. The captions, article, paragraph and
section numbers and table of contents appearing in this Lease are inserted only
as a matter of convenience and in no way define, limit, construe or describe the
scope or intent of such sections or articles of this Lease nor in any way affect
this Lease.
<PAGE>
     17.11 SEVERABILITY. If any term, covenant, condition or provision of this
Lease, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall to any
extent be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or
unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, covenants, conditions or provisions
of this Lease, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall
remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or
invalidated.

     17.12 APPLICABLE LAW. This Lease, and the rights and obligations of the
parties hereto, shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of
the state in which the Building is located.

     17.13 SUBMISSION OF LEASE. The submission of this document for examination
and negotiation does not constitute an offer to lease, or a reservation of or
option for leasing the Premises. This document shall become effective and
binding only upon execution and delivery hereof by Landlord and Tenant. No act
or omission of any officer, employee or agent of Landlord or Tenant shall alter,
change or modify any of the provisions hereof.

     17.14 HOLDING OVER. Should Tenant, or any of its successors in interest,
hold over the Premises or any part thereof after the expiration or earlier
termination of this Lease without Landlord's prior written consent, such holding
over shall constitute and be construed as tenancy at sufferance only, at a
monthly rent equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the Base Rent owed
during the final month of the Term of this Lease and otherwise upon the terms
and conditions in the Lease, so far as applicable. Should Tenant, or any of its
successors in interest, hold over the Premises or any part thereof after the
expiration or earlier termination of this Lease with Landlord's prior written
consent, such holding over shall constitute and be construed as a tenancy from
month to month only, at a fair market monthly rent as agreed by Landlord and
Tenant and otherwise upon the terms and conditions of this Lease, so far as
applicable. The acceptance by Landlord of Rent after such expiration or early
termination shall not result in a renewal or extension of this Lease. The
foregoing provisions of this Section 17.14 are in addition to and do not affect
Landlord's right of re-entry or any other rights of Landlord hereunder or as
otherwise provided by law. If Tenant fails to surrender the Premises on the
expiration of this Lease and/or to remove all Tenant's fixtures and/or personal
property pursuant to Section 9.1 hereof, Tenant shall indemnify and hold
Landlord harmless for, from and against all claims, damages, loss or liability,
including without limitation, any claim made by any succeeding tenant resulting
from such failure to surrender by Tenant and any attorneys' fees and costs
incurred by Landlord with respect to any such claim.

     17.15 RULES AND REGULATIONS. At all times during the Term, Tenant shall
comply with Rules and Regulations for the Building and the Project, as set forth
in Exhibit H attached hereto, together with such amendments thereto as Landlord
may from time to time reasonably adopt and enforce in a non-discriminatory
fashion; provided that:

           (a)  Tenant is given fifteen (15) days' advance notice of such
modifications or new rules and regulations; and

           (b)  Such modifications or new rules and regulations are (i) for the
safety, care, order and cleanliness of the Project, (ii) do not unreasonably and
materially interfere with Tenant's conduct of its business or Tenant's use and
enjoyment of or its access to the Premises, or (iii) are of the type customarily
imposed for similar buildings.

If a Rule or Regulation conflicts with or is inconsistent with any Lease
provision, the Lease provision controls. Landlord agrees not to enforce the
Rules and Regulations in a discriminatory fashion.

     17.16 PARKING. Unless Tenant is in default hereunder and subject to any
reduction due to governmental requirements, Tenant shall be entitled to the
number of reserved vehicle parking spaces designated in Section 1.1(q) hereof
for the exclusive use of Tenant, its employees, visitors and customers. All
unreserved parking spaces shall be available for the common use of the tenants,
subtenants and invitees of the Project on a non-exclusive basis, subject to any
reasonable restrictions from time to time imposed by Landlord. Tenant shall not
use or permit its officers, employees or invitees to use more than the number of
spaces designated in Section 1.1(q) or any spaces which have been specifically
reserved by Landlord to other tenants or for such other uses as have been
designated by appropriate governmental entities as being restricted to certain
uses. Tenant shall at all times comply and cause its officers, employees and
<PAGE>
invitees to comply with any parking Rules and Regulations as Landlord may from
time to time reasonably adopt.

     17.17 NO NUISANCE. Tenant shall conduct its business and control its
agents, employees, invitees and visitors in such a manner as not to create any
nuisance, or interfere with, annoy or disrupt any other tenant or Landlord in
its operation of the Building or Project.

     17.18 BROKER; AGENCY DISCLOSURE. Landlord has not engaged any real estate
broker or agent in connection with this Lease. Tenant has entered into an
agreement with Colliers International ("Colliers") pursuant to which Colliers
has advised Tenant. Tenant is responsible for the payment of all fees and
commissions to Colliers in connection with this Lease. Landlord has no
responsibility for any such fees or commissions. Tenant shall indemnify and hold
harmless Landlord from and against any and all claims, demands, losses,
liabilities, lawsuits, judgments, costs and expenses (including without
limitation, attorneys' fees and costs) with respect to any leasing commission or
equivalent compensation alleged to be owing on account of Tenant's discussions,
negotiations and/or dealings with Colliers, whose fee shall be paid by Tenant.

     17.19 LANDLORD'S RIGHT TO PERFORM. Upon Tenant's failure to perform any
obligation of Tenant hereunder after notice from Landlord pursuant to Section
13.1 above, including without limitation, payment of Tenant's insurance premiums
and charges of contractors who have supplied materials or labor to the Premises.
Landlord shall have the right to perform such obligation of Tenant on behalf of
Tenant and/or to make payment on behalf of Tenant to such parties. Tenant shall
reimburse Landlord the reasonable cost of Landlord's performing such obligation
on Tenant's behalf, including reimbursement of any amounts that may be expended
by Landlord, plus interest at the Default Rate, as Additional Rent.

     17.20 ASSIGNMENT BY LANDLORD. In the event of a sale, conveyance, or other
transfer by Landlord of the Building, the Project, or portion thereof on which
the Building is located, or in the event of an assignment of this Lease by
Landlord, the same shall operate to release Landlord from any further liability
upon any of the covenants or conditions, express or implied, herein contained on
the part of Landlord, and from any and all further liability, obligations, costs
and expenses, demands, causes of action, claims or judgments arising out of this
Lease from and after the effective date of said release. In such event, Tenant
agrees to look solely to the successor in interest of Landlord with respect to
liabilities accruing after the date of such sale, conveyance, transfer, or
assignment. If any Security Deposit is given by Tenant to secure performance of
Tenant's covenants hereunder, Landlord shall transfer such Security Deposit to
any purchaser and thereupon Landlord shall be discharged from any further
liability in reference thereto. Notwithstanding anything in this Lease to the
contrary, however, (i) in no event shall Landlord's lender, who may have
succeeded to the interest of Landlord by foreclosure, deed in lieu of
foreclosure, or any other means, have any liability for any obligation of
Landlord to protect, defend, indemnify or hold harmless Tenant or any other
person or entity except for those matters arising from the lender's breach of
the terms of this Lease after the date of such foreclosure, deed in lieu of
foreclosure or any other means, and (ii) such succeeding lender shall have no
liability for any representations or warranties of the Landlord contained herein
except for those matters arising from the lender's breach of the terms of this
Lease after the date of such foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure or any
other means.

     17.21 ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Lease sets forth all covenants, promises,
agreements, conditions and understandings between Landlord and Tenant concerning
the Building and the Project, and there are no covenants, promises, agreements,
conditions or understandings, either oral or written, between Landlord and
Tenant other than as are herein set forth. No subsequent alteration, amendment,
change or addition to the Lease shall be binding upon Landlord or Tenant unless
reduced to writing and signed by Landlord and Tenant.

     17.22 FINANCIAL COVENANTS. If Tenant is not a publicly traded company with
its financial information readily available to the public on the Internet, at
Landlord's request, Tenant shall provide Landlord with current annual audited
financial statements and quarterly unaudited financial statements (all such
statements shall be prepared in compliance with GAAP standards) setting forth
Tenant's financial condition.

     17.23 CONSENTS. Whenever the approval or consent of Landlord or Tenant is
required under the terms of this Lease, such consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed unless a different standard of approval is specifically set
forth in the particular Section containing that particular consent requirement.
<PAGE>
     17.24 EXHIBITS. Exhibits A through H are attached to this Lease after the
signatures and by this reference incorporated herein.

     17.25 TIME. Time is of the essence with respect to the performance of every
provision of this Lease in which time of performance is a factor.

     17.26 AUTHORITY TO BIND LANDLORD. The individuals signing this Lease on
behalf of Landlord hereby represent and warrant that they are empowered and duly
authorized to bind Landlord to this Lease.

     17.27 AUTHORITY TO BIND TENANT. The individuals signing this Lease on
behalf of Tenant hereby represent and warrant that they are empowered and duly
authorized to bind Tenant to this Lease.

     17.28 INTERPRETATION. The parties hereto specifically acknowledge and agree
that the terms of this Lease have been mutually negotiated and the parties
hereby specifically waive the rule or principle of contract construction which
provides that any ambiguity in any term or provision of a contract will be
interpreted or resolved against the party which drafted such term or provision.

     17.29 EXCUSED DELAYS. Except as otherwise set forth in this Section 17.30,
neither party shall have liability to the other on account of the following acts
(each of which is an "Excused Delay" and jointly all of which are "Excused
Delays")" which shall include: (a) the inability to fulfill, or delay in
fulfilling, any obligations under this Lease by reason of strike, lockout, other
labor trouble, dispute or disturbance; (b) governmental regulation, moratorium,
action, preemption or priorities or other controls; (c) shortages of fuel,
supplies or labor; (d) any failure or defect in the supply, quantity or
character of electricity or water furnished to the Premises by reason of any
requirement, act or omission of the public utility or others furnishing the
Building with electricity or water; or (e) for any other reason, whether similar
or dissimilar to the above, or for act of God beyond a party's reasonable
control. If this Lease specifies a time period for performance of an obligation
of a party, that time period shall be extended by the period of any delay in the
party's performance caused by any of the events of Excused Delay described
herein; provided, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, no
payment of money (whether as Base Rent, Tenant's Share of Operating Expenses, or
any other payment due under this Lease) shall be postponed, delayed or forgiven
by reason of any of the foregoing events of Excused Delay.

     17.30 QUIET ENJOYMENT. Until such time as this Lease has expired or been
terminated pursuant to this Lease, Tenant shall peaceably and quietly have,
hold, and enjoy the Premises for the Term of this Lease without hindrance or
disturbance by anyone. Landlord will defend Tenant's right to quiet enjoyment of
the Premises from the lawful claims of all persons claiming through Landlord
during the Term of the Lease.

     17.31 LANDLORD'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. Landlord represents and
warrants as follows:

           (a)  Landlord has received no written notice of any liens to be
assessed against the Premises, Buildings, or Project;

           (b)  Landlord has received no written notice or any current violation
of any laws relating to the Premises, Buildings, or Project;

           (c)  The execution, delivery, and performance of this Lease by
Landlord will not result in any breach of, or constitute any default under, or
result in the imposition of any lien or encumbrance on the Premises under any
agreement or other instrument to which Landlord is a party or by which Landlord
or the Premises might be bound;

           (d)  To the best of Landlord's actual knowledge, there are no legal
actions, suits, or other legal or administrative proceedings, including
condemnation cases, pending or threatened, against the Premises, and Landlord is
not aware of any fact that might result in any such action, suit, or other
proceeding.
<PAGE>
                       ARTICLE XVIII RIGHT OF FIRST OFFER

     If space becomes available for lease in the Building, and Landlord elects
to lease such space to a third party, Landlord agrees to give Tenant a one-time
right of first offer as follows: Landlord shall give Tenant written notice of
Landlord's intention to market such premises for lease (the "Offer Premises")
and the terms under at which Landlord intends to market the Offer Premises for
lease (the "Notice"). Landlord agrees not to market the Offer Premises for lease
for 30 days following the date of the Notice (the "Negotiation Period") and, if
Tenant is interested in leasing the Offer Premises at the price set forth in the
Notice, Landlord agrees to negotiate in good faith with Tenant during the
Negotiation Period the terms of Tenant's lease of the Offer Premises. If
Landlord and Tenant do not enter into a binding written lease pertaining to the
lease of the Offer Premises before the end of the Negotiation Period, Tenant's
rights under this Article XVIII shall terminate and be of no further force or
effect.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Lease as of the date
first above written.



"Landlord"                                 "Tenant"

SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.                 SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.


By: /s/ K. Novack                          By: /s/ R. Philip
    -----------------------------              ----------------------------

Its: CEO                                   Its: CEO
     ----------------------------               ----------------------------

<PAGE>
                                    EXHIBIT A

                              INTENTIONALLY OMITTED


<PAGE>
                                    EXHIBIT B

                                PROJECT SITE PLAN


<PAGE>
                                    EXHIBIT C

                                   FLOOR PLAN


<PAGE>
                                    EXHIBIT D

                                  WORK SCHEDULE



WORK ACTIVITY                                                         MILESTONE
- -------------                                                         ---------



                       REVIEW TENANT'S INITIAL SPACE PLAN



Tenant Improvements Pricing Complete

Pull Tenant Improvement Permit

Commence Tenant Improvements

Tenant Improvements

Certificate of Occupancy

Tenant's Occupancy & Lease Commencement

Punch List Completion


<PAGE>
                                    EXHIBIT E

                      SCHEDULE OF TENANT IMPROVEMENT PLANS

                 3200 Yeon Remodel - First Floor and Lower Level
                           Prepared by Yost Grube Hall

                                  DRAWING INDEX
                                     6/27/03


ARCHITECTURAL
- -------------
A0.01         Cover Sheet & Code Summary
A1.01         Lower & First floor Demolition Plans
A2.01         Lower & First Floor Floor Plans
A4.01         Enlarged Plans - Toilet Rooms
A6.01         Interior Elevations
A7.01         Lower & First Floor Reflected Ceiling Plans
A9.01         Partition Types & Typ Interior Details
A9.02         Typ Ceiling Details
A9.03         Interior Details
A10.01        Lower & First Floor Finish Plans

MECHANICAL
- ----------
M0.01         Mechanical Legend & Abbreviations
M1.02         Mechanical Details
M0.02         Mechanical Details
M0.03         Mechanical Schedules
M0.04         Mechanical Specifications
M1.01         Mechanical Demolition Floor Plans
M2.01         Mechanical Floor Plans
M2.02         Mechanical Roof Plans

ELECTRICAL
- ----------
E0.01         Electrical Legend & Abbreviations
E0.02         Electrical Schedules
E0.03         Specifications
E1.01         Electrical Demolition Floor Plans - Power & Signal
E1.02         Electrical Demolition Floor Plans - Lighting
E2.01         Electrical Floor Plans Floor Plans - Power & Signal
E2.02         Electrical Floor Plans - Lighting
E2.02E        Electrical Floor Plans - Egress Lighting
E2.03         Electrical Roof Plans - Power
E6.01         Electrical Single Line Diagram
E7.01         Electrical Details
<PAGE>
                                    EXHIBIT F

                               LEASE CONFIRMATION


     This Lease Confirmation is made __________, 20__, by ____________________,
a _______________________ ("Tenant"), who agree as follows:

     1.   Landlord and Tenant entered into a lease dated _______________, 20__,
in which Landlord leased to Tenant and Tenant leased from Landlord the premises
described in Section 2.1 of said Lease ("Premises"). All capitalized terms
herein are as defined in the Lease.

     2.   Pursuant to the Lease, Landlord and Tenant agreed to and do hereby
confirm the following matters as of the Commencement of the Term:

          a. _______________, 20__ is the Commencement Date of the Term of the
Lease;

          b. _______________, 20___ is the expiration date of the Term of the
Lease;

          c.  The initial Base Rent under the Lease, subject to adjustments as
provided in the Lease, is $__________.

     3.   Tenant confirms that:

          a.  It has accepted possession of the Premises as provided in the
Lease;

          b.  The improvements required to be furnished by Landlord under the
Lease have been furnished (subject to any corrective work or punch-list items of
which Tenant has notified Landlord in accordance with the Lease);

          c.  Landlord has fulfilled all its duties of an inducement nature;

          d.  The Lease is in full force and effect and has not been modified,
altered, or amended, except as follows:

              ______________________________________________

              ______________________________________________; and


          e.  There are no setoffs or credits against Rent, and no Security
Deposit or prepaid rent has been paid except as provided by the Lease.

     4.   The provisions of this Lease Confirmation shall inure to the benefit,
or bind, as the case may require, the parties and their respective successors
and assigns, subject to the restrictions on assignment and subleasing contained
in the Lease.

                           Initials

                           Landlord: _________________

                           Tenant: ___________________
<PAGE>
                                    EXHIBIT G

                              ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE

__________________

__________________

__________________


     Re: Lease dated __________, 2___ ("Lease") by and between ______________
("Landlord"), and _______________ ("Tenant")

     Ladies and Gentlemen:

     Reference is made to the above-described Lease in which the undersigned is
the Tenant. We understand that you are accepting an assignment of Landlord's
rights under the Lease as ____________________, and we hereby, as a material
inducement for you to consummate the transaction, represent that:

     1.   There are no modifications amendments, supplements, arrangements, side
letters or understandings, oral or written, of any sort, modifying, amending,
altering, supplementing or changing the terms of the Lease, except for those
attached to this Certificate.

     2.   The Lease is in full force and effect, and the Lease has been duly
executed and delivered by, and is a binding obligation of, the Tenant as set
forth therein.

     3.   The undersigned acknowledges (a) that rent on the Lease has been paid
up to and including _____________, 2___ (b) that monthly rent during the
______________ (___) years of the term of the Lease is $___________ per month,
and (c) that rent has not been paid for any period after ____________, 2___ and
shall not, except for any Prepaid Rent as specified in the Lease, be paid for a
period in excess of one (1) month in advance.

     4.   To the current knowledge of the undersigned, the improvements on the
Building are free from defects in design, materials and workmanship and the
improvements meet all governmental requirements, including, but not limited to,
zoning and environmental requirements.

     5.   To the current knowledge of the undersigned, the Lease is not in
default, and Landlord has performed the obligations required to be preformed by
Landlord under the terms thereof through the date hereof.

     Dated: ________________, 2___.


Very truly yours,

"Tenant"
___________________________

___________________________

___________________________


By: _______________________

Its: ______________________
<PAGE>
                                    EXHIBIT H

                          OFFICE RULES AND REGULATIONS


     1.   SIGN. No sign, placard, picture, advertisement, name or notice shall
be inscribed, displayed, printed or affixed on or to any part of the outside or
inside of the Building, the Premises or the surrounding area without the written
consent of the Landlord being first obtained. If such consent is given by
Landlord, Landlord may regulate the manner of display of the sign, placard,
picture, advertisement, name or notice. Landlord shall have the right to remove
any sign, placard, picture, advertisement, name or notice which has not been
approved by Landlord or is being displayed in a non-approved manner without
notice to and at the expense of the Tenant. Tenant shall not place anything or
allow anything to be placed near the glass of any window, door, partition or
wall which may appear unsightly from outside of the Premises.

     2.   DIRECTORY. The bulletin board or directory of the Building will be
provided exclusively for the display of the name and location of tenants and
Landlord reserves the right to exclude any other names therefrom.

     3.   ACCESS. The sidewalks, halls, passages, exits, entrances, elevators
and stairways shall not be obstructed by any of the tenants or used by them for
any purpose other than for ingress to and egress from their respective Premises.
The halls, passages, entrances, exits, elevators, stairways, balconies and roof
are not for the use of the general public and the Landlord shall in all cases
retain the right to control thereof and prevent access thereto by all persons
whose presence in the judgment of the Landlord shall be prejudicial to the
safety, character, reputation and interests of the Building or its tenants;
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent
access by persons with whom the Tenant normally deals in the ordinary course of
Tenant's business unless such persons are engaged in illegal activities. No
Tenant and no employees or invitees of any Tenant shall go upon the roof of the
Building.

     4.   LOCKS. Tenant shall not alter any lock or install any new additional
locks or any bolts on any door of the Premises without the written consent of
Landlord.

     5.   RESTROOMS. The toilet rooms, urinals, wash bowls and other apparatus
shall not be used for any purpose other than that for which they were
constructed and no foreign substance of any kind whatsoever shall be thrown
therein. The expense of any breakage, stoppage or damage resulting from a
violation of this rule shall be borne by the Tenant who, or whose employees,
sublessees, assignees, agents, licensees, or invitees shall have caused it.

     6.   NO DEFACING PREMISES. Tenant shall not overload the floor of the
Premises, shall not mark on or drive nails, screw or drill into the partitions,
woodwork or plaster (except as may be incidental to the hanging of wall
decorations), and shall not in any way deface the Premises or any part thereof.

     7.   SAFES AND HEAVY EQUIPMENT. No furniture, freight or equipment of any
kind shall be brought into the Building without the consent of Landlord and all
moving of the same into or out of the Building shall be done at such time and in
such manner as Landlord shall designate. Landlord shall have the right to
prescribe the times and manner of moving all heavy equipment in and out of the
Building. Landlord will not be responsible for loss of or damage to any such
safe or property from any cause and all damage done to the Building by moving or
maintaining any such safe or other property shall be repaired at the expense of
Tenant. There shall not be used in any Premises or in the public halls of the
Building, either by any tenant or others, any hand trucks except those equipped
with rubber tires and side guards. Elevators must be padded while moving freight
via the elevators. All such heavy equipment shall be subject to the requirements
of Rule 25 below.

     8.   NUISANCE. Tenant shall not use, keep or permit to be used or kept any
noxious gas or substance in the Premises, or permit or suffer the Premises to be
occupied or used in a manner offensive or objectionable to the Landlord or other
occupants of the Building by reason of excessive noise, odors and/or vibrations,
or unreasonably interfere in any way with other tenants or those having business
in the Building. No animals or birds shall be brought in or kept in or about the
Premises or the Building. No Tenant shall make or permit to be made any
<PAGE>
unreasonably disturbing noises or unreasonably disturb or interfere with
occupants of this or neighboring Buildings or Premises, or with those having
business with such occupants by the use of any musical instrument, radio,
phonograph, unusual noise, or in any other way. No Tenant shall throw anything
out of doors or down the passageways.

     9.   PERMITTED USE. The Premises shall not be used for manufacturing or for
the storage of merchandise except as such storage may be incidental to the use
of the Premises for general office purposes. No Tenant shall occupy or permit
any portion of its Premises to be occupied for the manufacture or sale of
liquor, narcotics, or tobacco in any form, or as a medical office, or as a
barber shop or manicure shop except with prior written consent of Landlord. No
Tenant shall advertise for laborers giving an address at the Premises. The
Premises shall not be used for lodging or sleeping or for illegal purposes.

     10.  HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Tenant shall not use or keep in the Premises or
the Building any kerosene, gasoline or inflammable or combustible fluid or
material or any Hazardous Materials as defined in Section 10.2 of the Lease or
use any method of heating or air conditioning other than that supplied by
Landlord.

     11.  TELEPHONES. Landlord will direct electricians as to where and how
telephone and telegraph wires are to be introduced. No boring or cutting for or
stringing of wires will be allowed without the consent of Landlord. The location
of telephones, call boxes and other office equipment affixed to the Premises
shall be subject to the approval of Landlord.

     12.  KEYS. All keys to the Building, Premises, rooms and toilet rooms shall
be obtained from Landlord's office and Tenant shall not from any other source
duplicate or obtain keys or have keys made. The Tenant, upon termination of the
tenancy, shall deliver to the Landlord the keys to the Building, Premises, rooms
and toilet rooms which shall have been furnished and shall pay the Landlord the
cost of replacing any lost key or of changing the lock or locks opened by such
lost key if Landlord deems it necessary to make such change.

     13.  FLOOR COVERING. No Tenant shall lay linoleum, tile, carpet or other
similar floor coverings so that the same shall be affixed to the floor or the
Premises in any manner except as approved by the Landlord. The expense of
repairing any damage resulting from a violation of this rule or removal of any
floor covering shall be borne by the Tenant by whom, or by whose contractors,
agents, sublessees, licensees, employees or invitees, the floor covering shall
have been laid.

     14.  BUILDING CLOSURE. During all hours on legal holidays and such other
times as reasonably determined by Landlord from time to time, access to the
Building or to the halls, corridors, or stairways in the Building, or to the
Premises may be refused unless the person seeking access is known to any person
or employee of the Building in charge and has a pass or is properly identified.
The Landlord shall in no case be liable for damages for any error with regard to
the admission to or exclusion from the Building of any person. In case of
invasion, mob, riot, public excitement, or other commotion, the Landlord
reserves the right to prevent access to the Building during the continuance of
the same, by closing the doors or otherwise, for the safety of the tenants and
protection of the Building and property located therein. Anything to the
foregoing notwithstanding, Landlord shall have no duty to provide security
protection for the Building at any time or to monitor access thereto.

     15.  PREMISES CLOSURE. Tenant shall see that the doors of the Premises are
closed and securely locked before leaving the Building and that all water
faucets, and water apparatus are entirely shut off before Tenant or Tenant's
employees leave the Building. Tenant shall be responsible for any damage to the
Building or other tenants caused by a failure to comply with this rule. Tenant
shall at all times keep the perimeter doors and windows to the Premises closed.

     16.  DISORDERLY CONDUCT. Landlord reserves the right to exclude or expel
from the Building any person who, in the judgment of Landlord, is intoxicated or
under the influence of liquor or drugs, or who shall in any manner do any act in
violation of any of the rules and regulations of the Building.
<PAGE>
     17.  TENANT REQUESTS. Any requests of Tenant will be considered only upon
application at the office of the Landlord. Employees of Landlord shall not be
requested to perform any work or do anything outside of their regular duties
unless under special instructions from the Landlord.

     18.  VENDING MACHINES. No vending machine shall be installed, maintained or
operated upon the Premises without the written consent of the Landlord.

     19.  BUILDING NAME AND ADDRESS. Landlord shall have the right, exercisable
without notice and without liability to Tenant, to change the name and the
street address of the Building of which the Premises are a part.

     20.  EMERGENCY REGULATIONS. Tenant agrees that it shall comply with all
emergency regulations that may be issued from time to time by Landlord and
Tenant also shall provide Landlord with the names of a designated responsible
employee to represent Tenant in all matters pertaining to emergency regulations.

     21.  TENANT ADVERTISING. Without the written consent of Landlord, Tenant
shall not use the name of the Building in connection with or in promotion or
advertising the business of Tenant except as Tenant's address.

     22.  EMERGENCY INFORMATION. Tenant must provide Landlord with names and
telephone numbers to contact in case of emergency. Tenant must fill out a tenant
emergency information sheet and return it to Landlord's office within three (3)
days of occupancy.

     23.  INSTALLATION OF BURGLAR AND INFORMATIONAL SERVICES. If Tenant requires
telegraphic, telephonic, burglar alarm or similar services, it shall first
obtain, and comply with, Landlord's instructions in their installation.

     24.  FLOOR LOADS. Tenant shall not place a load upon any floor of the
Premises which exceeds the load per square foot, which such floor was designed
to carry and which is allowed by law. Landlord shall have the right to prescribe
the weight, size and position of all equipment, materials, furniture or other
property brought into the Building. Heavy objects shall, if considered necessary
by Landlord, stand on such platforms as determined by Landlord to be necessary
to properly distribute the weight, which platforms shall be provided at Tenant's
expense. Business machines and mechanical equipment belonging to Tenant, which
cause noise or vibration that may be transmitted to the structure of the
Building or to any space therein to such a degree as to be objectionable to
Landlord or to any tenants in the Building, shall be placed and maintained by
Tenant, at Tenant's expense, on vibration eliminators or other devices
sufficient to eliminate noise or vibration. The persons employed to move such
equipment in or out of the Building must be acceptable to Landlord. Landlord
will not be responsible for loss of, or damage to, any such equipment or other
property from any cause, and all damage done to the Building by maintaining or
moving such equipment or other property shall be repaired at the expense of
Tenant.

     25.  ENERGY CONSERVATION. Tenant shall not waste electricity, water or air
conditioning and agrees to cooperate fully with Landlord to assure the most
effective operation of the Building's heating and air-conditioning and to comply
with any governmental energy-saving rules, laws or regulations of which Tenant
has actual notice, and shall refrain from attempting to adjust controls. Tenant
shall keep corridor doors closed.

     26.  NO ANTENNAS. Tenant shall not install any radio or television antenna,
loudspeaker or other devices on the roof or exterior walls of the Building.
Tenant shall not interfere with radio or television broadcasting or reception
from or in the Building or elsewhere.

     27.  NO SOLICITING. Canvassing, soliciting and distribution of handbills or
any other written material, and peddling in the Building are prohibited, and
Tenant shall cooperate to prevent such activities.

     28.  PROHIBITED USES. The Premises shall not be used for any improper,
immoral or objectionable purpose. No cooking shall be done or permitted on the
Premises without Landlord's consent, except that use by Tenant of Underwriters
Laboratory approved equipment for brewing coffee, tea, hot chocolate and similar
beverages or use of microwave ovens for employee use shall be permitted,
provided that such equipment and use is in accordance with all applicable
federal, state, county and city laws, codes, ordinances, rules and regulations.
<PAGE>
     29.  ENFORCEMENT OF RULES. Landlord may waive any one or more of these
Rules and Regulations for the benefit of Tenant or any other Tenant but no such
waiver by Landlord shall be construed as a waiver of such Rules and Regulations
in favor of Tenant, nor prevent Landlord from thereafter enforcing any such
Rules and Regulations against any or all of the tenants of the Building.

     30.  LEASE. These Rules and Regulations are in addition to, and are made a
part of, the terms, covenants, agreements and conditions of Tenant's Lease of
its Premises in the Building.

     31.  ADDITIONAL RULES. Landlord reserves the right to make such other Rules
and Regulations or amendments hereto as, in its reasonable judgment, may from
time to time be needed for safety and security, for care and cleanliness of the
Building and for the preservation of good order therein. Tenant agrees to abide
by all such Rules and Regulations hereinabove stated and any additional rules
and regulations which are adopted.

     32.  OBSERVANCE OF RULES. Tenant shall be responsible for the observance of
all of the foregoing rules by Tenant's employees, agents, licensees, sublessees,
assigns, and invitees.

     33.  MAINTENANCE OF FIRE EXTINGUISHERS. Tenant shall maintain in the
Premises during the entire Lease Term, not less than the minimum number of fire
extinguishers required by law and Tenant shall inspect all such fire
extinguishers not less frequently than once each month to assure that the same
are fully charged and in good operational condition. Annually the Tenant shall
have all fire extinguishers inspected by an authorized and qualified inspector
who shall certify that each such fire extinguisher complies with all applicable
requirements of the NFPA. If any such fire extinguishers fail to obtain such
certification, then within three (3) business days after such failure such fire
extinguishers shall be replaced, or repaired, and re-inspected and a
certification shall be issued certifying that all such fire extinguishers comply
with all applicable requirements of the NFPA.

     34.  EMERGENCY. In the event of a fire or other emergency threatening
property or health and safety, Tenant shall immediately notify the appropriate
emergency response officials and Landlord of such emergency.
<PAGE>
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                                                            Page

ARTICLE I       DEFINITIONS....................................................1
         1.1    Defined Terms..................................................1

ARTICLE II      PREMISES AND COMMON AREAS LEASED...............................3
         2.1    Premises.......................................................3
         2.2    Common Areas...................................................3
         2.3    Shared Use of Building Areas...................................3

ARTICLE III     IMPROVEMENTS...................................................4
         3.1    Construction of Premises.......................................4
         3.2    Completion and Delivery........................................5
         3.3    Relocation; Continuance of Current Lease During Construction...5
         3.4    Repaint and Recarpeting........................................6

ARTICLE IV      TERM...........................................................6
         4.1    Initial Term...................................................6
         4.2    Notice of Commencement Date....................................6
         4.3    Option to Extend...............................................6

ARTICLE V       RENT...........................................................7
         5.1    Base Rent......................................................7
         5.2    Additional Rent................................................8
         5.3    Late Payment...................................................8
         5.4    Security Deposit.  Intentionally deleted.......................8

ARTICLE VI      ADDITIONAL RENT AND CHARGES....................................8
         6.1    Operating Expenses.............................................8
         6.2    Adjustments...................................................13
         6.3    Tenant's Personal Property Taxes..............................13

ARTICLE VII     INSURANCE.....................................................13
         7.1    Landlord's Insurance..........................................13
         7.2    Tenant's Public Liability.....................................14
         7.3    Tenant's Property and Other Insurance.........................14
         7.4    Form of Insurance/Certificates................................14
         7.5    Tenant's Failure..............................................14
         7.6    Waiver of Subrogation.........................................14
         7.7    Tenant's Properties and Fixtures..............................15
         7.8    Indemnification...............................................15
         7.9    Damage to Tenant's Property...................................16

ARTICLE VIII    REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.......................................16
         8.1    Landlord Repairs and Maintenance..............................16
         8.2    Utilities and Services........................................16
         8.3    Tenant Repairs and Maintenance................................16
         8.4    Non-liability of Landlord.....................................17
         8.5    Inspection of Premises........................................17
         8.6    Access by Tenant..............................................17
<PAGE>
ARTICLE IX      FIXTURES, PERSONAL PROPERTY AND ALTERATIONS...................17
         9.1    Fixtures and Personal Property................................17
         9.2    Alterations...................................................17
         9.3    Liens.........................................................18

ARTICLE X       USE AND COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS..................................18
         10.1   General Use and Compliance with Laws..........................18
         10.2   Hazardous Materials...........................................19
         10.3   Signs.........................................................20

ARTICLE XI      DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION........................................21
         11.1   Reconstruction................................................21
         11.2   Rent Abatement................................................21
         11.3   Excessive Damage or Destruction...............................21
         11.4   Uninsured Casualty............................................21
         11.5   Waiver........................................................21
         11.6   Mortgagee's Right.............................................21
         11.7   Damage Near End of Term.......................................22

ARTICLE XII     EMINENT DOMAIN................................................22

ARTICLE XIII    DEFAULT.......................................................22
         13.1   Events of Default.............................................22
         13.2   Remedies......................................................23
         13.3   Landlord's Default............................................24

ARTICLE XIV     FILING OF PETITION............................................24

ARTICLE XV      ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING.....................................25
         15.1   Prohibition...................................................25
         15.2   Excess Rental.................................................25
         15.3   Scope.........................................................26
         15.4   Waiver........................................................26
         15.5   Change in Control.............................................26

ARTICLE XVI     ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE, ATTORNMENT AND SUBORDINATION............26
         16.1   Estoppel Certificates.........................................26
         16.2   Attornment....................................................27
         16.3   Subordination.................................................27
         16.4   Recording.....................................................27
         16.5   Subordination of Landlord's Lien..............................27

ARTICLE XVII    MISCELLANEOUS.................................................27
         17.1   Notices.......................................................27
         17.2   Successors Bound..............................................27
         17.3   Waiver........................................................27
         17.4   Subdivision and Easements.....................................28
         17.5   Landlord's Reserved Rights in Common Areas....................28
         17.6   Accord and Satisfaction.......................................28
         17.7   Limitation of Landlord's Liability............................28
         17.8   Survival......................................................28
         17.9   Attorneys' Fees...............................................28
         17.10  Captions and Article Numbers..................................28
         17.11  Severability..................................................29
<PAGE>

         17.12  Applicable Law................................................29
         17.13  Submission of Lease...........................................29
         17.14  Holding Over..................................................29
         17.15  Rules and Regulations.........................................29
         17.16  Parking.......................................................29
         17.17  No Nuisance...................................................30
         17.18  Broker; Agency Disclosure.....................................30
         17.19  Landlord's Right to Perform...................................30
         17.20  Assignment by Landlord........................................30
         17.21  Entire Agreement..............................................30
         17.22  Financial Covenants...........................................30
         17.23  Consents......................................................30
         17.24  Exhibits......................................................31
         17.25  Time..........................................................31
         17.26  Authority to Bind Landlord....................................31
         17.27  Authority to Bind Tenant......................................31
         17.28  Interpretation................................................31
         17.29  Excused Delays................................................31
         17.30  Quiet Enjoyment...............................................31
         17.31  Landlord's Representations and Warranties.....................31

ARTICLE XVIII   RIGHT OF FIRST OFFER..........................................32

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>exh10-2_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>LEASE AGREEMENT DATED AUGUST 7, 2003
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.2
                                                                    ------------













                              YEON BUSINESS CENTER
                              (3330 NW YEON AVENUE)

                                 LEASE AGREEMENT

                           SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.

                                   (LANDLORD)

                                       AND

                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

                                    (TENANT)



                              DATED: AUGUST 7, 2003
<PAGE>

                                 LEASE AGREEMENT

     THIS LEASE ("Lease") dated as of the 7th day of August, 2003, is made by
and between SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP., an Oregon corporation ("Landlord"), and
SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC., an Oregon corporation ("Tenant").

                             ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS

     1.1 DEFINED TERMS. The following terms shall have the meanings specified in
this Section, unless otherwise specifically provided. Other terms may be defined
in other parts of the Lease.

         (a) Landlord:               SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.

         (b) Landlord's Address:     c/o Schnitzer Northwest, LLC
                                     5800 Meadow Road, Suite 200
                                     Lake Oswego, OR 97035
                                     Telephone: (503) 598-1842
                                     Facsimile: (503) 598-1843

             With a Copy to:         Ball Janik LLP
                                     101 SW Main Street, Suite 1100
                                     Portland, Oregon 97204
                                     Attn:  Barbara W. Radler
                                     Telephone:  (503) 228-2525
                                     Facsimile:  (503) 295-1058

         (c) Landlord's Address      Schnitzer Investment Corp.
             for payment of Rent     PO Box 4000
                                     M/S 78
                                     Portland, OR 97208

         (d) Tenant:                 SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.

         (e) Tenant's Address:       3200 NW Yeon Avenue
                                     PO Box 10047
                                     Portland, OR  97296-0047
                                     Attn:  Kelly E. Lang

         (f) Tenant's Use:           General office use, information services,
                                     and related, incidental uses

         (g) Project:                Yeon Business Center, including all
                                     buildings and Common Areas thereon and
                                     related thereto, as depicted on the Project
                                     Site Plan attached as Exhibit A.

         (h) Building:               That certain building designated as
                                     Building 3 on the Project Site Plan
                                     attached hereto as Exhibit A with a
                                     rentable area of approximately 16,852
                                     square feet, and with a street address of
                                     3330 NW Yeon Avenue, Portland, Oregon.

         (i) Premises:               Approximately 5,043 rentable square feet on
                                     the second floor of the Building as
                                     depicted on the attached Exhibit B.

                                      -1-
<PAGE>

         (j) Term:                   Commencing on the commencement date of the
                                     Lease Agreement between Landlord and Tenant
                                     pertaining to premises in the 3200 NW Yeon
                                     Building dated as of the same date of this
                                     Lease (the "Commencement Date"), and
                                     expiring on the last day of the month
                                     during the month that is ten (10) years
                                     after the Commencement Date.

         (k) Base Rent:

             MONTHS        RENT PRSF (ANNUAL)         MONTHLY INSTALLMENTS

              1-12             $16.00                       $6,724.00
              13-24            $16.40                       $6,892.10
              25-36            $16.81                       $7,064.40
              37-48            $17.23                       $7,240.91
              49-60            $17.66                       $7,421.62
              61-72            $18.10                       $7,606.53
              73-84            $18.55                       $7,795.64
              85-96            $19.01                       $7,988.95
             97-108            $19.49                       $8,190.67
             109-120           $19.98                       $8,396.60

         (l) Base Year:                                 2004

         (m) Prepaid Rent:                              $0.00

         (n) Security Deposit:                          $0.00

         (o) Tenant's Share of Building:                29.93%

         (p) Tenant's Share of Project:                 1.88%

         (q) Surface Parking Spaces: 14 uncovered unreserved surface parking
                                     spaces in the Project shall be provided in
                                     the parking area adjacent to the Building
                                     for the non-exclusive use of Tenant, its
                                     employees and visitors, subject to
                                     reduction due to governmental regulation.

         (r) Exhibits:               Exhibit A:  Project Site Plan
                                     Exhibit B:  Floor Plan
                                     Exhibit C:  Lease Confirmation
                                     Exhibit D:  Estoppel Certificate
                                     Exhibit E:  Rules and Regulations

                  ARTICLE II PREMISES AND COMMON AREAS LEASED

     2.1 PREMISES.

         (a) Landlord hereby leases to Tenant, and Tenant hereby leases from
Landlord, subject to the provisions of this Lease, certain premises as more
fully described on the attached Exhibit B ("Premises") located within that
certain building ("Building") owned by Landlord and which is a portion of the
"Project" identified in Section 1.1(g). The Site Plan for the Project attached
hereto as Exhibit A is attached for location reference purposes only and shall
not constitute a representation or warranty by Landlord to be the final plan of
the Project, or to require Landlord to build any improvements, or to otherwise
comply with the site plan or require Landlord to lease space to a particular
tenant or type of tenant.

                                      -2-
<PAGE>

         (b) The rentable areas of the Premises and of the Building specified in
Section 1.1 are approximate. Tenant is satisfied with such approximations and
with Landlord's measurement of the rentable areas of the Premises and of the
Building. Tenant acknowledges that, except as otherwise expressly set forth in
this Lease, neither Landlord nor any agent, property manager or broker of
Landlord has made any representation or warranty with respect to the Premises,
the Building, the Common Areas or the Project or their suitability for the
conduct of Tenant' s business, and that except only for any improvements that
Landlord has expressly agreed herein to construct and install, the Premises is
leased in its "As-Is" condition existing at the time of execution of this Lease.

     2.2 COMMON AREAS. In addition to the Premises, Tenant shall have the
non-exclusive right to use in common with other tenants and/or occupants of the
Project, the following areas appurtenant to the Building: parking areas and
facilities, roadways, sidewalks, walkways, parkways, plazas, levees, driveways
and landscaped areas and similar areas and facilities situated within the
exterior areas of the Project and not otherwise designated for the exclusive or
restricted use by Landlord and/or individual tenants of other buildings located
within the Project (collectively, "Common Areas"). Common Areas also include the
Building lobby, and shared entryways, restrooms, corridors, stairways, and
elevators, as modified from time to time. Tenant's right to utilize the Common
Areas shall at all times be subject to Landlord's reserved rights therein as
described in Section 17.5 hereof, the Rules and Regulations referred to in
Section 17.15 hereof, all encumbrances, easements, ground leases, and covenants,
conditions and restrictions ("CC&Rs") now affecting or encumbering the Project
and all encumbrances, easements, ground leases, and CC&R's affecting or
encumbering the Project in the future, to the extent they do not materially and
adversely affect Tenant's rights to use the Common Areas under this Lease.

                            ARTICLE III IMPROVEMENTS

     3.1 CONSTRUCTION OF PREMISES.

         (a) TENANT IMPROVEMENTS. Landlord or Landlord's space planner or
architect, in cooperation with Tenant and its consultants, shall prepare plans
and specifications for improvements (the "Tenant Improvements") to the Premises
(the "Tenant Improvement Plans") which shall be subject to the approval of
Landlord and Tenant, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. After
the Tenant Improvement Plans have been prepared and approved by the parties,
final pricing has been approved by Landlord and Tenant and building permits have
been issued (if any), Landlord shall cause the Tenant Improvements to be
constructed in accordance with the Tenant Improvement Plans. After final
approval of the Tenant Improvement Plans, no changes to the Tenant Improvement
Plans shall be made except with the approval of both Landlord and Tenant.
Landlord shall cause the Tenant Improvements to be completed in a good and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with the building permit issued therefor
(if any) by the City of Portland. Landlord shall work diligently and in good
faith to complete the Tenant Improvements within one year following the
Commencement Date. Upon substantial completion of the Tenant Improvements in the
Premises, Landlord's architect shall measure the number of rentable square feet
in the Premises (using the American National Standard Method of Measuring Floor
Area in Office Buildings, ANSI-BOMA Z65.1-1996, published by the Building Owners
and Managers Association International). The resulting number shall be the
number of rentable square feet in the Premises for all purposes of the Lease. If
the resulting number differs from 5,043 rentable square feet, then Base Rent,
Tenant's Share of the Building, Tenant's Share of the Project, and Tenant's
Share of the Operating Expense Increase shall be adjusted accordingly.

         (b) PAYMENT OF TENANT IMPROVEMENTS COSTS. Landlord will pay up to the
sum of $50,430.00 (the "Improvement Allowance") ($10.00 per rentable square foot
of the Premises) toward the Tenant Improvements pursuant to the Tenant
Improvement Plans, which costs shall include all costs, fees, and expenses
incurred by Landlord in connection with the planning, design, installation,
labor, materials and construction of the Tenant Improvements (collectively
"Tenant Improvement Costs"). Any costs for the Tenant Improvements in excess of
the Improvement Allowance shall be paid by Tenant within 15 days after
Landlord's billing therefor. Tenant will, at its sole cost and expense, pay for
any improvements to the Premises not expressly included in the Tenant
Improvement Plans and shall arrange for the installation of all Tenant's
furniture, fixtures and equipment associated with its business. Costs associated
with Tenant's equipment, layout, design and construction coordination are also
the sole responsibility of Tenant.

                                      -3-
<PAGE>

     3.2 CONTINUANCE OF CURRENT LEASE DURING CONSTRUCTION OF TENANT
IMPROVEMENTS. Tenant currently leases the Premises pursuant to (a) a Lease
Agreement dated February 18, 1997, as amended by a First Amendment of Lease
dated February 22, 2002; (b) a Lease Agreement dated March 24, 1980, as amended
by an Extension of Lease dated April 19, 1985, an Amendment to Lease dated June
4, 1987, a Second Extension of Lease dated April 15, 1988, a Third Extension of
Lease dated September 1, 1988, a Second Amendment of Lease dated April 1, 1991,
a Fourth Extension of Lease dated August 27, 1993, a Third Amendment of Lease
dated May 29, 1996, a Fourth Amendment of Lease dated March 31, 1997, a Fifth
Extension of Lease dated August 21, 1998, and a Sixth Extension of Lease dated
February 22, 2002; (c) a Lease Agreement dated July 19, 2002; and (d) an Office
Lease dated March 1, 1995, as amended by an Amendment of Lease dated March 31,
1997, an Extension of Lease dated August 21, 1998, and a Second Extension of
Lease dated February 22, 2002 (collectively, the "Current Lease"). The Current
Lease shall continue in full force and effect until the Commencement Date of
this Lease. Effective immediately prior to the Commencement Date of this Lease
(the "Termination Date"), the Current Lease shall terminate and all rights and
obligations of Landlord and Tenant under the Current Lease shall terminate
except for rights and obligations accrued as of the Termination Date pertaining
to events occurring on or prior to the Termination Date.

                                ARTICLE IV TERM

     4.1 INITIAL TERM. The Term shall commence on the Commencement Date, as set
forth in Section 1.1(j). The Term shall expire upon the date set forth in
Section 1.1(j), unless sooner terminated as hereinafter provided.

     4.2 NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT DATE. Landlord shall use good faith efforts to
inform Tenant of the estimated date of substantial completion at least five (5)
days prior to such date. Upon ascertaining the date of substantial completion
and the Commencement Date, Landlord shall deliver to Tenant a written
confirmation in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C ("Lease Confirmation") of
said dates of substantial completion and the Commencement Date. The Lease
Confirmation shall be binding upon Tenant unless Tenant objects to the notice in
writing delivered to Landlord within five (5) days of Tenant's receipt of said
Lease Confirmation.

     4.3 OPTION TO EXTEND.

         (a) Subject to and upon the terms and conditions set forth below,
Tenant will have one option to extend the term of this Lease for one additional
successive period of five years (the "Renewal Term").

         (b) Tenant's option to extend the Term must be exercised by written
notice given to Landlord (the "Renewal Notice") no less than 365 days prior to
the end of the Initial Term.

         (c) Tenant shall not be permitted to extend the Term of this Lease if
there exists any uncured Event of Default by Tenant as of the date of the
Renewal Notice.

         (d) The Renewal Term will be on the same terms and conditions as this
Lease except for the amount of monthly Base Rent. During the Renewal Term,
Tenant shall pay as monthly Base Rent an amount equal to the greater of (a) the
Base Rent and Additional Rent payable by Tenant immediately prior to the
commencement of the Renewal Term or (b) Market Rent for the Premises for the
Renewal Term. Market Rent during the Renewal Term shall be equal to rents
typically payable for the five year Renewal Term for comparable space by tenants
of buildings of comparable quality in the vicinity of the Premises, taking into
account the base year for the Renewal Term as described in Section 4.3(f) below.
Landlord and Tenant agree that once Tenant has timely delivered its Renewal
Notice, both parties will be responsible for their respective rights and
obligations under this Lease for the Renewal Term, regardless of the outcome of
the Base Rent determination. The word "Term" shall be used throughout this Lease
to include both the Initial Term and the Renewal Term, if applicable.

         (e) The Market Rent for the Renewal Term will be determined as follows:

             (i) If Tenant properly exercises its option to extend the Term for
the Renewal Term, Landlord and Tenant shall attempt to agree as to the Market
Rent at least 270 days prior to the expiration of the

                                      -4-
<PAGE>

Initial Term. If Landlord and Tenant do not agree as to the Market Rent by such
date, then no later than 210 days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term,
each shall designate a real estate broker having at least ten (10) years'
experience in leasing space comparable to the Premises in the Portland
metropolitan area or an MAI-certified appraiser having at least five (5) years'
experience in the appraisal of lease rates of office space in the Portland
metropolitan area. The two representatives so appointed shall determine the
Market Rent for the Premises for the Renewal Term and each shall submit a copy
of his or her determination of such Market Rent, along with supporting
documentation, to Landlord and Tenant in writing, not less than 150 days prior
to the expiration of the Initial Term. In the event a party fails to designate a
representative at least 210 days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term,
the determination of Market Rent by the representative designated by the other
party shall be binding upon the parties for purposes of this Section 4.3(e). In
the event a representative fails to submit the required written determination of
Market Rent at least 150 days prior to the expiration of the Initial Term, the
determination of the Market Rent by the other representative shall be binding
upon the parties for the purposes of this Section 4.3(e).

             (ii) If the determination of the Market Rent given by the two
representatives so appointed shall differ by less than ten percent (10%) of the
greater of such two representatives' determinations, then the Market Rent shall
be deemed to be the average of such two Market Rent determinations. In the event
such determinations differ by ten percent (10%) or more of the greater of such
two representatives' determinations, then Landlord and Tenant shall attempt to
agree on the Market Rent. If the parties are unable to reach agreement at least
90 days before the expiration of the Initial Term, the two representatives
originally designated shall designate a third representative, who shall meet the
qualifications set forth in Section 4.3(e)(i) and who shall be the arbitrator.
If the two representatives are unable to agree on an arbitrator, then either of
the parties to this Lease, after giving not less than five days' prior notice to
the other party, may apply to the presiding judge of the Multnomah County
Circuit Court for the selection, as soon as is reasonably practicable, of an
arbitrator who meets the foregoing qualifications.

             (iii) The arbitrator shall, by not later than 30 days prior to the
expiration of the Initial Term, select the more reasonable of the two Market
Rent determinations submitted by the first two representatives. The
determination of Market Rent set forth in the written submission selected by the
arbitrator shall be binding upon the parties for purposes of this Section
4.3(e).

             (iv) Landlord and Tenant shall each pay all costs of the
representative selected by it pursuant to Section 4.3(e)(i). Landlord and Tenant
shall share equally the cost of any arbitrator designated pursuant to Section
4.3(e)(ii).

             (v) In the event the Market Rent for the Renewal Term has not been
determined by the arbitrator pursuant to the above procedure as of the
commencement of the Renewal Term, Tenant shall continue to pay monthly
installments of Base Rent based upon the Base Rent in effect as of the
expiration of the Initial Term and, within ten (10) days after the Market Rent
has been determined by the arbitrator, Tenant shall pay to Landlord the
difference between (A) the total amount that should have been paid by Tenant as
Base Rent with respect to the period from the commencement of the Renewal Term
to the date of Tenant's payment (based on the arbitrator's determination), and
(B) the total amount actually paid by Tenant with respect to such period.

         (f) If Tenant extends the Term of this Lease as set forth above, the
"Base Year" for determining Tenant's obligation for the Operating Expense
Increase will be adjusted to the last full calendar year of the Initial Term.

                                 ARTICLE V RENT

     5.1 BASE RENT. The Base Rent ("Base Rent") shall be as set forth in Section
1.1(k). The Base Rent shall be paid in advance on the first day of each and
every month during the Term to Landlord at the address set forth in Section
1.1(c) hereof or at such other place as Landlord may direct in writing, without
any prior notice or demand therefor and without any abatement, deduction, offset
or setoff whatsoever. If the Term commences on any day other than the first day
of a calendar month and/or ends on any day other than the last day of a calendar
month,

                                      -5-
<PAGE>

Base Rent for the fraction(s) of a month at the commencement and/or upon the
expiration of the Term shall be prorated based upon the actual number of days in
such fractional month(s).

     5.2 ADDITIONAL RENT. In addition to Base Rent, Tenant shall pay to Landlord
all sums of money or other charges required to be paid by the Tenant under this
Lease (other than Base Rent), including but not limited to Tenant's Share of
Operating Expense Increase (as defined in Article VI hereof) (all such sums
being herein deemed "Additional Rent"), and whether or not the same are
designated "Additional Rent" the same shall be payable in lawful money of the
United States of America without deduction, set-off or abatement whatsoever. Any
Additional Rent provided for in this Lease shall become due with the next
monthly installment of Base Rent unless otherwise provided. The term "Rent", as
used in this Lease, shall refer collectively to "Base Rent" and "Additional
Rent."

     5.3 LATE PAYMENT. If any payment of Rent is not received by Landlord within
five (5) days after the same is due, Tenant shall pay to Landlord a late payment
charge equal to three percent (3%) of the amount of such delinquent payment of
Rent in addition to the installment of Rent then owing, regardless of whether or
not a notice of default has been given by Landlord. In addition, Tenant shall
pay interest on such late payment and late charge from the due date of the late
payment at an interest rate equal to the higher of: (a) twelve percent (12%) or
(b) the prevailing prime (reference) rate as published by Bank of America (or
any successor bank) at its Seattle main branch office, or any successor rate of
interest, plus three (3) percentage points, but in no event higher than the
maximum rate permitted by applicable law (hereafter the "Default Rate"), until
such amounts are paid. Landlord and Tenant recognize that the damages which
Landlord will suffer as a result of Tenant's failure to timely pay Rent are
difficult or impracticable to ascertain, and agree that said interest and late
charge are a reasonable approximation of the damages which Landlord will suffer
in the event of Tenant' s late payment. This provision shall not relieve Tenant
from payment of Rent at the time and in the manner herein specified. Acceptance
by Landlord of any such interest and late charge shall not constitute a waiver
of Tenant's default with respect to said overdue amount, nor shall it prevent
Landlord from exercising any other rights or remedies available to Landlord.

     5.4 SECURITY DEPOSIT. Intentionally deleted.

                     ARTICLE VI ADDITIONAL RENT AND CHARGES

     6.1 OPERATING EXPENSES. In addition to Base Rent and other sums payable by
Tenant under this Lease, Tenant shall pay to Landlord, as Additional Rent,
Tenant's Share of the Operating Expense Increase (as such term is defined
below). The "Operating Expense Increase" is defined as the amount by which the
Operating Expenses of the Project in each calendar year, beginning with calendar
year 2005, exceed the Operating Expenses of the Project for the Base Year. For
the Initial Term of this Lease, the Base Year is calendar year 2004.

         (a) ESTIMATED EXPENSES.

             (i) Upon the Commencement Date, and thereafter prior to the
commencement of each calendar year occurring wholly or partially within the Term
or as soon as practical thereafter, Landlord shall estimate the annual Operating
Expense Increase payable by Tenant pursuant to this provision, and Tenant shall
pay to Landlord on the first day of each month in advance, one-twelfth (1/12th)
of Tenant's Share of the estimated Operating Expense Increase. Landlord's
estimate will be reasonable and based on standard real estate accounting
practices consistently and fairly applied. If Tenant requests, Landlord will
provide Tenant with reasonably detailed documentation to support Landlord's
estimate. In the event that during any calendar year of the Term, Landlord
reasonably determines that the actual Operating Expense Increase for such year
will exceed the estimated Operating Expense Increase, Landlord may revise such
estimate by written notice to Tenant, and Tenant shall pay to Landlord,
concurrently with the regular monthly rent payment next due following the
receipt of the revised estimate, an amount equal to the difference between the
initial monthly estimate and the revised monthly estimate multiplied by the
number of months expired during such calendar year and shall also pay an amount
equal to the revised monthly estimate for the month of such payment. Subsequent
installments shall be payable concurrently with the regular monthly Base Rent
due for the balance of the calendar year and shall continue until the next
calendar year's estimate is rendered or Landlord next revises its estimate of
the Operating Expense Increase, whichever occurs sooner.

                                      -6-
<PAGE>

             (ii) Within one hundred twenty (120) days following the end of each
year or a reasonable time thereafter, Landlord shall provide Tenant with a
written statement (the "Statement") of the actual total Operating Expenses for
such year, showing in reasonable detail (A) the actual Operating Expenses for
the calendar year, broken down by component expenses, such as repairs,
administration, utilities, janitorial, and Real Property Taxes; (B) the Base
Year Operating Expenses; (C) the Operating Expense Increase for the calendar
year; (D) the amount of Tenant's Share of the Operating Expense Increase; (E)
the amount actually paid by Tenant during the calendar year toward the Operating
Expense Increase; (F) the amount Tenant owes toward the Operating Expense
Increase or the amount Landlord owes as a refund, and (G) the "gross-up"
information required by Section 6.1(a)(iii) of this Lease. If Tenant has
overpaid the amount of the Operating Expense Increase owing pursuant to this
provision, Landlord shall, provided Tenant is not then in default hereunder
beyond any applicable cure period, return to Tenant the amount of such
overpayment within thirty (30) days after Landlord's itemized Statement is
delivered to Tenant. If Tenant has underpaid the amount of the Operating Expense
Increase owing pursuant to this provision, Tenant shall pay the total amount of
such deficiency to Landlord as Additional Rent with the next payment of Base
Rent due under this Lease following delivery of written notice of said
deficiency from Landlord to Tenant.

             (iii) In the event the average occupancy level of the Building or
Project, as the case may be, for any calendar year was or is not one hundred
percent (100%) of full occupancy, then the estimated Operating Expenses and
actual Operating Expenses for such year shall be proportionately adjusted by
Landlord to reflect those costs which would have occurred had the Building
and/or Project, as the case may be, been one hundred percent (100%) occupied
during such year. Such adjustment shall be based on Landlord's reasonable
estimate consistently and fairly applied using standard real estate practices in
the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area.

             (iv) Landlord shall keep its books of account and records
concerning Operating Expenses in compliance with generally accepted standard
real estate practices and retain the same for two (2) years after the calendar
year for which they were prepared. Unless Tenant objects in writing regarding
specific discrepancies in the Operating Expense calculations for any calendar
year within 270 days after receipt of Landlord's final calculations for such
calendar year, Tenant shall be deemed to have approved the same and to have
waived the right to object to such calculations. Tenant, upon at least ten (10)
days' advance written notice to Landlord and during business hours, may examine
any invoices, receipts, canceled checks, vouchers or other records used to
support the figures shown on the Statement, provided, however, that Tenant shall
be entitled to such an examination only once in each calendar year and such
examination shall only be of the Operating Expenses for the calendar year shown
on the Statement. Tenant may only audit a specific calendar year once. Landlord
may condition such review upon Tenant's (and its auditor's) execution of a
reasonable form of confidentiality agreement. Except as provided in Section
6.1(a)(v) below, all costs of the review shall be borne by Tenant. If Tenant
examines or audits Landlord's books and records under Section 6.1(a)(iv) or
Section 6.1(a)(v)more than twice during the Term, Tenant shall reimburse all
costs, fees, and expenses incurred by Landlord and its property manager in
connection with the examination or audit, including, without limitation,
photocopy charges, and administration fees for the time spent in connection with
the audit or examination. All audits and examinations conducted by Tenant shall
be conducted by an independent auditor with at least five years experience with
standard real estate accounting practices in the Portland, Oregon area and such
auditor shall not be compensated on a contingency fee basis.

             (v) Each Statement given by Landlord pursuant to this Section shall
be conclusive and binding upon Tenant unless within 270 days after the receipt
of such Statement Tenant shall notify Landlord that it disputes the correctness
of the Statement, specifying the particular respects in which the Statement is
claimed to be incorrect. If such disputes shall not have been settled by
agreement, Tenant, at Tenant's expense, and after giving Landlord reasonable
advance notice, may cause an examination or audit to be made of Landlord's books
and records relating to such Statement by a certified public accountant, subject
to the limitations set forth in Section 6.1(a)(iv). If the examination or audit
discloses an error in the billings to Tenant, Tenant shall promptly pay the
underpayment. If Landlord does not dispute the results of the audit, Landlord
shall promptly pay to Tenant the overpayment, and if there has been an
overpayment of greater than five percent (5%) of the amount of estimated
Operating Expenses for the year in question, Landlord shall reimburse Tenant for
the reasonable cost of the examination or audit. If Landlord disputes the
results of the audit, Landlord and Tenant shall engage an independent

                                      -7-
<PAGE>

certified public accountant (the "CPA") who shall resolve the dispute by
choosing the results of Tenant's audit or Landlord's position. If the CPA agrees
with Tenant, Landlord shall pay the fees of the CPA. If the CPA agrees with
Landlord, Tenant shall pay the fees of the CPA.

         (b) DEFINED TERMS.

             (i) OPERATING EXPENSES INCLUSIONS. For purposes of this Lease,
"Operating Expenses" means an amount equivalent to the total of all expenses and
costs incurred in connection with the ownership, operation, management,
maintenance, repair and replacement of the Project, the Building and the Common
Areas, including, but in no way limited to, the following:

                 A. The costs of operating, maintaining, repairing and replacing
the Project, the Building and the Common Areas, including but not limited to:
gardening and landscaping; painting; lighting; sanitary control; personal
property taxes; public liability insurance and property damage insurance;
utilities for Common Areas; licenses and fees for Common Area facilities;
sweeping; removal of snow and ice, trash, rubbish, garbage and other refuse;
repairing, restriping and resurfacing of parking area; and maintenance of and
property taxes on personal property, machinery and equipment used in Common Area
maintenance.

                 B. All Real Property Taxes (as defined below) assessed against
the Project, the Building and/or the Common Areas, as applicable, including
land, building(s) (including the Building) and improvements thereon or thereto.

                 C. All premiums for liability, terrorism, fire, extended
coverage and other insurance the Landlord reasonably deems necessary and keeps
in force on or with respect to the Project, the Building of which the Premises
are a part and/or the Common Areas, as the case may be, and commercially
reasonable deductibles payable in connection therewith.

                 D. The cost of operating, maintaining, repairing and replacing
any electrical, mechanical, automatic fire sprinkler and other utilities systems
serving the Premises which serve the Premises in common with the entire
Building.

                 E. The cost of maintenance, repair and replacement of the
structural and non-structural portions of the roof, roof membrane, exterior
walls, foundation, and other exterior portions of the Project and Building, and
reasonable reserves for the same.

                 F. Reasonable property management charges together with the
costs incurred in the operation of a management office relating to the Project,
including, but not limited to the cost of rent and utilities with respect
thereto not to exceed the amount charged by an owner or an independent
management company of comparable quality and experience.

                 G. Annual amortization of capital improvements (x) made
subsequent to the Commencement Date which are designed with a reasonable
probability of improving the operating efficiency of the Project, or some part
thereof, or (y) which are reasonably required under any amendment to any
applicable law, any new law, or any new interpretation (as hereinafter defined)
which amendment, law, or new interpretation is adopted or arose after the
Commencement Date of this Lease, or (z) made subsequent to the Commencement Date
and which are repairs or replacements of initial improvements. For the purposes
of this Lease, a "new interpretation" shall mean any interpretation, enforcement
or application occurring after the Commencement Date of a law enacted prior to
the Commencement Date, which interpretation, enforcement or application imposes
requirements with respect to the Project or Building that were not at the time
of Landlord's execution of this Lease, applicable to the Project or Building.
Annual amortization shall be determined by dividing the applicable capital
expenditure over the useful life of such capital expenditure (as determined by
GAAP) at an interest rate equal to the Prime Rate of Wells Fargo Bank plus two
percent (2%).

                                      -8-
<PAGE>

                 H. Any other costs levied, assessed or imposed by or at the
direction of, or resulting from statutes or regulations or interpretations
thereof promulgated by any federal or governmental authority in connection with
the use or occupancy of the Project.

                 I. Assessments made on or with respect to the Project made
pursuant to any CC&Rs, Local Improvement District conditions and/or owner's
associations affecting the Project, or any portion thereof.

                 J. Compensation (including wages and employer paid benefits and
taxes ) of employees and contractors engaged in the operation and maintenance of
the Project, and/or Building.

             (ii) OPERATING EXPENSE EXCLUSIONS. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Operating Expenses to be reimbursed by Tenant shall not include:

                 A. Expenses which are separately metered or calculated for the
Premises or other leased area of the Project or the Building, as the case may
be, which expenses shall be billed separately to Tenant or such other tenant(s),
as applicable.

                 B. Costs incurred in connection with the initial construction
or design of the Building or to correct defects in the original construction or
design of the Building.

                 C. Depreciation.

                 D. Costs, fines or penalties incurred due to violation by
Landlord of any applicable law.

                 E. Expenses incurred by Landlord in respect of individual
tenants and/or the improvement or renovation of tenants' leasehold improvements,
including leasing commissions, attorneys' fees arising from lease disputes
arising out of a tenant's failure to pay rent under its lease and other specific
costs incurred for the account of, separately billed to and paid by specific
tenants.

                 F. Repairs or replacements to the extent that the cost of the
same is recoverable by the Landlord pursuant to original construction
warranties.

                 G. Interest on debt or capital retirement of debt, and costs of
capital improvements except as expressly provided above.

                 H. Legal fees and disbursements relating to the entity that
owns the Project.

                 I. Costs incurred due to the gross negligence of Landlord or
breach by Landlord of its obligations under any lease.

                 J. Fines or penalties incurred due to violation by Landlord of
any applicable law.

                 K. Costs incurred because Landlord breached the terms of any
lease.

                 L. Overhead and profit paid to subsidiaries or affiliates of
Landlord for management or other services on or to the Project or for supplies
or other materials, to the extent that the costs of the services, supplies or
materials exceed the amount customarily charged by an independent entity for
similar services, supplies or materials of same or better quality.

                                      -9-
<PAGE>

                 M. Compensation paid to clerks, attendants and other persons in
commercial concessions operated by Landlord.

                 N. Advertising and promotional expenditures (except for Project
identification and directional signage).

                 O. Repairs or other work needed because of fire, windstorm or
other casualty or cause insured against by Landlord to the extent Landlord
receives insurance proceeds therefor.

                 P. Costs of sculpture, paintings or other art.

                 Q. Legal fees, costs, and disbursements relating to (i)
disputes with tenants, (ii) enforcing any leases, or (iii) the defense of
Landlord's title to, or interest in, the Buildings or Project.

                 R. Costs incurred due to the intentional misconduct or
intentional breach by Landlord of its obligations under any lease.

                 S. Landlord's general corporate overhead and administrative
expenses.

     Additional Rent payable by Tenant which would not otherwise be due until
after the date of the expiration or earlier termination of the Lease shall, if
the exact amount is uncertain at the time this Lease expires or terminates, be
paid by Tenant to Landlord upon such expiration or termination in an amount to
be reasonably determined by Landlord, with an adjustment to be made once the
exact amount is known.

                 T. Costs of capital improvements and replacements except as
permitted under Section 6.1(b)(i)(G).

             (iii) TENANT'S SHARE. For purposes of this Lease, "Tenant 's Share"
means the percentage, as set forth in Section 1.1(o) or Section 1.1(p), as
appropriate, and obtained by dividing the rentable area of the Premises by the
aggregate rentable area of all premises available for lease, whether leased or
not, in the Building or the Project, as applicable with respect to any specific
Operating Expense, subject to adjustment in the event of changes in rentable
area of the Project, Building and/or Premises. Notwithstanding the above,
Landlord shall have the right, but not the obligation, to equitably adjust
Tenant's Share of any specific Operating Expense so as to render such expense
payable proportionately by those tenants benefited by the same or otherwise in
order to appropriately allocate such Operating Expense to cover the area covered
by such Operating Expense.

             (iv) REAL PROPERTY TAXES. For purposes of this Lease, "Real
Property Taxes" shall consist of all real estate taxes and all other taxes
relating to the Building, the Project, the Common Areas and/or the Project, as
applicable, all other taxes which may be levied in lieu of real estate taxes,
all assessments, local improvement districts, assessment bonds, levies, fees and
other governmental charges, including, but not limited to, charges for traffic
facilities and improvements, water service studies, and improvements or amounts
necessary to be expended because of governmental orders, whether general or
special, ordinary or extraordinary, unforeseen as well as foreseen, of any kind
and nature for public improvements, services, benefits, or any other purpose,
which are assessed, levied, confirmed, imposed or become a lien upon the
Building or any portion of the Project, and/or the Common Areas, or become
payable during the Term (or which become payable after the expiration or earlier
termination hereof and are attributable in whole or in part to any period during
the Term hereof), together with all costs and expenses incurred by Landlord in
successfully contesting, resisting or appealing any such taxes, rates, duties,
levies or assessments. Any special assessments which may be paid in installments
shall be deemed paid over the longest period allowable by law and only the
installment due in any calendar year shall be included in Real Property Taxes.
"Real Property Taxes" shall exclude any franchise, estate, inheritance or
succession transfer tax of Landlord, or any federal or state income, profits or
revenue tax or charge upon the net income of Landlord from all sources;
provided, however, that if at any time during the Term there is levied or
assessed against Landlord a federal, state or local tax or excise tax on rent,
or any other tax however described on account of rent or gross

                                      -10-
<PAGE>

receipts or any portion thereof, Tenant shall pay one hundred percent (100%) of
the Tenant's Share of any said tax or excise applicable to Tenant's Rent as
Additional Rent.

         (c) POLICY STATEMENT. The purpose of this Section 6.1 is to fairly
reimburse Landlord for the increased costs of those Operating Expenses for
operating, maintaining, repairing, and managing the Buildings which benefit all
of the Buildings' tenants. The reimbursement is not intended to provide an
additional source of profit to Landlord. Accordingly, the purpose described
above and the following principles are a statement of the parties' intent
regarding Section 6.1:

             (i) Landlord will operate, maintain, repair, and manage the
Building in a manner of at least the quality as other comparable buildings in
Portland, Oregon.

             (ii) Landlord shall perform its obligation set forth in Section 6.1
in a cost-effective manner.

             (iii) The Operating Expenses shall be fairly and accurately
calculated by Landlord.

             (iv) Examples of fair calculations include the exclusions in
Section 6.1(b)(ii), and not charging for the same service in two different
categories (such as an in-house manager and a management fee).

     6.2 ADJUSTMENTS.

         (a) CREDITS/REIMBURSEMENTS. Operating Expenses shall be reduced by
reimbursements, credits, discounts, reductions, or other allowances received by
Landlord for items of cost included in Operating Expenses.

         (b) TAX REFUND. If Landlord receives a refund of any portion of Real
Property Taxes that were included in the Operating Expenses actually paid by
Tenant as an increase over the Real Property taxes for the Base Year, then
Landlord shall reimburse Tenant Tenant's Share of the refunded taxes to the
extent actually paid by Tenant, less any expenses that Landlord reasonably
incurred to obtain the refund.

         (c) PRORATIONS. If this Lease (or an extended term hereof) begins or
ends on a day other than the last day of a calendar year, Tenant's obligation to
pay Tenant's Share of the Operating Expense Increase for that calendar year
shall be prorated by multiplying Tenant's Share of that Operating Expense
Increase by a fraction expressed as a percentage, the numerator of which is the
number of days of the calendar year included within the Term of this Lease and
the denominator of which is 365.

     6.3 TENANT'S PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES. Tenant shall pay or cause to be paid,
prior to delinquency, any and all taxes and assessments levied upon all trade
fixtures, inventories and other real or personal property placed or installed in
and upon the Premises by Tenant. If any such taxes on Tenant's personal property
or trade fixtures are levied against Landlord or Landlord's property or if the
assessed value of the Building is increased by the inclusion therein of a value
placed upon such real or personal property or trade fixtures of Tenant, and if
Landlord pays the taxes based upon such increased assessment, Tenant shall, upon
demand, repay to Landlord the taxes so levied or the portion of such taxes
resulting from such increase in the assessment.

                             ARTICLE VII INSURANCE

     7.1 LANDLORD'S INSURANCE. During the Term, Landlord shall procure and
maintain in full force and effect with respect to the Building (i) a policy or
policies of standard "all-risk" fire insurance with extended coverage against
damage and destruction by fire, vandalism, and all other "all risk" perils. The
amount of such insurance shall be equal to the full replacement value of the
Building, as the value may exist from time to time (including, to the extent
required, sprinkler leakage, vandalism and malicious mischief coverage, and any
other endorsements required by the holder of any fee or leasehold mortgage and
earthquake, flood and terrorism insurance to the extent Landlord reasonably
deems prudent and/or to the extent required by any mortgagee); and (ii) a policy
of commercial

                                      -11-
<PAGE>

general liability insurance, in the form and content acceptable to Landlord,
insuring Landlord's activities with respect to the Premises, the Common Areas
and the Project for loss, damage or liability for personal injury or death of
any person or loss or damage to property occurring in, upon or about the
Premises, Common Areas or Project. If the annual premiums charged Landlord for
such casualty and/or liability insurance exceed the standard premium rates
because the nature of Tenant's operations results in increased exposure, then
Tenant shall, upon receipt of appropriate premium invoices, reimburse Landlord
for such increased amount. Landlord shall have the right, at its option, to keep
and maintain in full force and effect during the Term such other insurance in
such amounts and on such terms as Landlord and/or any mortgagees or the
beneficiary of any first trust deed against the Building, or the portion of the
Project, may reasonably require from time to time in form, in amounts and for
insurance risks against which a prudent Landlord would protect itself, including
but not limited to rental abatement, rental interruption, earthquake, flood and
terrorism insurance.

     7.2 TENANT'S PUBLIC LIABILITY. Tenant shall, at its own cost and expense,
keep and maintain in full force during the Term and any other period of
occupancy of the Premises by Tenant, a policy or policies of commercial general
liability insurance, written by a reputable insurance company authorized to do
business in the State of Oregon in form and content reasonably acceptable to
Landlord insuring Tenant's activities with respect to the Premises, the Common
Areas and the Project for loss, damage or liability for personal injury or death
of any person or loss or damage to property occurring in, upon or about the
Premises in an amount of not less than Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000)
combined single limit or such larger amounts as may hereafter be reasonably
requested by Landlord. The policy shall insure the hazards of the Premises and
Tenant's operations therein, shall include independent contractor and
contractual liability coverage (covering the indemnity contained in Section 7.8
hereof) and shall (a) name Landlord, Landlord's managing agent and the
Landlord's mortgagee under a mortgage or beneficiary under a deed of trust
either having a lien against the Building or Project (the "Lender") as an
additional insured; (b) contain a cross-liability provision and; (c) contain a
provision that the insurance provided hereunder shall be primary and
non-contributing with any other insurance available to Landlord.

     7.3 TENANT'S PROPERTY AND OTHER INSURANCE. Tenant shall, at its own cost
and expense, keep and maintain in full force during the Term and any other
period of occupancy of the Premises, a policy or policies of standard form
property insurance insuring against the perils of fire, extended coverage,
vandalism, malicious mischief, special extended coverage and sprinkler leakage.
This insurance policy shall be upon all property owned by Tenant, for which
Tenant is legally liable or that was installed at Tenant's expense, and which is
located in the Premises, including without limitation, furniture, fittings,
installations, cabling, fixtures (other than the improvements installed by
Landlord), and any other personal property, in the amount of not less than one
hundred percent (100%) of the full replacement costs thereof.

     7.4 FORM OF INSURANCE/CERTIFICATES.

All policies shall be written in a form satisfactory to Landlord and shall be
taken out with insurance companies licensed in the state in which the Building
is located and holding a General Policy Holder' s Rating of "A" and a financial
rating of "X" or better, as set forth in the most current issues of Best's
Insurance Guide. Each party shall furnish to the other, prior to the
Commencement Date and thereafter within ten (10) days prior to the expiration of
each such policy, a certificate of insurance (or renewal thereof) issued by the
insurance carrier of each policy of insurance carried by the party pursuant
hereto and, upon request by the other party, a copy of each such policy of
insurance. Said certificates shall expressly provide that such policies shall
not be cancelable or subject to reduction of coverage below the minimum amounts
required by this Lease or required by any lender having an interest in the
Building or otherwise be subject to modification except after thirty (30) days
prior written notice to the parties named as insured in Section 7.2.

     7.5 TENANT'S FAILURE. If Tenant fails to maintain any insurance required in
the Lease, Tenant shall be liable for any loss or cost resulting from said
failure, and Landlord shall have the right to obtain such insurance on Tenant's
behalf and at Tenant's sole expense. This Section 7.5 shall not be deemed to be
a waiver of any of Landlord's rights and remedies under any other section of
this Lease. If Landlord obtains any insurance which is the responsibility of
Tenant to obtain under this Article VII, Landlord shall deliver to Tenant a
written statement setting forth the cost of any such insurance and showing in
reasonable detail the manner in which it has been computed and Tenant shall
promptly remit said amount as Additional Rent to Landlord.

                                      -12-
<PAGE>

     7.6 WAIVER OF SUBROGATION. Any all risk policy or policies of fire,
extended coverage or similar casualty insurance which either party obtains in
connection with the Building, the Premises or Tenant's personal property therein
shall include a clause or endorsement denying the insurer any rights of
subrogation against the other party to the extent rights have been waived by the
insured prior to the occurrence of injury or loss. Landlord and Tenant waive any
rights of recovery against the other for liability, injury or loss due to
hazards covered by insurance containing such a waiver of subrogation clause or
endorsement to the extent of the liability, injury or loss covered thereby.

     7.7 TENANT'S PROPERTIES AND FIXTURES. Tenant assumes the risk of damage to
any furniture, equipment, machinery, goods, supplies or fixtures which are or
remain the property of Tenant or as to which Tenant retains the right of removal
from the Premises, except to the extent due to the gross negligence or willful
misconduct of Landlord. Tenant shall not do or keep anything in or about the
Premises (except those things Tenant presently does and keeps in connection with
the uses set forth in Section 10.1) which will in any way tend to increase
insurance rates paid by Landlord and maintained with respect to the Premises
and/or the Project unless Tenant pays directly to Landlord the increase cost of
the premiums. In no event shall Tenant carry on any activities which would
invalidate any insurance coverage maintained by Landlord. If at any time
Tenant's occupancy or business in, or on, the Premises, whether or not Landlord
has consented to the same, results in any increase in premiums for the insurance
carried by Landlord with respect to the Building and/or the Project, Tenant
shall pay any such increase in premiums as Additional Rent within ten (10) days
after being billed therefore by Landlord. In determining whether increased
premiums are a result of Tenant's use of the Building, a schedule issued by the
organization computing the insurance rate on the Building and/or the Project
showing the various components of such rate shall be conclusive evidence of the
several items and charges which make up such rate. Tenant shall promptly comply
with all reasonable requirements of the insurance underwriters and/or any
governmental authority having jurisdiction thereover, necessary for the
maintenance of reasonable fire and extended insurance for the Building and/or
the Project.

     7.8 INDEMNIFICATION.

             (a) Tenant, as a material part of the consideration to be rendered
to Landlord, hereby indemnifies and agrees to defend and hold Landlord,
Landlord's managing agent and Lender, the Premises, and the Project harmless
for, from and against (i) any and all liability, penalties, losses, damages,
costs and expenses, demands, causes of action, claims, judgments or appeals
arising from any injury to any person or persons or any damage to any property
to the extent as a result of Tenant's or Tenants' officers, employees, agents,
assignees, subtenants, concessionaires, licensees, contractors or invitees' use,
maintenance, occupation, operation or control of the Premises during the Term,
or resulting from any breach or default in the performance of any obligation to
be performed by Tenant hereunder or for which Tenant is responsible under the
terms of this Lease or pursuant to any governmental or insurance requirement, or
to the extent arising from any act, neglect, fault or omission of Tenant or any
of Tenant's officers, employees, agents, servants, subtenants, concessionaires,
licensees, contractors or invitees, and (ii) from and against all reasonable
legal costs and charges, including reasonable attorneys' and other reasonable
professional fees, incurred in and about any of such matters and the defense of
any action arising out of the same or in discharging the Project and/or Premises
or any part thereof from any and all liens, charges or judgments which may
accrue or be placed thereon by reason of any act or omission of the Tenant,
except and to the extent as may arise out of the negligence or willful
misconduct of Landlord and/or its agents, officers, employees, contractors or
invitees.

             (b) Landlord, as a material part of the consideration to be
rendered to Tenant, hereby indemnifies and agrees to defend and hold Tenant and
the Premises harmless from and against (i) any and all liability, penalties,
losses, damages, costs and expenses, demands, causes of action, claims,
judgments or appeals arising from any injury to any person or persons or any
damage to any property to the extent as a result of Landlord's or Landlord's
employees, agents, or contractors, gross negligence or willful misconduct, or
resulting from any breach or default in the performance of any obligation to be
performed by Landlord hereunder or for which Landlord is responsible under the
terms of the Lease or pursuant to any governmental or insurance requirement, and
(ii) from and against all reasonable legal costs and charges, including
reasonable attorneys' and other reasonable professional fees, incurred in and
about any of such matters and the defense of any action arising out of the same
or in discharging Tenant and/or Premises or any part thereof from any and all
liens, charges or judgments which may

                                      -13-
<PAGE>

accrue or be placed thereon by reason of any act or omission of the Landlord,
except and to the extent as may arise out of the negligence or willful
misconduct of Tenant and/or its officers, agents, employees, assignees,
subtenants, concessionaires, licensees, contractors, or invitees.

             (c) In no event shall Landlord, its agents, employees and/or
contractors be liable for any personal injury or death or property damage caused
by other lessees or persons in or about the Premises, the Project and/or the
Building, as the case may be, or caused by public or quasi-public work, or for
consequential damages arising out of any loss of the use of the Premises or any
equipment or facilities therein by Tenant or any person claiming through or
under Tenant.

     7.9 DAMAGE TO TENANT'S PROPERTY. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
7.8 to the contrary, except to the extent due to the gross negligence or willful
misconduct of Landlord, Landlord, its agents, employees and/or contractors shall
not be liable for (i) any damage to property entrusted to employees or security
officers of the Project or the Building, (ii) loss or damage to any property by
theft or otherwise, or (iii) any injury or damage to persons or property
resulting from fire, explosion, falling substances or materials, steam, gas,
electricity, water or rain which may leak from any part of the Building, the
Common Areas, or the Project or from the pipes, appliances or plumbing work
therein or from the roof, street, or subsurface or from any other place or
resulting from dampness or any other cause, except to the extent Landlord
receives consideration for such damage or injury from a third party. Neither
Landlord nor its agents, employees or contractors shall be liable for
interference with light. Tenant shall give prompt notice to Landlord and
appropriate emergency response officials if Tenant is or becomes aware of fire
or accidents in the Building, the Common Areas or any other portion of the
Project or of defects therein in the fixtures or equipment.

                      ARTICLE VIII REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE

     8.1 LANDLORD REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE. Subject to Landlord's right to
reimbursement from Tenant pursuant to Sections 6.1 and 8.3, Landlord shall at
its expense maintain in good condition and repair the Building including without
limitation the foundation, roof and membrane and shall maintain in good
condition the exterior of the Building, utilities, the Building systems
(including HVAC, plumbing, electrical, and mechanical), common area doors,
windows, and walls, and light fixtures, and the Common Areas of the Project.
Landlord shall not be liable for any failure to make any repairs or to perform
any maintenance unless such failure shall persist for an unreasonable time after
written notice of the need for such repairs or maintenance is given to Landlord
by Tenant. There shall be no abatement of Rent and, except for the gross
negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord or its employees, no liability of
Landlord by reason of any injury to or interference with Tenant's business
arising from the making of any repairs, alterations or improvement in or to any
portion of the Premises or in or to fixtures, appurtenances and equipment
therein; provided, that Landlord, its employees, agents and contractors use
reasonable efforts not to unreasonably interfere with Tenant's business in
exercise of Landlord's rights or obligations hereunder. Except as may otherwise
be expressly set forth herein, Tenant affirms that (a) neither Landlord nor any
agent, employee or officer of Landlord has made any representation regarding the
condition of the Premises, the Building, the Common Areas or the Project, and
(b) Landlord shall not be obligated to undertake any repair, alteration,
remodel, improvement, painting or decorating.

     8.2 UTILITIES AND SERVICES. Subject to reimbursement pursuant to Sections
6.1 and 8.3, Landlord shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Premises
water, natural gas for hot water, electricity, sewage, heating, ventilating, air
conditioning services, and janitorial services of the quality provided to office
buildings of similar quality, style, and age in the Portland metropolitan area.
Tenant shall pay before delinquency, at its sole cost and expense, all charges
for water, heat, electricity, power, telephone service, sewer service charges
and other utilities or services charged or attributable directly to the
Premises; provided, however, that if any such services or utilities shall be
billed to Landlord and are not separately billed to the Premises, Tenant shall
pay to Landlord as Additional Rent, an amount equal to that proportion of the
total charges therefor which the rentable area of the Premises bears to the
rentable area of leased area covered by such charges. Notwithstanding the above,
in the event Tenant uses any heating, ventilating and air conditioning services
during non-standard building hours, or if Tenant uses any utility services
beyond standard office usage as reasonably determined by Landlord, Tenant shall
pay the actual cost of such after-hours services or above-standard services, as
the case may be, used by Tenant based on Landlord's reasonable estimate
therefor. At Landlord's option, Landlord may install separate meters to measure
above-standard

                                      -14-
<PAGE>

consumption of services. Tenant shall reimburse the costs of the purchase and
installation of such meters within 15 days after Landlord's billing therefor.

     8.3 TENANT REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE. Tenant shall, at its expense, (a) keep
the Premises and fixtures in good order, and keep Tenant's personal property in
good order and repair; and (b) make repairs and replacements to the Premises and
pay Landlord for the repairs or replacements to the Buildings if any such
repairs or replacements are needed because of Tenant's misuse or primary
negligence, except to the extent that a claim for such repairs or replacements
is waived under Section 7.6. Upon expiration or earlier termination of the Term,
Tenant shall surrender the Premises to Landlord in the same condition as when
leased except for (i) ordinary wear and tear, (ii) damage by the elements, fire,
or other casualty not required to be repaired, replaced or paid for by Tenant
pursuant to this Lease, (iii) condemnation, and (iv) alterations as permitted
under this Lease unless consent was conditioned on their removal.

     8.4 NON-LIABILITY OF LANDLORD. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above or elsewhere in this Lease, but except as
expressly provided below. Landlord shall not be in default hereunder or be
liable for any damages directly or indirectly resulting from, nor shall the Rent
herein reserved be abated or rebated by reason of (a) the interruption or
curtailment of the use of the Premises as a result of the installation of any
equipment in connection with the Building or Project; or (b) any failure to
furnish or delay in furnishing any services required to be provided by Landlord,
unless and to the extent such failure or delay is caused by any condition
created by Landlord's active gross negligence; or (c) the limitation,
curtailment, rationing or restriction of the use of water or electricity, gas or
any other form of energy or any other service or utility whatsoever serving the
Premises or Project. However, if, as a result of Landlord's act or omission,
Landlord causes one of the events described in clause (a), (b), or (c) of this
paragraph, and as a result of such event, the Premises are rendered unsuitable
for Tenant's use and Tenant, in fact, does not occupy the Premises for its
business operations for seven consecutive days, Base Rent shall abate beginning
on the eighth consecutive day and continuing until such time as the Premises are
again rendered suitable for Tenant's use.

     8.5 INSPECTION OF PREMISES. Landlord may enter the Premises to complete
construction undertaken by Landlord on the Premises, to inspect, clean, improve
or repair the same, to inspect the performance by Tenant of the terms and
conditions hereof, show the Premises to prospective purchasers, tenants and
lenders and for all other purposes as Landlord shall reasonably deem necessary
or appropriate; provided, that Landlord shall use reasonable efforts not to
interfere with Tenant's business in exercise of Landlord's rights hereunder.
Tenant hereby waives any claim for damages for any injury or inconvenience to or
interference with Tenant's business, any loss of occupancy or quiet enjoyment of
the Premises and any other loss in, upon or about the Premises, arising from
exercise by Landlord of its rights hereunder except as otherwise provided in
Article XI hereof.

     8.6 ACCESS BY TENANT. Tenant and its employees, agents, and invitees shall
have access to the Premises 24 hours a day, seven days a week, subject to
restrictions due to governmental regulation, casualty, and weather.

             ARTICLE IX FIXTURES, PERSONAL PROPERTY AND ALTERATIONS

     9.1 FIXTURES AND PERSONAL PROPERTY. Tenant, at Tenant's expense, may
install any necessary trade fixtures, equipment and furniture in the Premises,
provided that such items are installed and are removable without damage to the
structure of the Premises , including, but not limited to, damage to drywall,
doors, door frames and floors. Landlord reserves the right to approve or
disapprove of any interior improvements which are visible from outside the
Premises or which violate the CC&R's on wholly aesthetic grounds, but such
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Such
improvements must be submitted for Landlord's written approval prior to
installation, or Landlord may remove or replace such items at Tenant's sole
expense. Said trade fixtures, equipment, furniture and personal property shall
remain Tenant's property and shall be removed by Tenant upon the expiration or
earlier termination of the Lease. As a covenant which shall survive the
expiration or earlier termination of the Lease, Tenant shall repair, at Tenant's
sole expense, or at Landlord's election, reimburse Landlord for the cost to
repair all damage caused by the installation or removal of said trade fixtures,
equipment, furniture, personal property or temporary improvements. If Tenant
fails to remove the foregoing items prior to or upon the expiration or earlier
termination of this Lease, Landlord, at its option and without liability to
Tenant for loss thereof, may keep and use them or remove any or all of them and
cause them to be stored or sold in accordance

                                      -15-
<PAGE>

with applicable law, and Tenant shall, upon demand of Landlord, pay to Landlord
as Additional Rent hereunder all costs and expenses incurred by Landlord in so
storing and/or selling said items. In the event any such fixtures, equipment,
and/or furniture of Tenant are sold by Landlord, the proceeds of such sale shall
be applied, first, to all expenses of Landlord incurred in connection with
storage and sale; second, to any amounts owed by Tenant to Landlord under this
Lease or otherwise, and, third, the remainder, if any, shall be paid to Tenant.

     9.2 ALTERATIONS. Tenant shall not make or allow to be made any material
alterations, additions or improvements to the Premises (defined as alterations,
additions or improvements costing in excess of $1,000.00 individually or in the
aggregate with respect to separate items relating to the same improvement or
alteration or any alterations, additions or improvements that affect the
structure or exterior of the Building or any building, mechanical, electrical or
life safety system), either at the inception of the Lease or subsequently during
the Term, without obtaining the prior written consent of Landlord which consent
may be withheld in Landlord's sole discretion with respect to any alteration,
addition or improvement that affects the structure or exterior of the Building
or any building, mechanical, electrical or life safety systems. Tenant shall
deliver to Landlord the contractor's name, references and state license number,
a certificate of liability insurance naming Landlord and Landlord' s manager and
lender(s) as an additional insured, as well as full and complete plans and
specifications of all such alterations, additions or improvements, and any
subsequent modifications or additions to such plans and specifications, and no
proposed work shall be commenced or continued by Tenant until Landlord has
received and given its written approval of each of the foregoing. Landlord shall
either approve or disapprove any proposed alteration, addition or improvement on
or before fifteen (15) days following receipt of all of the foregoing items.
Landlord does not expressly or implicitly covenant or warrant that any plans or
specifications submitted by Tenant are accurate, safe or sufficient or that the
same comply with any applicable laws, ordinances, building codes, or the like.
Further, Tenant shall indemnify, protect, defend and hold Landlord and
Landlord's agents, employees and contractors harmless for, from and against any
loss, damage, liability, claims, cost or expense, including attorneys' fees and
costs, incurred as a result of any defects in design, materials or workmanship
resulting from Tenant's alterations, additions or improvements to the Premises.
All alterations, telephone or telecommunications lines, cables, conduits and
equipment and all other additions or improvements to the Premises made by Tenant
shall remain the property of Tenant until termination of this Lease, at which
time they shall, unless otherwise elected by Landlord by written notice to
Tenant, be and become the property of Landlord. Landlord may, as a condition to
approval of any such alterations, additions or improvements, require Tenant to
remove any partitions, counters, railings, telephone and telecommunications
lines, cables, conduits and equipment and/or other improvements installed by
Tenant during the Term, and Tenant shall repair all damage resulting from such
removal or, at Landlord's option, shall pay to Landlord all costs arising from
such removal. All repairs, alterations, additions and restorations by Tenant
hereinafter required or permitted shall be done in a good and workmanlike manner
and in compliance with the plans and specifications approved by Landlord and in
compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances, building codes, bylaws,
regulations and orders of any federal, state, county, municipal or other public
authority and of the insurers of the Premises and as-built plans and
specifications shall be provided to Landlord by Tenant upon completion of the
work. If required by Landlord, and only if Tenant is not Schnitzer Steel
Industries, Inc., Tenant shall secure at Tenant's own cost and expense a
completion and lien indemnity bond or other adequate security, including without
limitation an indemnity agreement from Tenant's parent in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to Landlord. Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for
Landlord's reasonable out-of-pocket costs (including any professional fees
incurred by Landlord and a reasonable administrative fee payable to Landlord's
manager) for reviewing and approving or disapproving plans and specifications
for any proposed alterations and observing the alterations.

     9.3 LIENS. Tenant shall promptly file and/or record, as applicable, all
notices of completion provided for by law, and shall pay and discharge all
claims for work or labor done, supplies furnished or services rendered at the
request of Tenant or at the request of Landlord on behalf of Tenant, and shall
keep the Premises and the Project free and clear of all mechanics' and
materialmen's liens in connection therewith. Landlord shall have the right, and
shall be given ten (10) business days written notice by Tenant prior to
commencement of the work, to post or keep posted on the Premises, or in the
immediate vicinity thereof, any notices of non-responsibility for any
construction, alteration, or repair of the Premises by Tenant. If any such lien
is filed, Tenant shall cause same to be discharged of record within ten (10)
days following written notice thereof, or if Tenant disputes the correctness or
validity of any claim of lien, Landlord may, in its reasonable discretion,
permit Tenant to post or provide security in a form and amount acceptable to
Landlord to insure that title to the Project remains free from the lien claimed.
If said lien is not timely discharged Landlord may, but shall not be required
to, take such action or pay such amount as may be necessary to remove such lien
and Tenant shall pay to Landlord as Additional Rent any such amounts expended by

                                      -16-
<PAGE>

Landlord, together with interest thereon at the Default Rate (as defined in
Section 5.3 hereof), within five (5) days after notice is received from Landlord
of the amount expended by Landlord.

                     ARTICLE X USE AND COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS

     10.1 GENERAL USE AND COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS. Tenant shall use the Premises
only for Tenant's business described in Section 1.1(f) above, and uses
customarily incidental thereto and for no other use without the prior written
consent of Landlord which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld,
conditioned or delayed. Tenant shall, at Tenant's sole cost and expense, comply
with applicable requirements of municipal, county, state, federal and other
applicable governmental authorities now or hereafter in force pertaining to
Tenant's business operations, alterations and/or specific use of the Premises
and/or the Project, and shall secure any necessary permits therefore and shall
faithfully observe in the use of the Premises and the Project, applicable
municipal, county, state, federal and other applicable governmental entities'
requirements which are now or which may hereafter be in force. Tenant, in
Tenant's use and occupancy of the Premises, shall not subject or permit the
Premises and/or the Project to be used in any manner which would tend to damage
any portion thereof, or which would increase the cost of any insurance paid by
Landlord with respect thereto. Tenant shall not do or permit anything to be done
in or about the Premises, the Common Areas and/or the Project which will in any
way obstruct or interfere with the rights of other tenants or occupants of the
Common Areas and/or the Project or use or allow the Premises or any portion of
the Project to be used for any improper, immoral, unlawful or objectionable
purpose, nor shall Tenant cause, maintain or permit a nuisance in, on or about
the Premises, the Common Areas and/or the Project. Tenant shall comply with all
covenants and obligations in the CC&R's which affect the use and operation of
the Premises, the Common Areas and/or the Project.

     10.2 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.

         (a) DEFINED TERMS.

             (i) "HAZARDOUS MATERIALS" means, among other things, any of the
following, in any amount: (a) any petroleum or petroleum derived or derivative
product, asbestos in any form, urea formaldehyde and polychlorinated biphenyls
and medical wastes; (b) any radioactive substance; (c) any toxic, infectious,
reactive, corrosive, ignitable or flammable chemical or chemical compound; and
(d) any chemicals, materials or substances, whether solid, liquid or gas,
defined as or included in the definitions of "hazardous substances," "hazardous
wastes," "hazardous materials," "extremely hazardous wastes," "restricted
hazardous wastes," "toxic substances," "toxic pollutants," "solid waste," or
words of similar import in any federal, state or local statute, law, ordinance
or regulation or court decisions now existing or hereafter existing as the same
may be interpreted by government offices and agencies.

             (ii) "HAZARDOUS MATERIALS LAWS" means any federal, state or local
statutes, laws, ordinances or regulations or court decisions now existing or
hereafter existing that control, classify, regulate, list or define Hazardous
Materials or require remediation of Hazardous Materials contamination.

         (b) COMPLIANCE WITH HAZARDOUS MATERIALS LAWS. Tenant will not cause any
Hazardous Material to be brought upon, kept, generated or used on the Project in
a manner or for a purpose prohibited by or that could result in liability under
any Hazardous Materials Law; provided, however, in no event shall Tenant allow
any Hazardous Material to be brought upon, kept, generated or used on the
Project other than those Hazardous Materials for which Tenant has received
Landlord's prior written consent (other than small quantities of cleaning or
other/industrial supplies as are customarily used by a tenant in the ordinary
course in a general office facility). Tenant, at its sole cost and expense, will
comply with (and obtain all permits required under) all Hazardous Materials
Laws, groundwater wellhead protection laws, storm water management laws, fire
protection provisions, and prudent industry practice relating to the presence,
storage, transportation, disposal, release or management of Hazardous Materials
in, on, under or about the Project that Tenant brings upon, keeps, generates or
uses on the Project (including, without limitation, but subject to this Section
10.2, immediate remediation of any Hazardous Materials in, on, under or about
the Project that Tenant brings upon, keeps, generates or uses on the Project in
compliance with Hazardous Materials Laws) and in no event shall Tenant allow any
liens or encumbrances

                                      -17-
<PAGE>

pertaining to Tenant's use of Hazardous Materials to attach to any portion of
the Project. On or before the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease,
Tenant, at its sole cost and expense, will completely remove from the Project
(regardless whether any Hazardous Materials Law requires removal), in compliance
with all Hazardous Materials Laws, all Hazardous Materials Tenant causes to be
present in, on, under or about the Project. Tenant will not take any remedial
action in response to the presence of any Hazardous Materials in on, under or
about the Project, nor enter into (or commence negotiations with respect to) any
settlement agreement, consent decree or other compromise with respect to any
claims relating to or in any way connected with Hazardous Materials in, on,
under or about the Project, without first notifying Landlord of Tenant's
intention to do so and affording Landlord reasonable opportunity to investigate,
appear, intervene and otherwise assert and protect Landlord's interest in the
Project. Landlord shall have the right from time to time to inspect the Premises
to determine if Tenant is in compliance with this Section 10.2.

         (c) NOTICE OF ACTIONS. Tenant will notify Landlord of any of the
following actions affecting Landlord, Tenant or the Project that result from or
in any way relate to Tenant's use of the Project immediately after receiving
notice of the same: (a) any enforcement, clean-up, removal or other governmental
or regulatory action instituted, completed or threatened under any Hazardous
Materials Law; (b) any claim made or threatened by any person relating to
damage, contribution, liability, cost recovery, compensation, loss or injury
resulting from or claimed to result from any Hazardous Material; and (c) any
reports made by any person, including Tenant, to any environmental agency
relating to any Hazardous Material, including any complaints, notices, warnings
or asserted violations. Tenant will also deliver to Landlord, as promptly as
possible and in any event within five (5) business days after Tenant first
receives or sends the same, copies of all claims, reports, complaints, notices,
warnings or asserted violations relating in any way to the Project or Tenant's
use of the Project. Upon Landlord's written request, Tenant will promptly
deliver to Landlord documentation acceptable to Landlord reflecting the legal
and proper disposal of all Hazardous Materials removed or to be removed from the
Premises. All such documentation will list Tenant or its agent as a responsible
party and the generator of such Hazardous Materials and will not attribute
responsibility for any such Hazardous Materials to Landlord or Landlord's
property manager.

         (d) DISCLOSURE AND WARNING OBLIGATIONS. Tenant acknowledges and agrees
that all reporting and warning obligations required under Hazardous Materials
Laws resulting from or in any way relating to Tenant's use of the Premises or
Project are Tenant's sole responsibility, regardless whether the Hazardous
Materials Laws permit or require Landlord to report or warn.

         (e) INDEMNIFICATION. Tenant releases and will indemnify, defend (with
counsel reasonably acceptable to Landlord), protect and hold harmless the
Landlord and Landlord's agents, employees and contractors for, from and against
any and all claims, liabilities, damages, losses, costs and expenses whatsoever
arising or resulting, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, from the
presence, treatment, storage, transportation, disposal, release or management of
Hazardous Materials in, on, under, upon or from the Project (including water
tables and atmosphere) that Tenant brings upon, keeps, generates or uses on the
Premises or the Project. Tenant's obligations under this Section include,
without limitation and whether foreseeable or unforeseeable, (a) the costs of
any required or necessary repair, clean-up, detoxification or decontamination of
the Project; (b) the costs of implementing any closure, remediation or other
required action in connection therewith as stated above; (c) the value of any
loss of use and any diminution in value of the Project, and (d) consultants '
fees, experts' fees and response costs. The Tenant's obligations under this
section survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. Landlord
releases and will indemnify, defend (with counsel reasonably acceptable to
Tenant), protect and hold harmless the Tenant and Tenant's agents, employees and
contractors for, from and against any and all claims, liabilities, damages,
losses, costs and expenses whatsoever arising or resulting, in whole or in part,
directly or indirectly, from the presence, treatment, storage, transportation,
disposal, release or management of Hazardous Materials in, on, under, upon or
from the Project (including water tables and atmosphere) that Landlord brings
upon, keeps, generates or uses on the Premises or the Project. Landlord's
obligations under this Section include, without limitation and whether
foreseeable or unforeseeable, (a) the costs of any required or necessary repair,
clean-up, detoxification or decontamination of the Project; (b) the costs of
implementing any closure, remediation or other required action in connection
therewith as stated above; (c) the value of any loss of use and any diminution
in value of the Project, and (d) consultants ' fees, experts' fees and response
costs. The Landlord's obligations under this section survive the expiration or
earlier termination of this Lease.

                                      -18-
<PAGE>

         (f) HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REPRESENTATION BY LANDLORD. Landlord represents
to Tenant that, to its actual knowledge and except as Landlord has previously
disclosed to Tenant, Landlord has not caused the generation, storage or release
of Hazardous Materials upon the Premises, except in accordance with Hazardous
Materials Laws and prudent industry practices regarding construction of the
Premises.

     10.3 SIGNS. The Tenant shall not paint, display, inscribe, place or affix
any sign, picture, advertisement, notice, lettering, or direction on any part of
the outside of the Building or the Project or visible from the outside of the
Premises, the Building or the Project, except as first approved by Landlord or
as may be set forth in the Tenant Improvement Plans. Landlord's approval of any
proposed sign, picture, advertisement, notice, lettering, or direction shall not
be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed.

                       ARTICLE XI DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION

     11.1 RECONSTRUCTION. If the "Relevant Space" (which means the Premises,
reasonable access to the Premises, or any part of either Building or the Project
that provides essential services to the Premises) is damaged or destroyed during
the Term, Landlord shall, except as hereinafter provided, diligently repair or
rebuild it to substantially the condition in which it existed immediately prior
to such damage or destruction. If Landlord is obligated or elects to repair or
restore as herein provided, Landlord shall be obligated to make repair or
restoration of only those portions of the Premises which were initially provided
at Landlord's expense or as part of the original installation by Landlord for
Tenant and the repair and/or restoration of other items within the Premises
shall be the obligation of the Tenant.

     11.2 RENT ABATEMENT. Rent due and payable hereunder shall be abated
proportionately during any period in which, by reason of any such damage or
destruction, there is substantial interference with the operation of Tenant's
business in the Premises. Such abatement shall continue for the period
commencing with such damage or destruction and ending with a substantial
completion by Landlord of the work of repair or reconstruction which Landlord is
obligated or undertakes to do. If it be determined that continuation of business
is not practical pending reconstruction, and if Landlord does not elect to or is
unable to provide alternative temporary space for continuation of such business,
then Rent due and payable hereunder shall abate, until reconstruction is
substantially completed or until business is totally or partially resumed,
whichever is the earlier. Tenant shall not be entitled to any claim,
compensation or damages for loss in the use in the whole or any part of the
Premises (including loss of business) and/or any inconvenience or annoyance
occasioned by such damage, repair, reconstruction or restoration.

     11.3 EXCESSIVE DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION. If the Relevant Space is damaged or
destroyed to the extent that it cannot within Landlord's reasonable discretion,
with reasonable diligence, be fully repaired or restored by Landlord (using
standard working methods and procedures) within the earlier of (i) one hundred
twenty (120) days after the date of the damage or destruction, or (ii) the
expiration of the Term hereof, Landlord may terminate this Lease by written
notice to Tenant within thirty (30) days of the date of the damage or
destruction. If Landlord does not terminate the Lease, this Lease shall remain
in full force and effect and Landlord shall diligently repair and restore the
damage as soon as reasonably possible.

     11.4 UNINSURED CASUALTY. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary, in the event of damage to or destruction of all or any portion of the
Building, which damage or destruction is not fully covered by the insurance
proceeds received by Landlord under the insurance policies required under
Section 7.1 hereinabove, Landlord may terminate this Lease by written notice to
Tenant given within sixty (60) days after the date of notice to Landlord that
said damage or destruction is not so covered. If Landlord does not elect to
terminate this Lease, the Lease shall remain in full force and effect and the
Building shall be repaired and rebuilt in accordance with the provisions for
repair set forth in Section 11.1 hereinabove.

     11.5 WAIVER. With respect to any damage or destruction which Landlord is
obligated to repair or may elect to repair under the terms of this Article XI,
and to the extent permitted by law, Tenant hereby waives any rights to terminate
this Lease pursuant to rights otherwise accorded by law to tenants, except as
expressly otherwise provided herein.

                                      -19-
<PAGE>

     11.6 MORTGAGEE'S RIGHT. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if
the holder of any indebtedness secured by a mortgage or deed of trust covering
the Building and/or the Project requires that the insurance proceeds be applied
to such indebtedness, then Landlord shall have the right to terminate this Lease
by delivering written notice of termination to Tenant within fifteen (15) days
after such requirement is made. Upon any termination of this Lease under the
provisions hereof, the parties shall be released without further obligation to
the other from date possession of the Premises is surrendered to Landlord,
except for items which are theretofore accrued and are then unpaid.

     11.7 DAMAGE NEAR END OF TERM. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this Article XI, in the event the Premises or the Building are
subject to excessive damage (as defined in Section 11.3) during the last
twenty-four (24) months of the Term or any applicable extension periods,
Landlord may elect to terminate this Lease by written notice to Tenant within
thirty (30) days after the date of such damage.

                           ARTICLE XII EMINENT DOMAIN

            In the event the whole of the Premises, Building, Project and/or
Common Areas, as the case may be, and/or such part thereof as shall materially
interfere with Tenant's use and occupation thereof, shall be taken for any
public or quasi-public purpose by any lawful power or authority by exercise of
the right of appropriation, condemnation or eminent domain, or is sold in lieu
of or to prevent such taking, then Tenant shall have the right to terminate this
Lease effective as of the date possession is required to be surrendered to said
authority. In the event the whole of the Premises, Building, Project, and/or
Common Areas, as the case may be, or such part thereof as shall substantially
interfere with Landlord's use and occupation thereof, or if any access points to
adjoining streets, shall be taken for any public or quasi-public purpose by any
lawful power or authority by exercise of the right of appropriation,
condemnation or eminent domain, or is sold in lieu of or to prevent such taking,
then Landlord shall have the right to terminate this Lease effective as of the
date possession is required to be surrendered to said authority. Except as
provided below, Tenant shall not assert any claim against Landlord or the taking
authority for any compensation because of such taking, and Landlord shall be
entitled to receive the entire amount of any award without deduction for any
estate or interest of Tenant in the Premises. Nothing contained in this Article
XII shall be deemed to give Landlord any interest in any separate award made to
Tenant for the taking of personal property and fixtures belonging to Tenant or
for Tenant's moving expenses. In the event the amount of property or the type of
estate taken shall not materially interfere with the conduct of Tenant's
business, Landlord shall be entitled to the entire amount of the award without
deduction for any estate or interest of Tenant, Landlord shall promptly proceed
to restore the Building to substantially their same condition prior to such
partial taking less the portion thereof lost in such condemnation, and the Base
Rent shall be proportionately reduced by the time during which, and the portion
of the Premises which, Tenant shall have been deprived of possession on account
of said taking and restoration.

                              ARTICLE XIII DEFAULT

     13.1 EVENTS OF DEFAULT. The occurrence of any of the following events shall
constitute an "Event of Default" on the part of the Tenant:

         (a) Tenant shall fail to pay on or before the due date any installment
of Rent or other payment required pursuant to this Lease within five (5) days
after Tenant's receipt of written notice from Landlord of Tenant's failure to
make such payment;

         (b) Tenant shall fail to comply with any term, provision, or covenant
of this Lease, other than the payment of Rent or other sums of money due
hereunder, and such failure is not cured within fifteen (15) days after written
notice thereof to Tenant (said notice being in lieu of, and not in addition to,
any notice required as a prerequisite to a forcible entry and detainer or
similar action for possession of the Premises); provided that if the nature of
such cure is such that a longer cure period is necessary, Tenant shall only be
in default if Tenant shall have failed to commence such cure within said fifteen
(15) day period and thereafter to have diligently prosecuted such cure to
completion;

                                      -20-
<PAGE>

         (c) Tenant shall file a petition or be adjudged a debtor or bankrupt or
insolvent under the United States Bankruptcy Code, as amended, or any similar
law or statute of the United States or any State; or a receiver or trustee shall
be appointed for all or substantially all of the assets of Tenant and such
appointment or petition, if involuntary, is not dismissed within sixty (60) days
of filing; or

         (d) Tenant shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors.

     13.2 REMEDIES.

         (a) Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default set forth in this
Lease, in addition to any other remedies available to Landlord at law or in
equity, Landlord shall have the immediate option to terminate this Lease and all
rights of Tenant hereunder. In the event that Landlord shall elect to so
terminate this Lease, then Landlord may recover from Tenant: (i) any unpaid rent
which has been earned at the time of such termination plus interest at the rates
contemplated by this Lease; plus (ii) the amount by which the unpaid rent which
would have been earned after termination until the time of award exceeds the
amount of such rental loss that Tenant proves could have been reasonably avoided
plus interest at the rates contemplated by this Lease; plus (iii) the worth at
the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid rent for the balance of the
Term after the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that Tenant
proves could be reasonably avoided; plus (iv) the unamortized balance of the
value of any free Rent, tenant improvement costs, commissions and any other
monetary concessions provided to Tenant pursuant to this Lease, as amortized
over the initial Term of this Lease; plus (v) any other amount necessary to
compensate Landlord for all the damage proximately caused by Tenant's failure to
perform Tenant's obligation under this Lease or which in the ordinary course of
things would be likely to result therefrom, including, but not limited to, costs
to restore the Premises to good condition, costs to remodel, renovate or
otherwise prepare the Premises, or portions thereof, for a new tenant, leasing
commissions, marketing expenses, attorneys' fees, and free rent, moving
allowances and other types of leasing concessions. As used in Subsections
13.2(a) (iii) above, the "worth at the time of award" is computed by discounting
such amount at the discount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco at
the time of award plus one percent (1%). Landlord agrees to use its commercially
reasonable efforts to mitigate its damages.

         (b) In the event of any such default by Tenant, Landlord shall also
have the right with or without terminating this Lease, to re-enter the Premises
and remove all persons and property from the Premises; such property may be
removed and stored in a public warehouse or elsewhere at the cost of and for the
account of the Tenant. No re-entry or taking possession of the Premises by
Landlord pursuant to this Section 13.2(b) shall be construed as an acceptance of
a surrender of the Premises or an election to terminate this Lease unless a
written notice of such intention is given to Tenant or unless the termination
thereof is decreed by a court of competent jurisdiction.

         (c) In the event that Landlord shall elect to re-enter as provided
above or shall take possession of the Premises pursuant to legal proceedings or
pursuant to any notice provided by law, then if Landlord does not elect to
terminate this Lease as provided above, Landlord may from time to time, without
terminating this Lease, either recover all Rent as it becomes due or relet the
Premises or any part thereof for the Term of this Lease on terms and conditions
as Landlord at its sole discretion may deem advisable with the right to make
alterations and repairs to the Premises.

         (d) In the event that Landlord shall elect to so relet, the rents
received by Landlord from such reletting shall be applied: first to the payment
of any indebtedness other than Rent due hereunder from Tenant to Landlord;
second to the payment of any costs of such reletting; third, to the payment of
the cost of any alterations and repairs to the Premises; fourth, to the payment
of Rent due and unpaid hereunder; and the residual, if any, shall be held by
Landlord and applied to payment of future Rent as the same shall become due and
payable hereunder. Should that portion of such rents received from such
reletting during the month which is applied to the payment of Rent be less than
the Rent payable during that month by Tenant hereunder, then Tenant shall pay
any such deficiency to Landlord immediately upon demand therefor by Landlord.
Such deficiency shall be calculated and paid monthly. Tenant shall also pay to
Landlord, as soon as is certain, any of the costs and expenses incurred by

                                      -21-
<PAGE>

Landlord in such reletting or in making such alterations and repairs not covered
by the rents received from such reletting.

         (e) All rights, options and remedies of Landlord contained in this
Lease shall be construed and held to be cumulative, and no one of them shall be
exclusive of the other, and Landlord shall have the right to pursue any one or
all of such remedies or any other remedy or relief which may be provided by law,
whether or not stated in this Lease. No waiver of any default of Tenant
hereunder shall be implied from any acceptance by Landlord of any Rent or other
payments due hereunder or any omission by Landlord to take any action on account
of such default if such default persists or is repeated, and no express waiver
shall affect defaults other than as specified in said waiver. The consent or
approval of Landlord to or of any act by Tenant requiring Landlord's consent or
approval shall not be deemed to waive or render unnecessary Landlord's consent
or approval to or of any subsequent similar acts by Tenant.

         (f) In the event that during the term of this Lease, Tenant commits
more than two (2) acts or omissions of default for which default notices are
given by Landlord pursuant to this Article XIII (whether or not such defaults
are cured by Tenant), and if the defaults are material in Landlord's reasonable
judgment, Landlord may, at its option, elect to terminate this Lease. Landlord's
election to exercise its early termination rights shall be effective only upon
written notice delivered to Tenant specifying Landlord's election to cause an
early termination of this Lease. Such early termination shall be in effect when
such written notice is provided to Tenant. Landlord's right of early termination
shall be in addition to all other rights and remedies available to Landlord at
law or in equity.

     13.3 LANDLORD'S DEFAULT. Landlord shall not be in default unless Landlord
fails to perform its obligations under this Lease within thirty (30) days after
written notice by Tenant, or if such failure is not reasonably capable of being
cured within such thirty (30) day period, Landlord shall not be in default
unless Landlord has failed to commence the cure and diligently pursue the cure
to completion. In no event shall Tenant have the remedy to terminate this Lease
except upon final adjudication of competent jurisdiction authorizing such
default. In no event shall Landlord be liable to Tenant or any person claiming
through or under Tenant for consequential, exemplary or punitive damages.

                         ARTICLE XIV FILING OF PETITION

     Landlord and Tenant (as either debtor or debtor-in-possession) agree that
if a petition ("Petition") is filed by or against Tenant under any chapter of
Title 11 of the United States Code (the "Bankruptcy Code"), the following
provisions shall apply:

         (a) Adequate protection for Tenant's obligations accruing after filing
of the Petition and before this Lease is rejected or assumed shall be provided
within 15 days after filing in the form of a security deposit equal to three
months ' Base Rent and Additional Rent and other Lease charges, to be held by
the court or an escrow agent approved by Landlord and the court.

         (b) The sum of all amounts payable by Tenant to Landlord under this
Lease constitutes reasonable compensation for the occupancy of the Premises by
Tenant.

         (c) Tenant or Trustee shall give Landlord at least 30 days written
notice of any abandonment of the Premises or any proceeding relating to
administrative claims. If Tenant abandons without notice, Tenant or Trustee
shall stipulate to entry of an order for relief from stay to permit Landlord to
reenter and relet the Premises.

         (d) If Tenant failed to timely and fully perform any of its obligations
under this Lease before the filing of the Petition, whether or not Landlord has
given Tenant written notice of that failure and whether or not any time period
for cure expired before the filing of the Petition, Tenant shall be deemed to
have been in default on the date the Petition was filed for all purposes under
the Bankruptcy Code.

                                      -22-
<PAGE>

         (e) For the purposes of Section 365(b)(1) of the Bankruptcy Code,
prompt cure of defaults shall mean cure within 30 days after assumption.

         (f) For the purposes of Section 365(b)(1) and 365(f)(2) of the
Bankruptcy Code, adequate assurance of future performance of this Lease by
Tenant, Trustee or any proposed assignee will require that Tenant, Trustee or
the proposed assignee deposit three months of Base Rent and Additional Rent into
an escrow fund (to be held by the court or an escrow agent approved by Landlord
and the court) as security for such future performance. In addition, if this
Lease is to be assigned, adequate assurance of future performance by the
proposed assignee shall require that: (i) the assignee have a tangible net worth
not less than the net worth of Tenant as of the Commencement Date or that such
assignee's performance be unconditionally guaranteed by a person or entity that
has a tangible net worth not less than the net worth of Tenant as of the
Commencement Date; (ii) the assignee demonstrate that it possesses a history of
success in operating a business of similar size and complexity in a similar
market as Tenant's business; and (iii) assignee assume in writing all of
Tenant's obligations relating to the Premises or this Lease.

         (g) If Tenant or Trustee intends to assume and/or assign this Lease,
Tenant or Trustee shall provide Landlord with 30 days written notice of the
proposed action, separate from and in addition to any notice provided to all
creditors. Notice of a proposed assumption shall state the assurance of prompt
cure, compensation for loss and assurance of future performance to be provided
to Landlord. Notice of a proposed assignment shall state: (i) the name, address,
and federal tax identification and registration numbers of the proposed
assignee; (ii) all of the terms and conditions of the proposed assignment, and
(iii) the assignee's proposed adequate assurance of future performance to be
provided to Landlord.

         (h) If Tenant is in default under this Lease when the Petition is
filed, Landlord shall not be required to provide Tenant or Trustee with services
or supplies under this Lease or otherwise before Tenant assumes this Lease,
unless Tenant compensates Landlord for such services and supplies in advance.

                      ARTICLE XV ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING

     15.1 PROHIBITION. Tenant shall not assign, mortgage, pledge or otherwise
transfer or encumber this Lease, in whole or in part, nor sublet, assign, or
permit occupancy by any party other than Tenant of all or any part of the
Premises, without the prior written consent of Landlord in each instance which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed. Tenant
shall at the time the Tenant requests the consent of Landlord, deliver to
Landlord such information in writing as Landlord may reasonably require
respecting the proposed assignee or subtenant including, without limitation, the
name, address, nature of business, ownership, financial responsibility and
standing of such proposed assignee or subtenant and Landlord shall have not less
than twenty (20) business days after receipt of all required information to
elect one of the following: (a) consent to such proposed assignment, encumbrance
or sublease, or (b) refuse such consent, or (c) elect to terminate this Lease,
in the case of a proposed assignment, or elect to terminate the Lease with
respect to the portion of the Premises proposed to be subleased, as applicable.
Without making a formal request for consent to an assignment or sublease, Tenant
may request that Landlord give Tenant its decision whether it intends to enforce
the recapture provision in clause (c). Landlord agrees to respond to such
request within 20 days after Tenant's request for the decision. In addition, as
a condition to Landlord's consent to any assignment, sublease or encumbrance of
this Lease shall be the delivery to Landlord of a true copy of the fully
executed instrument of assignment, transfer or encumbrance and an agreement
executed by the assignee, sublessee or other transferee in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to Landlord and expressly enforceable by Landlord,
whereby the assignee assumes and agrees to be bound by the terms and provisions
of this Lease and perform all the obligations of Tenant hereunder with respect
to the assigned or subleased portion of the Premises. No assignment or
subletting by Tenant shall relieve Tenant of any obligation under this Lease,
including Tenant's obligation to pay Base Rent and Additional Rent hereunder.
Any purported assignment or subletting contrary to the provisions hereof without
consent shall be void. The consent by Landlord to any assignment or subletting
shall not constitute a waiver of the necessity for such consent to any
subsequent assignment of subletting. Tenant 's sole remedy for Landlord's
refusal to consent to a proposed assignee or sublessee of Tenant will be an
action or proceeding for specific performance, injunction or declaratory relief.
Tenant shall pay Landlord's reasonable processing costs and attorneys' fees
incurred in reviewing any proposed Assignment or sublease.

                                      -23-
<PAGE>

     15.2 EXCESS RENTAL. If Tenant assigns this Lease or subleases the Premises,
Tenant shall pay to Landlord as Additional Rent under this Lease fifty percent
(50%) of the Profit on such transaction as herein provided. For purposes of this
Section 15.2, the term "Profit" means the consideration received by Tenant from
an assignee or subtenant in excess of the amount Tenant must pay Landlord under
this Lease, which amount is to be prorated where a part of the Premises is
subleased or assigned. In determining the Profit, the consideration received by
Tenant shall be deemed to be reduced by the leasing commissions paid by Tenant,
payments attributable to the costs of improvements made to the Premises at
Tenant's cost for the assignee or sublessee, and other reasonable, out-of-pocket
costs paid by Tenant, such as attorney fees related to Tenant's obtaining an
assignee or sublessee, costs of advertising or marketing the space, moving
expenses paid by Tenant for the assignee or subtenant, and other economic
concessions given by Tenant to the assignee or sublessee. Tenant shall pay fifty
percent (50%) of the Profit to Landlord within thirty (30) days after the end of
each calendar year during which Tenant collects any Profit.

     15.3 SCOPE. The prohibition against assigning or subletting contained in
this Article XV shall be construed to include a prohibition against any
assignment or subletting by operation of law. If this Lease be assigned, or if
the underlying beneficial interest of Tenant is transferred, or if the Premises
or any part thereof be sublet or occupied by anybody other than Tenant, Landlord
may collect rent from the assignee, subtenant or occupant and apply the net
amount collected to the Rent herein reserved and apportion any excess rent so
collected in accordance with the terms of the immediately preceding paragraph,
but no such assignment, subletting, occupancy or collection shall be deemed a
waiver of this covenant, or the acceptance of the assignee, subtenant or
occupant as tenant, or a release of Tenant from the further performance by
Tenant of covenants on the part of Tenant herein contained. No assignment or
subletting shall affect the continuing primary liability of Tenant (which,
following assignment, shall be joint and several with the assignee), and Tenant
shall not be released from performing any of the terms, covenants and conditions
of this Lease.

     15.4 WAIVER. Notwithstanding any assignment or sublease, or any
indulgences, waivers or extensions of time granted by Landlord to any assignee
or sublessee or failure of Landlord to take action against any assignee or
sublease, Tenant hereby agrees that Landlord may, at its option, and upon not
less than ten (10) days' notice to Tenant, proceed against Tenant without having
taken action against or joined such assignee or sublessee, except that Tenant
shall have the benefit of any indulgences, waivers and extensions of time
granted to any such assignee or sublessee.

     15.5 CHANGE IN CONTROL. So long as Tenant is not in default of the Lease,
Tenant shall have the right to assign this Lease to any corporation or other
entity which is controlled by, under the control of, or under common control
with Tenant, or any corporation into which Tenant may be merged or consolidated,
or which purchases all or substantially all of the assets or stock of Tenant
(each an "Affiliate of Tenant"); provided, however, (a) Tenant shall not be
released from its obligations under this Lease, (b) Landlord shall be given at
least 15 days prior written notice of the assignment, (c) Landlord shall be
given a copy of the document effecting the assignment at least 15 days prior to
the date on which the assignment shall occur, and (d) from and after the date of
the assignment, Tenant shall be jointly and severally liable with the Affiliate
of Tenant with respect to all obligations of Tenant under this Lease.

         ARTICLE XVI ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE, ATTORNMENT AND SUBORDINATION

     16.1 ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATES. Within ten (10) business days after request
therefor by Landlord, or if on any sale, assignment or hypothecation by Landlord
of Landlord's interest in the Project and/or the Premises, or any part thereof,
an estoppel certificate shall be required from Tenant, Tenant shall deliver a
certificate in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D, or in such other form as
requested by Landlord, to any proposed mortgagee or purchaser, and to Landlord,
certifying (if such be the case) that this Lease is in full force and effect,
the date of Tenant's most recent payment of Rent, and that Tenant has no
defenses or offsets outstanding, or stating those claimed by Tenant, and any
other information contained in such Exhibit D or reasonably requested by
Landlord or such proposed mortgagee or purchaser. Tenant's failure to deliver
said statement within said period shall, at Landlord's option be an Event of
Default hereunder and shall in any event be conclusive upon Tenant that: (i)
this Lease is in full force and effect, without modification except as may be
represented by Landlord; (ii) there are no uncured defaults in Landlord's
performance and Tenant has no right to offset, counterclaim or deduction against
Rent hereunder; and (iii) no more than one period's Base Rent has been paid in
advance. Landlord agrees that it shall, at any time upon not less than ten days'
prior written request from Tenant, execute, acknowledge, and deliver a

                                      -24-
<PAGE>

statement in writing (i) certifying that this Lease is unmodified and in full
force and effect (or, if modified, stating the nature of such modification and
certifying that this Lease, as so modified, is in full force and effect); (ii)
certifying the date to which Rent and other charges are paid in advance, if any,
and the amount of any security deposit which has been paid; (iii) acknowledging
that there are not, to Landlord's knowledge, any uncured defaults on the part of
Tenant, or specifying such defaults, if any are claimed; and (iv) certifying to
Tenant correct and reasonably ascertainable facts that are covered by the terms
of this Lease. Any such statement may be conclusively relied upon by any
prospective purchaser of the Premises, any assignee of this Lease, or any lender
or prospective lender.

     16.2 ATTORNMENT. Tenant shall, in the event any proceedings are brought for
the foreclosure of, or in the event of exercise of the power of sale under, any
mortgage or deed of trust made by Landlord, its successors or assigns,
encumbering the Building, or any part thereof or in the event of termination of
a ground lease, if any, and if so requested, attorn to the purchaser upon such
foreclosure or sale or upon any grant of a deed in lieu of foreclosure and
recognize such purchaser as Landlord under this Lease; provided, that such
purchaser recognizes Tenant's rights under this Lease and agrees not to disturb
Tenant's quiet possession of the Premises for so long as Tenant is not in
default hereunder.

     16.3 SUBORDINATION. The rights of Tenant hereunder are and shall be, at the
election of any mortgagee or the beneficiary of a deed of trust encumbering the
Project (or the portion thereof on which the Building is located) and/or
Building, subject and subordinate to the lien of such mortgage or deed of trust,
or the lien resulting from any other method of financing or refinancing, now or
hereafter in force against the Project (or the portion thereof on which the
Building is located) and/or the Building, and to all advances made or hereafter
to be made upon the security thereof. If requested, Tenant agrees to execute
such documentation as may be reasonably required by Landlord or its lender to
further effect the provisions of this Article so long as the holder of the
mortgage, deed of trust or other lien at issue agrees not to disturb Tenant's
rights under this Lease so long as Tenant is not in default of this Lease.

     16.4 RECORDING. Tenant covenants and agrees with Landlord that Tenant shall
not record this Lease. At Tenant's request, Landlord agrees to execute and
acknowledge a memorandum of this Lease and deliver such memorandum to Tenant so
that Tenant may record the same. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 16.3,
in the event that Landlord or its lender requires this Lease or a memorandum
thereof to be recorded in priority to any mortgage, deed of trust or other
encumbrance which may now or at any time hereafter affect in whole or in part
the Building, the Project (or the portion thereof on which the Building is
located), and whether or not any such mortgage, deed of trust or other
encumbrance shall affect only the Building, the Project (or the portion thereof
on which the Building is located), or shall be a blanket mortgage, deed of trust
or encumbrance affecting other premises as well, the Tenant covenants and agrees
with Landlord that the Tenant shall execute promptly upon request from Landlord
any reasonable certificate, reasonable priority agreement or other reasonable
instrument which may from time to time be requested to give effect thereto.

     16.5 SUBORDINATION OF LANDLORD'S LIEN. Landlord agrees to subordinate its
landlord's lien on Tenant's personal property to the lien of Tenant's lender if
the terms of such subordination are reasonably acceptable to Landlord.

                           ARTICLE XVII MISCELLANEOUS

     17.1 NOTICES. All notices required to be given hereunder shall be in
writing and mailed postage prepaid by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, or by personal delivery or nationally recognized courier
service, to the appropriate address indicated in Section 1.1(b) or Section
1.1(e), as appropriate, at such street address or street addresses (but not more
than three such addresses) as either Landlord or Tenant may, from time to time,
respectively, designate in a written notice given to the other. Notices shall be
deemed sufficiently served upon the earlier of actual receipt or the expiration
of three (3) days after the date of mailing thereof. Tenant agrees to accept
service of process for all matters related to this Lease at the Premises.

                                      -25-
<PAGE>

     17.2 SUCCESSORS BOUND. This Lease and each of its covenants and conditions
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and
their respective assignees, subject to the provisions hereof. Whenever in this
Lease a reference is made to Landlord, such reference shall be deemed to refer
to the person in whom the interest of Landlord shall be vested, and Landlord
shall have no obligation hereunder as to any claim arising after the transfer of
its interest in the Building. Any successor or assignee of the Tenant who
accepts an assignment of the benefit of this Lease and enters into possession or
enjoyment hereunder shall thereby assume and agree to perform and be bound by
the covenants and conditions thereof. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed
in any manner to give a right of assignment without the prior written consent of
Landlord pursuant to, or otherwise as provided in, Article XV hereof.

     17.3 WAIVER. No waiver of any default or breach of any covenant by either
party hereunder shall be implied from any omission by either party to take
action on account of such default if such default persists or is repeated, and
no express waiver shall affect any default other than the default specified in
the waiver and said waiver shall be operative only for the time and to the
extent therein stated. Waivers of any covenant, term or condition contained
herein by either party shall not be construed as a waiver of any subsequent
breach of the same covenant, term or condition. The consent or approval by
either party to or of any act by either party requiring further consent or
approval shall not be deemed to waive or render unnecessary their consent or
approval to or of any subsequent similar acts.

     17.4 SUBDIVISION AND EASEMENTS. Landlord reserves the right to: (a)
subdivide the Project; (b) alter the boundaries of the Project; and (c) grant
easements on the Project and dedicate for public use portions thereof; provided,
however, that no such subdivision, alteration of boundaries, grant or dedication
shall materially interfere with Tenant's use of the Premises. Tenant hereby
consents to such subdivision, boundary revision, and/or grant or dedication of
easements and agrees from time to time, at Landlord's request, to execute,
acknowledge and deliver to Landlord, in accordance with Landlord's instructions,
any and all documents, instruments, maps or plats necessary to effectuate
Tenant's consent thereto.

     17.5 LANDLORD'S RESERVED RIGHTS IN COMMON AREAS. Landlord reserves the
right from time to time, provided that Tenant's use and enjoyment of, and access
to and from, the Premises is not materially and adversely affected thereby, to:
(a) install, use, maintain, repair and replace pipes, ducts, conduits, wires and
appurtenant meters and equipment for service to other parts of the Building
above the ceiling surfaces, below the floor surfaces, within the walls and in
the central core areas, and to relocate any pipes, ducts, conduit, wires and
appurtenant meters in the Building which are so located or located elsewhere
outside the Building; (b) make changes to the Common Areas and/or the parking
facilities located thereon, including, without limitation, changes in the
location, size, shape and number of driveways, entrances, parking spaces,
parking areas, loading and unloading areas, ingress, egress, direction of
traffic, landscaped areas and walkways; (c) close temporarily all or any portion
of the Common Areas and/or the Building in order to perform any of the foregoing
or any of Landlord's obligations under this Lease, so long as reasonable access
to the Building remains available during normal business hours; and (d) alter,
relocate or expand, and/or to add additional structures and improvements to, or
remove same from, all or any portion of the Common Areas or other portions of
the Project.

     17.6 ACCORD AND SATISFACTION. No payment by Tenant or receipt by Landlord
of a lesser amount than the Rent herein stipulated shall be deemed to be other
than on account of the Rent, nor shall any endorsement or statement on any check
or any letter accompanying any check or payment as Rent be deemed an accord and
satisfaction, and Landlord may accept such check or payment without prejudice to
Landlord's right to recover the balance of such Rent or pursue any other remedy
provided in this Lease.

     17.7 LIMITATION OF LANDLORD'S LIABILITY. The obligations of Landlord under
this Lease do not constitute personal obligations of the individual partners,
directors, officers, members, employees or shareholders of Landlord or its
partners, and Tenant shall look solely to the Project, and the rents and profits
therefrom, for satisfaction of any liability in respect of this Lease and will
not seek recourse against the individual partners, directors, officers, members,
employees or shareholders of Landlord or its partners or any of their personal
assets for such satisfaction.

     17.8 SURVIVAL. The obligations and liabilities of each party which are
incurred or accrue prior to the expiration of this Lease or the termination of
this Lease or of Tenant's right of possession shall survive such

                                      -26-
<PAGE>

expiration or termination, as shall all provisions by which a party is to
provide defense and indemnity to the other party, all provisions waiving or
limiting the liability of Landlord, and all attorneys' fees provisions.

     17.9 ATTORNEYS' FEES. In the event either party requires the services of an
attorney in connection with enforcing the terms of this Lease or in the event
suit is brought for the recovery of any Rent due under this Lease or the breach
of any covenant or condition of this Lease, or for the restitution of the
Premises to Landlord and/or eviction of Tenant during the Term of this Lease, or
after the expiration thereof, the substantially prevailing party will be
entitled to a reasonable sum for attorneys' fees, witness fees and other court
costs, both at trial and on appeal.

     17.10 CAPTIONS AND ARTICLE NUMBERS. The captions, article, paragraph and
section numbers and table of contents appearing in this Lease are inserted only
as a matter of convenience and in no way define, limit, construe or describe the
scope or intent of such sections or articles of this Lease nor in any way affect
this Lease.

     17.11 SEVERABILITY. If any term, covenant, condition or provision of this
Lease, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall to any
extent be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or
unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, covenants, conditions or provisions
of this Lease, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, shall
remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or
invalidated.

     17.12 APPLICABLE LAW. This Lease, and the rights and obligations of the
parties hereto, shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of
the state in which the Building is located.

     17.13 SUBMISSION OF LEASE. The submission of this document for examination
and negotiation does not constitute an offer to lease, or a reservation of or
option for leasing the Premises. This document shall become effective and
binding only upon execution and delivery hereof by Landlord and Tenant. No act
or omission of any officer, employee or agent of Landlord or Tenant shall alter,
change or modify any of the provisions hereof.

     17.14 HOLDING OVER. Should Tenant, or any of its successors in interest,
hold over the Premises or any part thereof after the expiration or earlier
termination of this Lease without Landlord's prior written consent, such holding
over shall constitute and be construed as tenancy at sufferance only, at a
monthly rent equal to one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the Base Rent owed
during the final month of the Term of this Lease and otherwise upon the terms
and conditions in the Lease, so far as applicable. Should Tenant, or any of its
successors in interest, hold over the Premises or any part thereof after the
expiration or earlier termination of this Lease with Landlord's prior written
consent, such holding over shall constitute and be construed as a tenancy from
month to month only, at a fair market monthly rent as agreed by Landlord and
Tenant and otherwise upon the terms and conditions of this Lease, so far as
applicable. The acceptance by Landlord of Rent after such expiration or early
termination shall not result in a renewal or extension of this Lease. The
foregoing provisions of this Section 17.14 are in addition to and do not affect
Landlord's right of re-entry or any other rights of Landlord hereunder or as
otherwise provided by law. If Tenant fails to surrender the Premises on the
expiration of this Lease and/or to remove all Tenant's fixtures and/or personal
property pursuant to Section 9.1 hereof, Tenant shall indemnify and hold
Landlord harmless for, from and against all claims, damages, loss or liability,
including without limitation, any claim made by any succeeding tenant resulting
from such failure to surrender by Tenant and any attorneys' fees and costs
incurred by Landlord with respect to any such claim.

     17.15 RULES AND REGULATIONS. At all times during the Term, Tenant shall
comply with Rules and Regulations for the Building and the Project, as set forth
in Exhibit E attached hereto, together with such amendments thereto as Landlord
may from time to time reasonably adopt and enforce in a non-discriminatory
fashion; provided that:

         (a) Tenant is given fifteen (15) days' advance notice of such
modifications or new rules and regulations; and

         (b) Such modifications or new rules and regulations are (i) for the
safety, care, order and cleanliness of the Project, (ii) do not unreasonably and
materially interfere with Tenant's conduct of its business or

                                      -27-
<PAGE>

Tenant's use and enjoyment of or its access to the Premises, or (iii) are of the
type customarily imposed for similar buildings.

If a Rule or Regulation conflicts with or is inconsistent with any Lease
provision, the Lease provision controls. Landlord agrees not to enforce the
Rules and Regulations in a discriminatory fashion.

     17.16 PARKING. Unless Tenant is in default hereunder, Tenant shall be
entitled to the number of unreserved vehicle parking spaces designated in
Section 1.1(q) hereof for the non-exclusive use of Tenant, its employees,
visitors and customers. All parking spaces shall be available for the common use
of the tenants, subtenants and invitees of the Project on a non-exclusive basis,
subject to any reasonable restrictions from time to time imposed by Landlord.
Tenant shall not use or permit its officers, employees or invitees to use more
than the number of spaces designated in Section 1.1(q) or any spaces which have
been specifically reserved by Landlord to other tenants or for such other uses
as have been designated by appropriate governmental entities as being restricted
to certain uses. Tenant shall at all times comply and cause its officers,
employees and invitees to comply with any parking Rules and Regulations as
Landlord may from time to time reasonably adopt.

     17.17 NO NUISANCE. Tenant shall conduct its business and control its
agents, employees, invitees and visitors in such a manner as not to create any
nuisance, or interfere with, annoy or disrupt any other tenant or Landlord in
its operation of the Building or Project.

     17.18 BROKER; AGENCY DISCLOSURE. Landlord has not engaged any real estate
broker or agent in connection with this Lease. Tenant has entered into an
agreement with Colliers International ("Colliers") pursuant to which Colliers
has advised Tenant. Tenant is responsible for the payment of all fees and
commissions to Colliers in connection with this Lease. Landlord has no
responsibility for any such fees or commissions. Tenant shall indemnify and hold
harmless Landlord from and against any and all claims, demands, losses,
liabilities, lawsuits, judgments, costs and expenses (including without
limitation, attorneys' fees and costs) with respect to any leasing commission or
equivalent compensation alleged to be owing on account of Tenant's discussions,
negotiations and/or dealings with Colliers, whose fee shall be paid by Tenant.

     17.19 LANDLORD'S RIGHT TO PERFORM. Upon Tenant's failure to perform any
obligation of Tenant hereunder after notice from Landlord pursuant to Section
13.1 above, including without limitation, payment of Tenant's insurance premiums
and charges of contractors who have supplied materials or labor to the Premises.
Landlord shall have the right to perform such obligation of Tenant on behalf of
Tenant and/or to make payment on behalf of Tenant to such parties. Tenant shall
reimburse Landlord the reasonable cost of Landlord's performing such obligation
on Tenant's behalf, including reimbursement of any amounts that may be expended
by Landlord, plus interest at the Default Rate, as Additional Rent.

     17.20 ASSIGNMENT BY LANDLORD. In the event of a sale, conveyance, or other
transfer by Landlord of the Building, the Project, or portion thereof on which
the Building is located, or in the event of an assignment of this Lease by
Landlord, the same shall operate to release Landlord from any further liability
upon any of the covenants or conditions, express or implied, herein contained on
the part of Landlord, and from any and all further liability, obligations, costs
and expenses, demands, causes of action, claims or judgments arising out of this
Lease from and after the effective date of said release. In such event, Tenant
agrees to look solely to the successor in interest of Landlord with respect to
liabilities accruing after the date of such sale, conveyance, transfer, or
assignment. If any Security Deposit is given by Tenant to secure performance of
Tenant's covenants hereunder, Landlord shall transfer such Security Deposit to
any purchaser and thereupon Landlord shall be discharged from any further
liability in reference thereto. Notwithstanding anything in this Lease to the
contrary, however, (i) in no event shall Landlord's lender, who may have
succeeded to the interest of Landlord by foreclosure, deed in lieu of
foreclosure, or any other means, have any liability for any obligation of
Landlord to protect, defend, indemnify or hold harmless Tenant or any other
person or entity except for those matters arising from the lender's breach of
the terms of this Lease after the date of such foreclosure, deed in lieu of
foreclosure or any other means, and (ii) such succeeding lender shall have no
liability for any representations or warranties of the Landlord contained herein
except for those matters arising from the lender's breach of the terms of this
Lease after the date of such foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure or any
other means.

                                      -28-
<PAGE>

     17.21 ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Lease sets forth all covenants, promises,
agreements, conditions and understandings between Landlord and Tenant concerning
the Building and the Project, and there are no covenants, promises, agreements,
conditions or understandings, either oral or written, between Landlord and
Tenant other than as are herein set forth. No subsequent alteration, amendment,
change or addition to the Lease shall be binding upon Landlord or Tenant unless
reduced to writing and signed by Landlord and Tenant.

     17.22 FINANCIAL COVENANTS. If Tenant is not a publicly traded company with
its financial information readily available to the public on the Internet, at
Landlord's request, Tenant shall provide Landlord with current annual audited
financial statements and quarterly unaudited financial statements (all such
statements shall be prepared in compliance with GAAP standards) setting forth
Tenant's financial condition.

     17.23 CONSENTS. Whenever the approval or consent of Landlord or Tenant is
required under the terms of this Lease, such consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed unless a different standard of approval is specifically set
forth in the particular Section containing that particular consent requirement.

     17.24 EXHIBITS. Exhibits A through E are attached to this Lease after the
signatures and by this reference incorporated herein.

     17.25 TIME. Time is of the essence with respect to the performance of every
provision of this Lease in which time of performance is a factor.

     17.26 AUTHORITY TO BIND LANDLORD. The individuals signing this Lease on
behalf of Landlord hereby represent and warrant that they are empowered and duly
authorized to bind Landlord to this Lease.

     17.27 AUTHORITY TO BIND TENANT. The individuals signing this Lease on
behalf of Tenant hereby represent and warrant that they are empowered and duly
authorized to bind Tenant to this Lease.

     17.28 INTERPRETATION. The parties hereto specifically acknowledge and agree
that the terms of this Lease have been mutually negotiated and the parties
hereby specifically waive the rule or principle of contract construction which
provides that any ambiguity in any term or provision of a contract will be
interpreted or resolved against the party which drafted such term or provision.

     17.29 EXCUSED DELAYS. Except as otherwise set forth in this Section 17.30,
neither party shall have liability to the other on account of the following acts
(each of which is an "Excused Delay" and jointly all of which are "Excused
Delays")" which shall include: (a) the inability to fulfill, or delay in
fulfilling, any obligations under this Lease by reason of strike, lockout, other
labor trouble, dispute or disturbance; (b) governmental regulation, moratorium,
action, preemption or priorities or other controls; (c) shortages of fuel,
supplies or labor; (d) any failure or defect in the supply, quantity or
character of electricity or water furnished to the Premises by reason of any
requirement, act or omission of the public utility or others furnishing the
Building with electricity or water; or (e) for any other reason, whether similar
or dissimilar to the above, or for act of God beyond a party's reasonable
control. If this Lease specifies a time period for performance of an obligation
of a party, that time period shall be extended by the period of any delay in the
party's performance caused by any of the events of Excused Delay described
herein; provided, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary above, no
payment of money (whether as Base Rent, Tenant's Share of Operating Expenses, or
any other payment due under this Lease) shall be postponed, delayed or forgiven
by reason of any of the foregoing events of Excused Delay.

     17.30 QUIET ENJOYMENT. Until such time as this Lease has expired or been
terminated pursuant to this Lease, Tenant shall peaceably and quietly have,
hold, and enjoy the Premises for the Term of this Lease without hindrance or
disturbance by anyone. Landlord will defend Tenant's right to quiet enjoyment of
the Premises from the lawful claims of all persons claiming through Landlord
during the Term of the Lease.

     17.31 LANDLORD'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. Landlord represents and
warrants as follows:

         (a) Landlord has received no written notice of any liens to be assessed
against the Premises, Buildings, or Project;

                                      -29-
<PAGE>

         (b) Landlord has received no written notice or any current violation of
any laws relating to the Premises, Buildings, or Project;

         (c) The execution, delivery, and performance of this Lease by Landlord
will not result in any breach of, or constitute any default under, or result in
the imposition of any lien or encumbrance on the Premises under any agreement or
other instrument to which Landlord is a party or by which Landlord or the
Premises might be bound;

         (d) To the best of Landlord's actual knowledge, there are no legal
actions, suits, or other legal or administrative proceedings, including
condemnation cases, pending or threatened, against the Premises, and Landlord is
not aware of any fact that might result in any such action, suit, or other
proceeding.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Lease as of the date
first above written.

"Landlord"                                 "Tenant"

SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.                 SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.


By:         /s/ K. Novack                  By:     /s/ R. Philip
   ------------------------------------        ---------------------------------
Its:        CEO                            Its:         CEO
   ------------------------------------        ---------------------------------























                                      -30-
<PAGE>

                                    EXHIBIT A

                                PROJECT SITE PLAN































                                      -31-
<PAGE>

                                    EXHIBIT B

                                   FLOOR PLAN






































                                      -32-
<PAGE>

                                    EXHIBIT C

                               LEASE CONFIRMATION

            This Lease Confirmation is made ________________, 20__, by
__________________________________, a _______________________________
("Tenant"), who agree as follows:

            1. Landlord and Tenant entered into a lease dated _______________,
20__, in which Landlord leased to Tenant and Tenant leased from Landlord the
premises described in Section 2.1 of said Lease ("Premises"). All capitalized
terms herein are as defined in the Lease.

            2. Pursuant to the Lease, Landlord and Tenant agreed to and do
hereby confirm the following matters as of the Commencement of the Term:

            a. _____________________, 20__ is the Commencement Date of the Term
of the Lease;

            b. _____________________, 20___ is the expiration date of the Term
of the Lease;

            c. The initial Base Rent under the Lease, subject to adjustments as
provided in the Lease, is $________________________.

            3. Tenant confirms that:

                 a. It has accepted possession of the Premises as provided in
the Lease;

                 b. The improvements required to be furnished by Landlord under
the Lease have been furnished (subject to any corrective work or punch-list
items of which Tenant has notified Landlord in accordance with the Lease);

                 c. Landlord has fulfilled all its duties of an inducement
nature;

                 d. The Lease is in full force and effect and has not been
modified, altered, or amended, except as follows:

                    _________________________________________________________

                    _______________________________________________; and

                 e. There are no setoffs or credits against Rent, and no
Security Deposit or prepaid rent has been paid except as provided by the Lease.

            4. The provisions of this Lease Confirmation shall inure to the
benefit, or bind, as the case may require, the parties and their respective
successors and assigns, subject to the restrictions on assignment and subleasing
contained in the Lease.

                                       Initials

                                       Landlord: _________________
                                       Tenant: ___________________



                                      -33-
<PAGE>

                                    EXHIBIT D

                              ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE

_____________________
_____________________
_____________________

            Re: Lease dated __________, 2___ ("Lease") by and between
______________________________ ("Landlord"), and _______________________________
("Tenant")

            Ladies and Gentlemen:

            Reference is made to the above-described Lease in which the
undersigned is the Tenant. We understand that you are accepting an assignment of
Landlord's rights under the Lease as _________________________________, and we
hereby, as a material inducement for you to consummate the transaction,
represent that:

            1. There are no modifications amendments, supplements, arrangements,
side letters or understandings, oral or written, of any sort, modifying,
amending, altering, supplementing or changing the terms of the Lease, except for
those attached to this Certificate.

            2. The Lease is in full force and effect, and the Lease has been
duly executed and delivered by, and is a binding obligation of, the Tenant as
set forth therein.

            3. The undersigned acknowledges (a) that rent on the Lease has been
paid up to and including _____________, 2___ (b) that monthly rent during the
_________________ (_______) years of the term of the Lease is $______________
per month, and (c) that rent has not been paid for any period after
____________, 2___ and shall not, except for any Prepaid Rent as specified in
the Lease, be paid for a period in excess of one (1) month in advance.

            4. To the current knowledge of the undersigned, the improvements on
the Building are free from defects in design, materials and workmanship and the
improvements meet all governmental requirements, including, but not limited to,
zoning and environmental requirements.

            5. To the current knowledge of the undersigned, the Lease is not in
default, and Landlord has performed the obligations required to be preformed by
Landlord under the terms thereof through the date hereof.

            Dated: _________________, 2___.



Very truly yours,

"Tenant"
_________________________
_________________________


By:_______________________
Its:_______________________




                                      -34-
<PAGE>

                                    EXHIBIT E

                          OFFICE RULES AND REGULATIONS

            1. SIGN. No sign, placard, picture, advertisement, name or notice
shall be inscribed, displayed, printed or affixed on or to any part of the
outside or inside of the Building, the Premises or the surrounding area without
the written consent of the Landlord being first obtained. If such consent is
given by Landlord, Landlord may regulate the manner of display of the sign,
placard, picture, advertisement, name or notice. Landlord shall have the right
to remove any sign, placard, picture, advertisement, name or notice which has
not been approved by Landlord or is being displayed in a non-approved manner
without notice to and at the expense of the Tenant. Tenant shall not place
anything or allow anything to be placed near the glass of any window, door,
partition or wall which may appear unsightly from outside of the Premises.

            2. DIRECTORY. The bulletin board or directory of the Building will
be provided exclusively for the display of the name and location of tenants and
Landlord reserves the right to exclude any other names therefrom.

            3. ACCESS. The sidewalks, halls, passages, exits, entrances,
elevators and stairways shall not be obstructed by any of the tenants or used by
them for any purpose other than for ingress to and egress from their respective
Premises. The halls, passages, entrances, exits, elevators, stairways, balconies
and roof are not for the use of the general public and the Landlord shall in all
cases retain the right to control thereof and prevent access thereto by all
persons whose presence in the judgment of the Landlord shall be prejudicial to
the safety, character, reputation and interests of the Building or its tenants;
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent
access by persons with whom the Tenant normally deals in the ordinary course of
Tenant's business unless such persons are engaged in illegal activities. No
Tenant and no employees or invitees of any Tenant shall go upon the roof of the
Building.

            4. LOCKS. Tenant shall not alter any lock or install any new
additional locks or any bolts on any door of the Premises without the written
consent of Landlord.

            5. RESTROOMS. The toilet rooms, urinals, wash bowls and other
apparatus shall not be used for any purpose other than that for which they were
constructed and no foreign substance of any kind whatsoever shall be thrown
therein. The expense of any breakage, stoppage or damage resulting from a
violation of this rule shall be borne by the Tenant who, or whose employees,
sublessees, assignees, agents, licensees, or invitees shall have caused it.

            6. NO DEFACING PREMISES. Tenant shall not overload the floor of the
Premises, shall not mark on or drive nails, screw or drill into the partitions,
woodwork or plaster (except as may be incidental to the hanging of wall
decorations), and shall not in any way deface the Premises or any part thereof.

            7. SAFES AND HEAVY EQUIPMENT. No furniture, freight or equipment of
any kind shall be brought into the Building without the consent of Landlord and
all moving of the same into or out of the Building shall be done at such time
and in such manner as Landlord shall designate. Landlord shall have the right to
prescribe the times and manner of moving all heavy equipment in and out of the
Building. Landlord will not be responsible for loss of or damage to any such
safe or property from any cause and all damage done to the Building by moving or
maintaining any such safe or other property shall be repaired at the expense of
Tenant. There shall not be used in any Premises or in the public halls of the
Building, either by any tenant or others, any hand trucks except those equipped
with rubber tires and side guards. Elevators must be padded while moving freight
via the elevators. All such heavy equipment shall be subject to the requirements
of Rule 25 below.

            8. NUISANCE. Tenant shall not use, keep or permit to be used or kept
any noxious gas or substance in the Premises, or permit or suffer the Premises
to be occupied or used in a manner offensive or objectionable to the Landlord or
other occupants of the Building by reason of excessive noise, odors and/or
vibrations, or unreasonably interfere in any way with other tenants or those
having business in the Building. No animals or birds shall be brought in or kept
in or about the Premises or the Building. No Tenant shall make or permit to be
made any unreasonably disturbing noises or unreasonably disturb or interfere
with occupants of this or neighboring Buildings or Premises, or with those
having business with such occupants by the use of any musical instrument, radio,

                                      -35-
<PAGE>

phonograph, unusual noise, or in any other way. No Tenant shall throw anything
out of doors or down the passageways.

            9. PERMITTED USE. The Premises shall not be used for manufacturing
or for the storage of merchandise except as such storage may be incidental to
the use of the Premises for general office purposes. No Tenant shall occupy or
permit any portion of its Premises to be occupied for the manufacture or sale of
liquor, narcotics, or tobacco in any form, or as a medical office, or as a
barber shop or manicure shop except with prior written consent of Landlord. No
Tenant shall advertise for laborers giving an address at the Premises. The
Premises shall not be used for lodging or sleeping or for illegal purposes.

            10. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Tenant shall not use or keep in the
Premises or the Building any kerosene, gasoline or inflammable or combustible
fluid or material or any Hazardous Materials as defined in Section 10.2 of the
Lease or use any method of heating or air conditioning other than that supplied
by Landlord.

            11. TELEPHONES. Landlord will direct electricians as to where and
how telephone and telegraph wires are to be introduced. No boring or cutting for
or stringing of wires will be allowed without the consent of Landlord. The
location of telephones, call boxes and other office equipment affixed to the
Premises shall be subject to the approval of Landlord.

            12. KEYS. All keys to the Building, Premises, rooms and toilet rooms
shall be obtained from Landlord's office and Tenant shall not from any other
source duplicate or obtain keys or have keys made. The Tenant, upon termination
of the tenancy, shall deliver to the Landlord the keys to the Building,
Premises, rooms and toilet rooms which shall have been furnished and shall pay
the Landlord the cost of replacing any lost key or of changing the lock or locks
opened by such lost key if Landlord deems it necessary to make such change.

            13. FLOOR COVERING. No Tenant shall lay linoleum, tile, carpet or
other similar floor coverings so that the same shall be affixed to the floor or
the Premises in any manner except as approved by the Landlord. The expense of
repairing any damage resulting from a violation of this rule or removal of any
floor covering shall be borne by the Tenant by whom, or by whose contractors,
agents, sublessees, licensees, employees or invitees, the floor covering shall
have been laid.

            14. BUILDING CLOSURE. During all hours on legal holidays and such
other times as reasonably determined by Landlord from time to time, access to
the Building or to the halls, corridors, or stairways in the Building, or to the
Premises may be refused unless the person seeking access is known to any person
or employee of the Building in charge and has a pass or is properly identified.
The Landlord shall in no case be liable for damages for any error with regard to
the admission to or exclusion from the Building of any person. In case of
invasion, mob, riot, public excitement, or other commotion, the Landlord
reserves the right to prevent access to the Building during the continuance of
the same, by closing the doors or otherwise, for the safety of the tenants and
protection of the Building and property located therein. Anything to the
foregoing notwithstanding, Landlord shall have no duty to provide security
protection for the Building at any time or to monitor access thereto.

            15. PREMISES CLOSURE. Tenant shall see that the doors of the
Premises are closed and securely locked before leaving the Building and that all
water faucets, and water apparatus are entirely shut off before Tenant or
Tenant's employees leave the Building. Tenant shall be responsible for any
damage to the Building or other tenants caused by a failure to comply with this
rule. Tenant shall at all times keep the perimeter doors and windows to the
Premises closed.

            16. DISORDERLY CONDUCT. Landlord reserves the right to exclude or
expel from the Building any person who, in the judgment of Landlord, is
intoxicated or under the influence of liquor or drugs, or who shall in any
manner do any act in violation of any of the rules and regulations of the
Building.

            17. TENANT REQUESTS. Any requests of Tenant will be considered only
upon application at the office of the Landlord. Employees of Landlord shall not
be requested to perform any work or do anything outside of their regular duties
unless under special instructions from the Landlord.

                                      -36-
<PAGE>

            18. VENDING MACHINES. No vending machine shall be installed,
maintained or operated upon the Premises without the written consent of the
Landlord.

            19. BUILDING NAME AND ADDRESS. Landlord shall have the right,
exercisable without notice and without liability to Tenant, to change the name
and the street address of the Building of which the Premises are a part.

            20. EMERGENCY REGULATIONS. Tenant agrees that it shall comply with
all emergency regulations that may be issued from time to time by Landlord and
Tenant also shall provide Landlord with the names of a designated responsible
employee to represent Tenant in all matters pertaining to emergency regulations.

            21. TENANT ADVERTISING. Without the written consent of Landlord,
Tenant shall not use the name of the Building in connection with or in promotion
or advertising the business of Tenant except as Tenant's address.

            22. EMERGENCY INFORMATION. Tenant must provide Landlord with names
and telephone numbers to contact in case of emergency. Tenant must fill out a
tenant emergency information sheet and return it to Landlord's office within
three (3) days of occupancy.

            23. INSTALLATION OF BURGLAR AND INFORMATIONAL SERVICES. If Tenant
requires telegraphic, telephonic, burglar alarm or similar services, it shall
first obtain, and comply with, Landlord's instructions in their installation.

            24. FLOOR LOADS. Tenant shall not place a load upon any floor of the
Premises which exceeds the load per square foot, which such floor was designed
to carry and which is allowed by law. Landlord shall have the right to prescribe
the weight, size and position of all equipment, materials, furniture or other
property brought into the Building. Heavy objects shall, if considered necessary
by Landlord, stand on such platforms as determined by Landlord to be necessary
to properly distribute the weight, which platforms shall be provided at Tenant's
expense. Business machines and mechanical equipment belonging to Tenant, which
cause noise or vibration that may be transmitted to the structure of the
Building or to any space therein to such a degree as to be objectionable to
Landlord or to any tenants in the Building, shall be placed and maintained by
Tenant, at Tenant's expense, on vibration eliminators or other devices
sufficient to eliminate noise or vibration. The persons employed to move such
equipment in or out of the Building must be acceptable to Landlord. Landlord
will not be responsible for loss of, or damage to, any such equipment or other
property from any cause, and all damage done to the Building by maintaining or
moving such equipment or other property shall be repaired at the expense of
Tenant.

            25. ENERGY CONSERVATION. Tenant shall not waste electricity, water
or air conditioning and agrees to cooperate fully with Landlord to assure the
most effective operation of the Building's heating and air-conditioning and to
comply with any governmental energy-saving rules, laws or regulations of which
Tenant has actual notice, and shall refrain from attempting to adjust controls.
Tenant shall keep corridor doors closed.

            26. NO ANTENNAS. Tenant shall not install any radio or television
antenna, loudspeaker or other devices on the roof or exterior walls of the
Building. Tenant shall not interfere with radio or television broadcasting or
reception from or in the Building or elsewhere.

            27. NO SOLICITING. Canvassing, soliciting and distribution of
handbills or any other written material, and peddling in the Building are
prohibited, and Tenant shall cooperate to prevent such activities.

            28. PROHIBITED USES. The Premises shall not be used for any
improper, immoral or objectionable purpose. No cooking shall be done or
permitted on the Premises without Landlord's consent, except that use by Tenant
of Underwriters Laboratory approved equipment for brewing coffee, tea, hot
chocolate and similar beverages or use of microwave ovens for employee use shall
be permitted, provided that such equipment and use is in accordance with all
applicable federal, state, county and city laws, codes, ordinances, rules and
regulations.

            29. ENFORCEMENT OF RULES. Landlord may waive any one or more of
these Rules and Regulations for the benefit of Tenant or any other Tenant but no
such waiver by Landlord shall be construed as a waiver of such

                                      -37-
<PAGE>

Rules and Regulations in favor of Tenant, nor prevent Landlord from thereafter
enforcing any such Rules and Regulations against any or all of the tenants of
the Building.

            30. LEASE. These Rules and Regulations are in addition to, and are
made a part of, the terms, covenants, agreements and conditions of Tenant's
Lease of its Premises in the Building.

            31. ADDITIONAL RULES. Landlord reserves the right to make such other
Rules and Regulations or amendments hereto as, in its reasonable judgment, may
from time to time be needed for safety and security, for care and cleanliness of
the Building and for the preservation of good order therein. Tenant agrees to
abide by all such Rules and Regulations hereinabove stated and any additional
rules and regulations which are adopted.

            32. OBSERVANCE OF RULES. Tenant shall be responsible for the
observance of all of the foregoing rules by Tenant's employees, agents,
licensees, sublessees, assigns, and invitees.

            33. MAINTENANCE OF FIRE EXTINGUISHERS. Tenant shall maintain in the
Premises during the entire Lease Term, not less than the minimum number of fire
extinguishers required by law and Tenant shall inspect all such fire
extinguishers not less frequently than once each month to assure that the same
are fully charged and in good operational condition. Annually the Tenant shall
have all fire extinguishers inspected by an authorized and qualified inspector
who shall certify that each such fire extinguisher complies with all applicable
requirements of the NFPA. If any such fire extinguishers fail to obtain such
certification, then within three (3) business days after such failure such fire
extinguishers shall be replaced, or repaired, and re-inspected and a
certification shall be issued certifying that all such fire extinguishers comply
with all applicable requirements of the NFPA.

            34. EMERGENCY. In the event of a fire or other emergency threatening
property or health and safety, Tenant shall immediately notify the appropriate
emergency response officials and Landlord of such emergency.



















                                      -38-
<PAGE>

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----

ARTICLE I      DEFINITIONS.....................................................1
         1.1   Defined Terms...................................................1

ARTICLE II     PREMISES AND COMMON AREAS LEASED................................2
         2.1   Premises........................................................2
         2.2   Common Areas....................................................3

ARTICLE III    IMPROVEMENTS....................................................3
         3.1   Construction of Premises........................................3
         3.2   Continuance of Current Lease During Construction of
               Tenant Improvements.............................................4

ARTICLE IV     TERM............................................................4
         4.1   Initial Term....................................................4
         4.2   Notice of Commencement Date.....................................4
         4.3   Option to Extend................................................4

ARTICLE V      RENT............................................................5
         5.1   Base Rent.......................................................5
         5.2   Additional Rent.................................................6
         5.3   Late Payment....................................................6
         5.4   Security Deposit.  Intentionally deleted........................6

ARTICLE VI     ADDITIONAL RENT AND CHARGES.....................................6
         6.1   Operating Expenses..............................................6
         6.2   Adjustments....................................................11
         6.3   Tenant's Personal Property Taxes...............................11

ARTICLE VII    INSURANCE......................................................11
         7.1   Landlord's Insurance...........................................11
         7.2   Tenant's Public Liability......................................12
         7.3   Tenant's Property and Other Insurance..........................12
         7.4   Form of Insurance/Certificates.................................12
         7.5   Tenant's Failure...............................................12
         7.6   Waiver of Subrogation..........................................13
         7.7   Tenant's Properties and Fixtures...............................13
         7.8   Indemnification................................................13
         7.9   Damage to Tenant's Property....................................14

ARTICLE VIII   REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE........................................14
         8.1   Landlord Repairs and Maintenance...............................14
         8.2   Utilities and Services.........................................14
         8.3   Tenant Repairs and Maintenance.................................15
         8.4   Non-liability of Landlord......................................15
         8.5   Inspection of Premises.........................................15
         8.6   Access by Tenant...............................................15

                                      -39-
<PAGE>

ARTICLE IX     FIXTURES, PERSONAL PROPERTY AND ALTERATIONS....................15
         9.1   Fixtures and Personal Property.................................15
         9.2   Alterations....................................................16
         9.3   Liens..........................................................16

ARTICLE X      USE AND COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS...................................17
         10.1  General Use and Compliance with Laws...........................17
         10.2  Hazardous Materials............................................17
         10.3  Signs..........................................................19

ARTICLE XI     DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION.........................................19
         11.1  Reconstruction.................................................19
         11.2  Rent Abatement.................................................19
         11.3  Excessive Damage or Destruction................................19
         11.4  Uninsured Casualty.............................................19
         11.5  Waiver.........................................................19
         11.6  Mortgagee's Right..............................................20
         11.7  Damage Near End of Term........................................20

ARTICLE XII    EMINENT DOMAIN.................................................20

ARTICLE XIII   DEFAULT........................................................20
         13.1  Events of Default..............................................20
         13.2  Remedies.......................................................21
         13.3  Landlord's Default.............................................22

ARTICLE XIV    FILING OF PETITION.............................................22

ARTICLE XV     ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING......................................23
         15.1  Prohibition....................................................23
         15.2  Excess Rental..................................................24
         15.3  Scope..........................................................24
         15.4  Waiver.........................................................24
         15.5  Change in Control..............................................24

ARTICLE XVI    ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE, ATTORNMENT AND SUBORDINATION.............24
         16.1  Estoppel Certificates..........................................24
         16.2  Attornment.....................................................25
         16.3  Subordination..................................................25
         16.4  Recording......................................................25
         16.5  Subordination of Landlord's Lien...............................25

ARTICLE XVII   MISCELLANEOUS..................................................25
         17.1  Notices........................................................25
         17.2  Successors Bound...............................................26
         17.3  Waiver.........................................................26
         17.4  Subdivision and Easements......................................26
         17.5  Landlord's Reserved Rights in Common Areas.....................26
         17.6  Accord and Satisfaction........................................26
         17.7  Limitation of Landlord's Liability.............................26
         17.8  Survival.......................................................26
         17.9  Attorneys' Fees................................................27
         17.10 Captions and Article Numbers...................................27
         17.11 Severability...................................................27

                                      -40-
<PAGE>

         17.12 Applicable Law.................................................27
         17.13 Submission of Lease............................................27
         17.14 Holding Over...................................................27
         17.15 Rules and Regulations..........................................27
         17.16 Parking........................................................28
         17.17 No Nuisance....................................................28
         17.18 Broker; Agency Disclosure......................................28
         17.19 Landlord's Right to Perform....................................28
         17.20 Assignment by Landlord.........................................28
         17.21 Entire Agreement...............................................29
         17.22 Financial Covenants............................................29
         17.23 Consents.......................................................29
         17.24 Exhibits.......................................................29
         17.25 Time...........................................................29
         17.26 Authority to Bind Landlord.....................................29
         17.27 Authority to Bind Tenant.......................................29
         17.28 Interpretation.................................................29
         17.29 Excused Delays.................................................29
         17.30 Quiet Enjoyment................................................29
         17.31 Landlord's Representations and Warranties......................29

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.8
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>exh10-8_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FIFTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE DATED AUGUST 7, 2003
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.8
                                                                    ------------



                            FIFTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE

     THIS FIFTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE is written and made in duplicate on this 9th
day of July, 2001, by and between SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP. ("Landlord") and
SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC. ("Tenant"). Each may be referred to from time
to time as a "Party" and collectively as the "Parties."


                                    RECITALS

     WHEREAS, under a certain indenture of Lease (the "Lease") dated September
1, 1988, as amended by the Amendment of Lease dated July 2, 1990, the Second
Amendment of Lease dated October 28, 1994, the Third Amendment of Lease dated
February, 1998 and the Fourth Amendment of Lease dated July 1, 1998, which are,
with the Lease, incorporated by this reference, Landlord leased certain real
property in Portland, Multnomah County, Oregon, as described in the Lease to
Tenant.

     WHEREAS, Landlord and Tenant have agreed to temporarily modify Tenant's
"Base Rent", as that term is defined in the Lease; and it is the purpose of the
Fifth Amendment of Lease to set forth all the terms and conditions of the
Parties agreement in that regard.


                                    AGREEMENT

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and conditions
contained in this Fifth Amendment of Lease, the Parties covenant and agree as
follows:

     1.  RENT REDUCTION: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Lease,
     Tenant's Base Rent for the months of August, 2001 and September, 2001 will
     be $91.767.00 per month.

     2.  OTHER TERMS: Except as they may be modified in this Fifth Amendment of
     Lease, all the other terms and conditions of the Lease shall remain
     unmodified and in full force and effect.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Fifth Amendment to
Lease as of the date first hereinabove written.



LANDLORD:                                   TENANT:

SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.                  SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.


By:  Linda M. Wakefield                     By: Terry Glucoft
     ---------------------                      ---------------------
     Linda Wakefield
     Vice President                         Title: V.P.
                                                   ------------------

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.9
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>exh10-9_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SIXTH AMENDMENT TO LEASE DATED AUGUST 7, 2003
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.9
                                                                    ------------




                      SIXTH AMENDMENT TO SSI INTERNATIONAL
                            TERMINALS LEASE AGREEMENT


DATED:    August 7, 2003

BETWEEN:  SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.,
          an Oregon corporation                                    ("Lessor")

AND:      SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.,
          an Oregon corporation                                    ("Lessee")


Recitals:
- ---------

     A.   Lessor and Lessee are parties to the SSI International Terminals Lease
Agreement dated September 1, 1988 (the "Lease Agreement"), as amended by an
Amendment to Lease dated July 2, 1990, a Second Amendment to Lease dated October
28, 1994, a Third Amendment to lease dated February, 1998, a Fourth Amendment to
Lease dated July 1, 1998, and a Fifth Amendment to Lease dated July 9, 2001
(collectively, the "Lease"). Lessor and Lessee have completed the process to
determine the Annual Rent effective on September 1, 2003, pursuant to Section
3.5 of the Lease Agreement (the "Process"). In connection with the Process, the
parties have agreed on the Annual Rent effective on September 1, 2003, and the
parties have agreed to clarify and amend certain provisions of the Lease.

     B.   Capitalized terms which are used in this Sixth Amendment to SSI
International Terminals Lease Agreement (the "Amendment") which are defined in
the Lease shall have the meanings given to them in the Lease.

Agreements:
- -----------

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises of the parties
set forth in this Amendment, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:

     1.   Annual Rent. Effective on September 1, 2003, and continuing through
August 31, 2008, Annual Rent shall equal $1,834,102.00.

     2.   Fair Market Rental Value. When the Annual Rent is adjusted effective
on each Market Adjustment Date to equal the fair market rental value of the
Premises, the parties agree that the fair market rental value of the Premises
shall be determined (a) assuming the Premises are in the condition required by
the Lease, whether or not the Premises are maintained in the condition required
<PAGE>
by the Lease, and (b) with no deduction from fair market rental value relating
to the environmental condition of the Premises.

     3.   Environmental Condition of the Premises.

          3.1   Remediation. Lessee shall, no later than the expiration date of
the Term or any earlier termination of the Lease, return the Premises to Lessor
with all Hazardous Substances on, in, related to, or under the Premises
remediated or removed from the Premises as required by applicable laws,
regulations, and governmental requirements at Lessee's expense. No later than
the expiration date of the Term or any earlier termination of the Lease, Lessee
shall give to Lessor a No Further Action letter (or its equivalent) issued by
the applicable governmental authorities in a form reasonably acceptable to
Lessor.

          3.2   Forbearance. Lessor agrees not to give written notice to Lessee
to enforce Section 18.2 of the Lease Agreement unless or until one of the
following occurs: (a) the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality ("DEQ"),
the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") or other governmental entity
commences enforcement action or requires action arising from or related to the
Premises, the use of the Premises or the environmental condition on, in, under,
or related to the Premises (the "Environmental Issues"), or (b) a third party
commences litigation or other proceeding or takes other action against Lessor
regarding any Environmental Issues. Lessee shall comply, at its expense, with
the requirements of DEQ, EPA, and any other governmental agency related to the
Environmental Issues, when and as directed by DEQ, EPA, or such other
governmental agency. If Lessor enforces Section 18.2 of the Lease Agreement due
to governmental action as provided in clause (a) above in this Section 3.2,
Lessor's enforcement of Section 18.2 in that instance shall not exceed the
requirements of DEQ, EPA, or other governmental agency. If Lessor enforces
Section 18.2 of the Lease Agreement due to litigation or other proceeding or
action as provided in clause (b) above in this Section 3.2, Lessor's enforcement
of Section 18.2 in that instance shall not exceed that which will resolve the
claims of the third party commencing the litigation, proceeding or other action
whether such resolution is through a judgment, injunction, court order,
arbitration decision, settlement, or otherwise. If a third party commences
litigation or other proceeding or takes other action against Lessor regarding
any Environmental Issues, Lessor shall give Lessee prompt written notice
thereof.

     4.   No Waiver or Estoppel. Lessor and Lessee agree that either party's
election not to enforce any provisions of the Lease now or in the future does
not and will not constitute a waiver or an estoppel or otherwise affect that
party's right to do so in the future.

     5.   Consolidated Restatement of Lease. At either party's option, the
parties shall execute and deliver to each other an amended and restated lease
that incorporates within one document the Lease Agreement, all amendments to the
Lease Agreement, and this Amendment.

     6.   Additional Amendments.

          6.1   Market Adjustment.  Section 3.5.1 of the Lease is deleted and
replaced with the following:

          Effective as of each Market Adjustment Date and continuing for the
          five Rent Years immediately following such Market Adjustment Date,
<PAGE>
          Annual Rent shall be adjusted to equal the greater of (a) the fair
          market rental value of the Premises, determined in accordance with
          this Section 3.5, or (b) the Annual Rent for the Rent Year immediately
          prior to such Market Adjustment Date (the "Floor"). The Floor shall
          not apply if, as of the Market Adjustment Date, the Premises cannot be
          lawfully used for industrial purposes due to a reason not caused by
          Lessee and not related to Hazardous Substances.

          6.2   Cross-Default.  Section 19.1.5 of the Lease is deleted.

          6.3   Nondisturbance.  The following sentence is added to the end of
Section 20.1:

          Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Lease,
          this Lease shall not be subordinate to any Mortgage placed against the
          Premises after the date of this Lease unless the holder of such
          Mortgage agrees in writing that so long as Lessee is not in default
          under this Lease past any applicable cure period, Lessee's possession
          of the Premises and rights under this Lease will not be disturbed or
          otherwise affected by such holder in the event such holder acquires
          Lessor's interest in this Lease by foreclosure, deed in lieu of
          foreclosure, or other action.

          6.4   Affiliate. The phrase "51 percent of" is replaced with "51
percent or more of" in each place it appears in Section 14.1 of the Lease.

          6.5   Profits on Assignment or Sublease.  Section 14.2 of the Lease
                is deleted.

          6.6   Subordination of Landlord's Lien.  Lessor agrees to subordinate
its landlord's lien on Lessee's personal property to the lien of Lessee's lender
if the terms of such subordination are reasonably acceptable to Lessor.

          6.7   Right of First Offer. If Lessor decides to market for sale all
or any part of the Premises or the property owned by Lessor that is adjacent to
the Premises, Lessor agrees to give Lessee a one-time right of first offer as
follows: Lessor shall give Lessee written notice of Lessor's intention to market
such property (the "Offer Property") and the price at which Lessor intends to
market the Offer Property (the "Notice"). Lessor agrees not to market the Offer
Property for sale for 30 days following the date of the Notice (the "Negotiation
Period") and, if Lessee is interested in purchasing the Offer Property at the
price set forth in the Notice, Lessor agrees to negotiate in good faith with
Lessee during the Negotiation Period the terms of Lessee's purchase of the Offer
Property. If Lessor and Lessee do not enter into a binding written agreement
pertaining to the purchase and sale of the Offer Property before the end of the
Negotiation Period, Lessee's rights under this Section 6.7 shall terminate and
be of no further force or effect.
<PAGE>
     7.   Effect of Amendment. Lessor and Lessee ratify and confirm all
provisions of the Lease. Except as expressly amended by this Amendment, the
Lease remains unmodified and in full force and effect.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment effective as
of the date first set forth above.

     LESSOR:                   SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.,
                               an Oregon corporation


                               By: /s/ K. Novack
                                   ------------------------------
                               Its: CEO
                                    -----------------------------



     LESSEE:                   SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.,
                               an Oregon corporation


                               By: /s/ R. Philip
                                   ------------------------------
                               Its: CEO
                                    -----------------------------

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.10
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>exh10-10_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT DATED AUGUST 7, 2003
<TEXT>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.10
                                                                   -------------


                           PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT
                          (SACRAMENTO COUNTY PROPERTY)


DATED:    August 7, 2003

BETWEEN:  SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.,
          an Oregon corporation                                       ("Seller")

AND:      SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.,
          an Oregon corporation                                        ("Buyer")


Recitals:
- ---------

     A. Seller owns the real property legally described on the attached Exhibit
A and improvements thereon located on Folsom Boulevard in Sacramento County,
California (the "Property"). Seller leases the Property to Buyer pursuant to a
Lease Agreement between Seller and Buyer dated September 1, 1988, as amended by
an Amendment to Lease dated February 8, 1995 (together, the "Lease"). The term
of the Lease expires on August 31, 2003.

     B. Seller desires to sell the Property to Buyer and Buyer desires to
purchase the Property from Seller prior to the expiration date of the term of
the Lease, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Purchase
and Sale Agreement (the "Agreement").

Agreements:
- -----------

          In consideration of the promises of the parties set forth in this
Agreement, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the
parties agree as follows:

     1. PURCHASE AND SALE. Seller agrees to sell and Buyer agrees to purchase
the Property (together with all Seller's rights, privileges, and easements
appurtenant to the Property, including, without limitation all of Seller's
right, title, and interest in and to all minerals, oil, gas, and other
hydrocarbon substances on and under the Property, all development rights, air
rights, water, water rights, riparian rights, and water stock relating to the
Property and any rights-of-way or other appurtenances used in connection with
the beneficial use and enjoyment of the Property, and all of Seller's right,
title, and interest in and to all roads and alleys adjoining or servicing the
Property, all of Seller's interest in assignable continuing business licenses,
utility contracts, warranties, governmental approvals, building permits, and all
other intangible personal property relating to the Property, and Seller's right,
title, and interest in and to the Checo bridge crane located on the Property) in
accordance with the terms, and subject to the conditions, set forth in this
Agreement.

     2. PURCHASE PRICE. The purchase price of the Property is One Million Sixty
Four Thousand Nine Hundred Sixteen and no/100 Dollars ($1,064,916.00) (the
"Purchase Price").

                                      -1-
<PAGE>

The Purchase Price was determined by (a) multiplying $4.00 by the number of
square feet of land area of the Property, and (b) subtracting from such product
$150,000.00 due to the lack of potable water at the Property. The Purchase Price
shall be paid all in cash at closing, as described in Section 6 of this
Agreement (the "Closing").

     3. TITLE. Seller has ordered and Buyer has received and approved of a
preliminary title report dated as of May 9, 2003, issued under order no.
NCS-28991-SC (the "Title Report") from First American Title Insurance Company at
1737 North First Street, San Jose, California 95112 (the "Title Company"). All
exceptions in the Title Report, the Prior Agreements, as defined in the Lease;
all liens, encumbrances, and other exceptions to title created or suffered by
Buyer; interests of tenants or other parties in possession; liens for real
estate taxes and assessments; the preprinted exceptions and exclusions set forth
in the Title Policy; and any other exceptions to title disclosed by the public
records which would be disclosed by an inspection and/or survey of the Property
(collectively, the "Conditions to Title") are approved by Buyer.

     4. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES.

          4.1 BY SELLER. Seller represents and warrants the following to Buyer:

               4.1.1 Seller is not a "foreign person" as defined in Section 1445
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and any related
regulations.

               4.1.2 This Agreement (i) has been duly authorized, executed and
delivered by Seller, and (ii) does not violate any provision of any agreement or
judicial order to which Seller is a party or to which Seller is subject.

               4.1.3 Seller has the power and authority to enter into this
Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.

               4.1.4 Seller is duly formed, validly existing, and in good
standing under the laws of the State of Oregon.

Seller makes no, and hereby expressly disclaims, any representations and
warranties with respect to the Property, including with respect to the matters
(the "Disclosure Items") set forth in Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part
hereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement or
in any document delivered in connection herewith, Seller shall have no liability
with respect to the Disclosure Items.

          4.2 BY BUYER. Buyer represents and warrants the following to Seller:

               4.2.1 This Agreement (i) has been duly authorized, executed and
delivered by Buyer, and (ii) does not violate any provision of any agreement or
judicial order to which Buyer is a party or to which Buyer or the Property is
subject.

               4.2.2 Buyer has the power and authority to enter into this
Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.

                                      -2-
<PAGE>

               4.2.3 Buyer is duly formed, validly existing, and in good
standing under the laws of the State of Oregon.

               4.2.4 Buyer has had no contact with any broker or finder with
respect to the Property and Buyer has taken no action that may cause any broker
or finder to make any claim for a commission or other compensation related to
this transaction.

          4.3  BUYER'S INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION.

               4.3.1 Buyer acknowledges that Buyer has been in possession of
most of the Property since 1973 and most of the remainder of the Property since
1994. Buyer agrees that it has been given a full opportunity to inspect and
investigate each and every aspect of the Property, either independently or
through agents of Buyer's choosing, including, without limitation:

                    (a) All matters relating to title, together with all
governmental and other legal requirements such as taxes, assessments, zoning,
use permit requirements and building codes.

                    (b) The physical condition and aspects of the Property,
including, without limitation, the interior, the exterior, the square footage
within the improvements of the Property, the structure, seismic aspects of the
Property, the paving, the utilities, and all other physical and functional
aspects of the Property. Such examination of the physical condition of the
Property includes an examination for the presence or absence of Hazardous
Materials, as defined below. For purposes of this Agreement, "Hazardous
Materials" shall mean inflammable explosives, radioactive materials, asbestos,
polychlorinated biphenyls, lead, lead-based paint, under and/or above ground
tanks, hazardous materials, hazardous wastes, hazardous substances, oil, or
related materials, which are listed or regulated in the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (42
U.S.C. Sections 6901, et seq.), the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act of
1976 (42 U.S.C. Section 6901, et seq.), the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. Section
1251, et seq.), the Safe Drinking Water Act (14 U.S.C. Section 1401, et seq.),
the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. Section 1801, et seq.),
the and Toxic Substance Control Act (15 U.S.C. Section 2601, et seq.), the
California Hazardous Waste Control Law (California Health and Safety Code
Section 25100, et seq.), the Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act
(California Water Code Section 13000, et seq.), and the Safe Drinking Water and
Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 (California Health and Safety Code Section
25249.5, et seq.) and any other applicable federal, state or local laws
(collectively, "Laws").

                    (c) Any easements and/or access rights affecting the
Property.

                    (d) All other matters of material significance affecting the
Property.

                    (e) BUYER SPECIFICALLY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT SELLER
IS SELLING AND BUYER IS PURCHASING THE PROPERTY ON AN "AS IS WITH ALL FAULTS"
BASIS AND THAT BUYER IS NOT RELYING ON ANY REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY
KIND WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS

                                      -3-
<PAGE>

OR IMPLIED, FROM SELLER, ITS AGENTS, OR REPRESENTATIVES AS TO ANY MATTERS
CONCERNING THE PROPERTY, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION: (i) the quality, nature,
adequacy and physical condition and aspects of the Property, including, but not
limited to, the structural elements, seismic aspects of the Property,
foundation, roof, appurtenances, access, landscaping, parking facilities and the
electrical, mechanical, HVAC, plumbing, sewage, and utility systems, facilities
and appliances, or the square footage of the land or the improvements of the
Property, (ii) the quality, nature, adequacy, and physical condition of soils,
geology and any groundwater, (iii) the existence, quality, nature, adequacy and
physical condition of utilities serving the Property, (iv) the development
potential of the Property, and the Property's use, habitability,
merchantability, or fitness, suitability, value or adequacy of the Property for
any particular purpose, (v) the zoning or other legal status of the Property or
any other public or private restrictions on use of the Property, (vi) the
compliance of the Property or its operation with any applicable codes, laws,
regulations, statutes, ordinances, covenants, conditions and restrictions of any
governmental or quasi-governmental entity or of any other person or entity,
(vii) the presence of Hazardous Materials on, under or about the Property or the
adjoining or neighboring property, (viii) the quality of any labor and materials
used in any improvements on the Real Property, (ix) the condition of title to
the Property, (x) any agreements affecting the Property and (xi) the economics
of the operation of the Property.

          4.4  RELEASE.

               4.4.1 Without limiting the above, Buyer on behalf of itself and
its successors and assigns waives its right to recover from, and forever
releases and discharges, Seller, Seller's affiliates, the partners, trustees,
beneficiaries, shareholders, members, directors, officers, employees and agents
of each of them, and their respective heirs, successors, personal
representatives and assigns (collectively, the "Seller Related Parties"), from
any and all demands, claims, legal or administrative proceedings, losses,
liabilities, damages, penalties, fines, liens, judgments, costs or expenses
whatsoever (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and costs), whether
direct or indirect, known or unknown, foreseen or unforeseen, that may arise on
account of or in any way be connected with (i) the physical condition of the
Property including, without limitation, all structural and seismic elements, all
mechanical, electrical, plumbing, sewage, heating, ventilating, air conditioning
and other systems, the environmental condition of the Property and Hazardous
Materials on, under or about the Property, or (ii) any Law applicable to the
Property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Buyer does not release Seller or any of
the Seller Related Parties from any fraud or intentional misrepresentation.

               4.4.2 Buyer expressly waives the benefits of Section 1542 of the
California Civil Code, which provides as follows: "A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT
EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS
FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM MUST HAVE
MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR."

          4.5 SURVIVAL. The provisions of this Section 4 shall survive the
Closing. The covenants of the Lease, including, without limitation, the
indemnification obligations set forth in Section 18.1 of the Lease, shall
survive the termination of the Lease and shall be fully enforceable thereafter.

                                      -4-
<PAGE>

     5. RISK OF LOSS. Buyer shall be bound to purchase the Property for the full
Purchase Price as required by the terms hereof, without regard to the occurrence
or effect of any damage to the Property or destruction of any improvements
thereon or condemnation of any portion of the Property, provided that all
insurance proceeds or condemnation awards collected by Seller as a result of any
such damage or destruction or condemnation shall be paid to Buyer at Closing.
However, if the proceeds or awards have not been collected as of the Closing,
then all such proceeds or awards shall be assigned to Buyer.

     6. CLOSING.

          6.1 ESCROW INSTRUCTIONS. Upon execution of this Agreement, Seller and
Buyer shall deposit an executed counterpart of this Agreement with the Title
Company, and this instrument shall serve as the instructions to the Title
Company as the escrow holder for consummation of the purchase and sale of the
Property in accordance with this Agreement. Seller and Buyer agree to execute
such reasonable additional and supplementary escrow instructions as may be
appropriate to enable the Title Company to comply with the terms of this
Agreement; provided, however, that in the event of any conflict between the
provisions of this Agreement and any supplementary escrow instructions, the
terms of this Agreement shall control. Seller and Purchaser hereby designate
Title Company as the "Reporting Person" for the transaction pursuant to Section
6045(e) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") and the regulations
promulgated thereunder and agree to execute such documentation as is reasonably
necessary to effectuate such designation.

          6.2 CLOSING. The Closing (which shall occur when the deed conveying
the Property to Buyer is recorded and the Purchase Price is disbursed to Seller)
shall be held and delivery of all items to be made at the Closing under the
terms of this Agreement shall be made at the offices of the Title Company on a
date mutually acceptable to Seller and Buyer, but no later than August 15, 2003
(the "Closing Date"). Such date and time may not be extended without the prior
written approval of both Seller and Buyer. In addition to the other conditions
set forth in this Agreement, Buyer's obligation to purchase the Property is
subject to the satisfaction, on or before the Closing Date, of each of the
following conditions:

               6.2.1 At Closing, the Title Company shall have committed to issue
to Buyer the title insurance policy described in Section 6.4.2 of this
Agreement; and

               6.2.2 Seller having complied with, fulfilled, and performed in
all material respects, each covenant, term, and condition to be complied with,
fulfilled, or performed by Seller under this Agreement.

         6.3 DEPOSIT OF DOCUMENTS.

               6.3.1 At or before the Closing, Seller shall deposit into escrow
the following items:

                    (a) a duly executed and acknowledged deed (the "Deed") in
the form attached as Exhibit B conveying the Real Property to Buyer subject to
the Conditions of Title;

                                      -5-
<PAGE>

                    (b) an affidavit pursuant to Section 1445(b)(2) of the Code,
and on which Buyer is entitled to rely, that Seller is not a "foreign person"
within the meaning of Section 1445(f)(3) of the Code;

                    (c) a Form 593-W from Seller certifying the information
required by ss.ss. 18662 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code and the
regulations issued thereunder to establish that the transaction contemplated by
this Agreement is exempt from the tax withholding requirements of such
provisions (the "California Certificate"); and

                    (d) an assignment to Buyer of any claims and causes of
action against any third parties, if any, arising out of or relating to
defective design, defective construction, or other physical defects (including,
without limitation, environmental contamination) relating to the Property (the
"Claims"); provided, however, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Agreement, Seller reserves and retains all of its rights, title, and interest in
and to any Claims applicable to or covering any part of the Property relating to
any matter for which Seller may have liability; and provided, further, said
rights, title, and interest reserved and retained by Seller shall exist jointly
with Buyer's rights, title, and interest in and to the Claims to be assigned to
Buyer, and such rights, title, and interest in and to the Claims may be
enforceable by each of Seller and Buyer to the extent of their respective
liability or damages for any matters relating thereto.

               6.3.2 At or before Closing, Buyer shall deposit into escrow the
funds necessary to close this transaction.

          6.4 PRORATIONS AND TITLE INSURANCE.

               6.4.1 Rents paid by Buyer pursuant to the Lease for the month in
which Closing occurs shall be prorated as of the date the Deed is recorded, on
the basis of the number of calendar days in the month in question. No other
amounts shall be prorated because Buyer is obligated to pay all expenses
pertaining to the Property under the Lease. If Closing occurs on or before the
expiration date of the term of the Lease, the term of the Lease shall expire as
of the actual Closing Date.

               6.4.2 Seller shall pay the cost of furnishing to Buyer a standard
owner's policy of title insurance (an Owner's CLTA 1990 form), issued by the
Title Company, insuring fee simple title to the Property held by Buyer in the
amount of the Purchase Price, subject only to the Conditions to Title and the
usual preprinted exceptions. Buyer shall pay the costs of obtaining extended
title insurance coverage; the cost of any endorsements; any transaction fees and
excise taxes applicable to the sale; and one-half the escrow fee. Seller shall
pay one-half the escrow fee. Recording charges, transfer and documentary taxes,
and any other expenses of the escrow for the sale shall be paid by Buyer and
Seller in accordance with customary practice in the city, county and state in
which the Property is located, as determined by the Title Company. If Buyer
elects to obtain an extended coverage title policy, Seller shall execute and
deliver to the Title Company at Closing a certificate and indemnity in a form
approved by Seller and reasonably required by the Title Company, but only
containing information with respect to which Seller has actual knowledge.

                                      -6-
<PAGE>

     7. SELLER DELIVERIES. At or prior to Closing, Seller shall deliver to
Buyer, to the extent not previously provided to Buyer and only to the extent in
Seller's possession (a) copies of all architectural drawings, construction plans
and specifications, "as-built" records of the improvements, environmental
studies, inspection reports, and all topographical surveys and soil tests for or
relating to the Property in Seller's possession, (b) all other documents
relating to the condition of title to or use of the Property that are in
Seller's possession.

     8. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

          8.1 NOTICES. Any notices required or permitted to be given hereunder
shall be given in writing and shall be delivered (a) in person, (b) by certified
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or (c) by facsimile with
confirmation of receipt, and such notices shall be addressed as follows:

          To Buyer:            Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc.
                               3200 NW Yeon Avenue
                               Portland, OR  97210
                               Attention: Mr. Kelly Lang
                               Fax No.:  (503) 321-2648

          With a copy to:      Miller Nash LLP
                               3400 U.S. Bancorp Tower
                               111 SW Fifth Avenue
                               Portland, OR  97204
                               Attention:  James F. Dulcich
                               Fax No.: (503) 224-0155

          To Seller:           Schnitzer Investment Corp.
                               3200 NW Yeon Avenue
                               Portland, OR  97210
                               Attention: Susan J. Davidson
                               Fax No.:  (503) 323-2804

          And with a copy to:  Ball Janik LLP
                               101 SW Main Street, Suite 1100
                               Portland, OR  97204
                               Attention: Barbara W. Radler
                               Fax No.:  (503) 295-1058

or to such other address as either party may from time to time specify in
writing to the other party.

          8.2 ENTIRE AGREEMENT. The Lease and this Agreement contains all
representations, warranties and covenants made by Buyer and Seller and
constitutes the entire understanding between the parties hereto with respect to
the subject matter hereof of this Agreement.

                                      -7-
<PAGE>

          8.3 TIME. Time is of the essence in the performance of each of the
parties' respective obligations contained in this Agreement.

          8.4 ATTORNEYS' FEES. If either party hereto fails to perform any of
its obligations under this Agreement or if any dispute arises between the
parties to this Agreement concerning the meaning or interpretation of any
provision of this Agreement, then the defaulting party or the party not
prevailing in such dispute, as the case may be, shall pay any and all costs and
expenses incurred by the other party on account of such default and/or in
enforcing or establishing its rights hereunder, including, without limitation,
court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements.

          8.5 ASSIGNMENT. Buyer's rights and obligations under this Agreement
shall not be assignable without the prior written consent of Seller which
consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. Buyer shall
in no event be released from any of its obligations or liabilities under this
Agreement in connection with any assignment. Subject to the provisions of this
Section, this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon Buyer
and Seller and their respective successors and assigns.

          8.6 COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in two counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed an original, but both of which taken together
shall constitute one and the same instrument.

          8.7 GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed
in accordance with the laws of the State of California.

          8.8 INTERPRETATION OF AGREEMENT. The section and other headings of
this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not be construed
to affect the meaning of any provision contained in this Agreement. Where the
context so requires, the use of the singular shall include the plural and vice
versa and the use of the masculine shall include the feminine and the neuter.
The term "person" shall include any individual, partnership, joint venture,
corporation, trust, unincorporated association, limited liability company, any
other entity and any government or any department or agency thereof, whether
acting in an individual, fiduciary or other capacity.

          8.9 AMENDMENTS. This Agreement may be amended or modified only by a
written instrument signed by Buyer and Seller.

          8.10 NO RECORDING. This Agreement shall not be recorded. At Buyer's
request, a memorandum or short form of this Agreement will be acknowledged by
Buyer and Seller and recorded by Buyer.

          8.11 SURVIVAL. All representations, warranties, covenants and
agreements of Seller and Buyer contained in this Agreement and in the Lease
shall survive the Closing.

                                      -8-
<PAGE>

          The parties to this Agreement have executed this Agreement as of the
date first written above.

          Seller:                     SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP.,
                                      an Oregon corporation


                                      By:     /s/ K. Novack
                                           -------------------------------------
                                      Its:      CEO
                                           -------------------------------------


          Buyer:                      SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.,
                                      an Oregon corporation


                                      By:    /s/  R. Philip
                                           -------------------------------------
                                      Its:      CEO

                                           -------------------------------------
























                                      -9-
<PAGE>
                                LIST OF EXHIBITS


Exhibit A      Real Property Description
Exhibit B      Grant Deed
<PAGE>

                                    EXHIBIT A

                            REAL PROPERTY DESCRIPTION



                                                      ORDER NUMBER: NCS-25991-SC
                                                      PAGE NUMBER: 5


                                LEGAL DESCRIPTION


REAL PROPERTY in the unincorporated area of the County of Sacramento, State of
California, described as follows:

ALL THAT CERTAIN RECORD OF SURVEY FILED IN BOOK 12 OF SURVEYS, PAGE 29, TOGETHER
WITH ALL THAT PORTION OF THAT CERTAIN RECORD OF SURVEY FILED IN BOOK 52 OF
SURVEYS, PAGE 16, OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SACRAMENTO, COUNTY, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

BEGINNING AT THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE AFOREMENTIONED RECORD OF SURVEY FILED
IN BOOK 12 OF SURVEYS, PAGE 29; THENCE, FROM SAID POINT OF BEGINNING ALONG THE
NORTHERLY AND EASTERLY LINES OF SAID RECORD OF SURVEY AND ALONG THE SOUTHERLY
PROLONGATION OF THE EASTERLY LINE OF SAID RECORD OF SURVEY THE FOLLOWING TWO (2)
COURSES: (1) NORTH 63(degree)52'45" EAST 440.83 FEET TO THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF
SAID RECORD OF SURVEY; AND (2) SOUTH 01(degree)15'55" EAST 759.33 FEET; THENCE
SOUTH 63(degree)52'45" WEST 440.83 FEET; THENCE ALONG THE WESTERLY LINE OF SAID
RECORD OF SURVEY AND THE SOUTHERLY PROLONGATION OF SAID WESTERLY LINE, NORTH
01(degree)15'55" WEST 759.33 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.


APN: 069-0040-080-000














                                      A-1
<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT B



RECORDING REQUESTED BY
FIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY
NATIONAL COMMERCIAL SERVICES

AND WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO:
SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
POST OFFICE BOX 10047
PORTLAND, OR 97296-0047
ATTENTION: KELLY E. LANG


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   SPACE ABOVE THIS LINE FOR RECORDER'S USE ONLY

A.P.N.: 069-0040-080-000                             FILE NO.: NCS-28991-SC (RS)

THE UNDERSIGNED GRANTOR(S) DECLARE(S): DOCUMENTARY TRANSFER TAX $;
CITY TRANSFER TAX $;
SURVEY MONUMENT FEE $
[        ] COMPUTED ON THE CONSIDERATION OR FULL VALUE OF PROPERTY CONVEYED, OR
[        ] COMPUTED AO THE CONSIDERATION OR FULL VALUE LESS VALUE OF LIENS
           AND/OR ENCUMBRANCES REMAINING AT TIME OF SALE.
[        ] UNINCORPORATED AREA;[  ] CITY OF, AND


                             CORPORATION GRANT DEED


FOR A VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, RECEIPT OF WHICH IS HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGED, SCHNITZER
INVESTMENT CORPORATION, AN OREGON CORPORATION


HEREBY GRANTS TO SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC., AN OREGON CORPORATION


THE FOLLOWING DESCRIBED PROPERTY IN THE UNINCORPORATED AREA OF, COUNTY OF
SACRAMENTO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA;


ALL THAT CERTAIN RECORD OF SURVEY FILED IN BOOK 12 OF SURVEYS, PAGE 29, TOGETHER
WITH ALL THAT PORTION OF THAT CERTAIN RECORD OF SURVEY FILED IN BOOK 52 OF
SURVEYS, PAGE 16, OFFICIAL RECORDS OF SACRAMENTO, COUNTY, DESCRIBED AS FOLLOWS:

BEGINNING AT THE NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE AFOREMENTIONED RECORD OF SURVEY FILED
IN BOOK 12 OF SURVEYS, PAGE 29; THENCE, FROM SAID POINT OF BEGINNING ALONG THE
NORTHERLY AND EASTERLY LINES OF SAID RECORD OF SURVEY AND ALONG THE SOUTHERLY
PROLONGATION OF THE EASTERLY LINE OF SAID RECORD OF SURVEY THE FOLLOWING TWO (2)
COURSES: (1) NORTH 63(DEGREE)52'45" EAST 440.83 FEET TO THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF
SAID RECORD OF SURVEY; AND (2) SOUTH 01(DEGREE)15'55" EAST 759.33 FEET; THENCE
SOUTH 63(DEGREE)5245" WEST 440.83 FEET; THENCE ALONG THE WESTERLY LINE OF SAID
RECORD OF SURVEY AND THE SOUTHERLY PROLONGATION OF SAID WESTERLY LINE, NORTH
01(DEGREE)15'55" WEST 759.33 FEET TO THE POINT OF BEGINNING.


DATED: __________________











                      MALL TAX STATEMENTS TO: SAME AS ABOVE

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                      B-1
<PAGE>

A.P.N.: 069-0040-080-000      GRANT DEED - CONTINUED       FILE NO.:NCS-28991-SC
                                                                            (RS)
                                                                DATE: 07/21/2003



SCHNITZER INVESTMENT CORP., AN OREGON CORPORATION



______________________________
BY:___________________________
   ___________________________



STATE OF_______________________________)SS
COUNTY  _______________________________)
OF
ON__________________________________________________, BEFORE
ME,__________________________________________________________PERSONALLY APPEARED
___________________________________________________________, PERSONALLY KNOWN TO
ME (OR PROVED TO ME ON THE BASIS OF SATISFACTORY EVIDENCE) TO BE THE PERSON(S)
WHOSE NAME(S) IS/ARE SUBSCRIBED TO THE WITHIN INSTRUMENT AND ACKNOWLEDGED TO ME
THAT HE/SHE/THEY EXECUTED THE SAME IN HIS/HER/THEIR AUTHORIZED CAPADTY(IES), AND
THAT BY HIS/HER/THEIR SIGNATURES) ON THE INSTRUMENT THE PERSON(S), OR THE ENTITY
UPON BEHALF OF WHICH THE PERSON(S) ACTED, EXECUTED THE INSTRUMENT.

WITNESS MY HAND AND OFFICIAL SEAL.                        THIS AREA FOR OFFICIAL
                                                                   NOTARIAL SEAL

SIGNATURE
________________________________________


MY COMMISSION
EXPIRES:________________________________
















                                   PAGE 2 OF 2
<PAGE>

                                   SCHEDULE 1
                                   ----------

                                DISCLOSURE ITEMS


     Natural hazards described in the following California code sections (the
"Natural Hazard Laws") may affect the Property: (A) Govt. Code Section 8589.3
(Special Flood Hazard Area); (B) Govt. Code Section 8589.4 (Inundation Area);
(C) Govt. Code Section 51183.5 (Fire Hazard Severity Zone); (D) Public Resource
Code Section 2621.9 (Earthquake Fault Zone); (E) Public Resource Code Section
2694 (Seismic Hazard Zone); and (F) Public Resource Code Section 4136 (Wildland
Area). Seller shall execute and deliver to Buyer a Natural Hazards Disclosure
Statement with respect to the foregoing matters (the "Natural Hazards Disclosure
Statement"). Buyer acknowledges and agrees that Buyer will independently
evaluate and investigate whether any or all of such Natural Hazards affect the
Property, and Seller shall have no liabilities or obligations with respect
thereto. Buyer shall execute and deliver to Seller the Natural Hazards
Disclosure Statement. BUYER ACKNOWLEDGES AND REPRESENTS THAT BUYER HAS EXTENSIVE
EXPERIENCE ACQUIRING AND CONDUCTING DUE DILIGENCE REGARDING COMMERCIAL
PROPERTIES. THIS PROVISION IS AN ESSENTIAL ASPECT OF THE BARGAIN BETWEEN THE
PARTIES.





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>exh21-1_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1
                                                                    ------------


                        SCHNITZER STEEL INDUSTRIES, INC.
                              List of Subsidiaries

    Subsidiary                                      State of Incorporation
    ----------                                      ----------------------

Alaska Steel Co.                                            Oregon
Arion Shipping Co.                                          Delaware
Cascade Steel Rolling Mills, Inc.                           Oregon
Crawford Street Corporation                                 Oregon
Edman Corp.                                                 Oregon
General Metals of Alaska, Inc.                              Oregon
General Metals of Tacoma, Inc.                              Washington
Joint Venture Operations, Inc.                              Delaware
Karileen LLC                                                Washington
Levi's Iron and Metal, Inc.                                 Oregon
Manufacturing Management, Inc.                              Oregon
SSI International Far East Ltd.                             Korea
Mormil Corp.                                                Oregon
MRI Corporation                                             Delaware
Norprop, Inc.                                               Oregon
Oregon Rail Marketing Co.                                   Oregon
Pick and Pull Auto Dismantling, Inc.                        California
Proler Environmental Services, Inc.                         Delaware
Proler Industries, Inc.                                     Delaware
Proler International Corp                                   Delaware
Proler Properties, Inc.                                     Texas
Proler Recycling, Inc.                                      Delaware
Proler Steel, Inc.                                          Delaware
Proleride Transport Systems, Inc.                           Delaware
Schnitzer Leasing, Inc.                                     Oregon
SD&G, Inc.                                                  Nevada
SSI International, Inc.                                     Guam
SSP Arion Corp.                                             Oregon
SSP Reclamation Company                                     Oregon
White Top Properties, L.L.C.                                Washington
Willamette Forge & Machine Works, Inc.                      Oregon

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>exh23-1_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1
                                                                    ------------



                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-87008, 333-21895, and 333-100511) of Schnitzer
Steel Industries, Inc. of our reports dated October 1, 2003 relating to the
financial statements and financial statement schedule, which appear in this Form
10-K.


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
- --------------------------



Portland, Oregon
November 24, 2003
- -----------------

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31.1
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>exh31-1_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 31.1
                                                                    ------------

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Robert W. Philip, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Schnitzer Steel
     Industries, Inc.;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
     a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
     statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
     were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
     report;

3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
     information included in this report, fairly present in all material
     respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d - 15(e) for the registrant and
     have:

     (a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
          disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
          supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
          registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
          us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
          which this report is being prepared,

     (b)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
          and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures as of the end
          of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

     (c)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
          control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's
          fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably
          likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
          financial reporting; and

5.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
     our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
     the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board
     of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

     (a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
          operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
          reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

     (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
          employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
          control over financial reporting.

November 24, 2003


/s/ ROBERT W. PHILIP
- -------------------------------------
Robert W. Philip
President and Chief Executive Officer

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31.2
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>exh31-2_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 31.2
                                                                    ------------

     CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES OXLEY ACT OF 2002

I, Barry A. Rosen, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Schnitzer Steel
     Industries, Inc.;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
     a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the
     statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
     were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
     report;

3.   Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
     information included in this report, fairly present in all material
     respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d - 15(e) for the registrant and
     have:

     (a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such
          disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
          supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the
          registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
          us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in
          which this report is being prepared;

     (b)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
          and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures as of the end
          of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

     (c)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal
          control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's
          fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably
          likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
          financial reporting; and

5.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on
     our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
     the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board
     of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

     (a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
          operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
          reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

     (b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
          employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
          control over financial reporting.

November 24, 2003


/s/BARRY A. ROSEN
- -------------------------------------
Barry A. Rosen
Vice President, Finance and Treasurer, and
Chief Financial Officer

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32.1
<SEQUENCE>12
<FILENAME>exh32-1_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 32.1
                                                                    ------------

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002



In connection with the Annual Report of Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. (the
"Company") on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2003 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Robert
W. Philip, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:



(1)  The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) of the
     Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
     respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.





/s/ ROBERT W. PHILIP
- -------------------------------------
Robert W. Philip
President and Chief Executive Officer


November 24, 2003

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32.2
<SEQUENCE>13
<FILENAME>exh32-2_12345.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 32.2
                                                                    ------------

                            CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
                             AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO
                  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002



In connection with the Annual Report of Schnitzer Steel Industries, Inc. (the
"Company") on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2003 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Barry
A. Rosen, Vice President, Finance and Treasurer, and Chief Financial Officer of
the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to ss.
906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:



(1)  The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) of the
     Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

(2)  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
     respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.






/s/ BARRY A. ROSEN
- -------------------------------------
Barry A. Rosen
Vice President, Finance and Treasurer, and
Chief Financial Officer


November 24, 2003

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
