-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 UNkdpLiPG9hoR55KY8d9XvNC+svC5G5QPf+X1899ta8lXZBF7x3x/yBYLZdbeMpC
 SJYalT6jvw76Z6UTOg4NjQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950172-01-000489.txt : 20010418
<SEC-HEADER>0000950172-01-000489.hdr.sgml : 20010418
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950172-01-000489
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20001231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20010417

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			KFX INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000912365
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS [2860]
		IRS NUMBER:				841079971
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14176
		FILM NUMBER:		1604838

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3300 EAST 1ST AVENUE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 290
		CITY:			DENVER
		STATE:			CO
		ZIP:			80206
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3032932992

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3300 EAST 1ST AVENUE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 290
		CITY:			DENVER
		STATE:			CO
		ZIP:			80206
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>0001.txt
<TEXT>


              UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                 FORM 10-K


         (Mark One)
         [X]     Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                 Securities Exchange Act of 1934 For the Fiscal Year Ended
                 December 31, 2000

         [ ]     Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                 Securities Exchange Act of 1934

                       Commission file number 0-23634

                                  KFX INC.
           (Exact Name of Registrant As Specified In Its Charter)

            DELAWARE                                  84-1079971
(State or other jurisdiction of                   (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)               Identification Number)



       3300 EAST FIRST AVENUE, SUITE 290, DENVER, COLORADO USA 80206
                  (Address of Principal Executive Offices)

                               (303) 293-2992
            (Registrant's Telephone Number Including Area Code)

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

  TITLE OF EACH CLASS                     NAME OF EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
Common Stock, $.001 par value                  American Stock Exchange

      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

     Indicate  by check  mark  whether  the  Registrant  (1) has  filed all
reports  required  to be filed  by  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934  during the  preceding  12  months,  and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
cootained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

    As of April 12, 2001, the aggregate market value of the Registrant's
common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was approximately
$34,203,000. At April 12, 2001, 25,358,780 shares of common stock of the
Registrant were outstanding.





- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                             TABLE OF CONTENTS


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                                                                      Page No.
                                                                      -------
PART I
Item 1.      Business...................................................  3

Item 2.      Properties................................................. 27

Item 3.      Legal Proceedings.......................................... 28

Item 4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders........ 29

PART II

Item 5.      Market for Common Stock and Related
             Stockholder Matters........................................ 29

Item 6.      Selected Financial Data.................................... 30

Item 7.      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
             Condition and Results of Operations........................ 30

Item 7A.     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 38

Item 8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data................ 38

Item 9.      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
             Accounting and Financial Disclosures....................... 38

PART III

Item 10.     Directors and Executive Officers .......................... 39

Item 11.     Executive Compensation..................................... 39

Iuem 12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
             Management................................................. 39

Item 13.     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions............. 39

PART IV

Item 14.     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on
             Form 8-K................................................... 40

SIGNATURES   ........................................................... 43




PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

OVERVIEW

    KFX Inc. (the "Company" or "KFx"), a Delaware corporation formed in
1988, is engaged in developing and delivering various technology and
service solutions to the electric power generation industry to facilitate
the industry's (a) compliance with various air quality emission standards
on a domestic as well as worldwide basis and (b) need to lower the cost of
producing electricity, particularly domestically as the United States power
industry undergoes deregulation and is transformed into a highly
competitive business. Currently, the Company has technology solutions that
enhance the output of coal-fired electric utility boilers while
simultaneously reducing the related environmental impacts and facilitating
compliance with various environmental standards, most importantly the Clean
Air Act, as amended (the "CAA"). The Company currently considers its
business to be in two operating segments, Pegasus Technologies, Inc.
("Pegasus") and K-Fuel(TM) Technology ("K-Fuel"), both of which serve the
same end industry and provide similar benefits, but which have distinctly
different technology bases. Prior to the acquisition of Pegasus in 1998,
the Company operated only in the K-Fuel segment.

    Pegasus develops, markets, licenses and installs software that
opuimizes the combustion performance of coal-fired electric utility
boilers. Its NeuSIGHT(TM) ("NeuSIGHT") flagship product has been installed
at 17 boiler units and is under installation or is scheduled to be
installed at 11 boiler units, across the United States and Canada. In
addition, a NeuSIGHT installation is nearing completion in Poland,
installations at five additional boiler units in Poland are scheduled and
an installation at one boiler unit in China was recently initiated. The
NeuSIGHT installations underway or scheduled are expected to be completed
within approximately the next 12-18 months. NeuSIGHT utilizes an artificial
intelligence/neural network software platform licensed from a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Computer Associates International ("CA") to interface with
the process control system in coal-fired electric utility boiler units. The
license agreement provides Pegasus perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide,
exclusive rights for process monitoring and control applications in the
electric utilities industry. NeuSIGHT collects real time operating data and
builds a model of optimal boiler combustion performance, taking into
account various safety, environmental and other constraints. NeuSIGHT can
be set to optimize the reduction of various emissions, such as nitrogen
oxide ("NOx"), a boiler's heat rate (a measure of boiler operating
efficiency considering fuel consumed in comparison to electricity
generated), and/or other boiler performance measures. NeuSIGHT provides the
most benefit when operated in a closed loop mode, whereby automatic
adjustments are made to various controllable factors, such as oxygen input.
Pegasus is continuously pursuing the development of improvements to
NeuSIGHT as well as complementary new products and services. Although not
currently a product development or marketing focus, NeuSIGHT is expected to
be adaptable to various non-coal fired boiler units as well.

    The Company's K-Fuel segment has developed and begun commercialization
of its patented K-Fuel Technology, which is a process technology that uses
heat and pressure to physically and chemically transform high-moisture,
low-energy value coal and other organic feedstocks into a low-moisture,
high-energy solid clean fuel ("K-Fuel"). The K-Fuel Technology is generally
regerred to as a coal beneficiation process, which refers to processes
intended to produce, using run-of-mine coal as feedstock, fuels with
improved energy and environmental values. The principal benefit of the
K-Fuel Technology is that the fuel produced from the process can facilitate
the efforts of electric power producers and other large-scale users of coal
to meet the clean air standards imposed by the CAA. Based on various
analyses, the environmental benefits of burning K-Fuel versus most other
coals appear to include significant reductions in emissions of NOX, sulfur
dioxide (SO2), carbon dioxide (CO2), mercury and chlorine. KFx plans to
license K-Fuel Technology domestically and internationally to various
parties wishing to construct and operate K-Fuel production facilities and
accordingly, earn related license fee income and product sale or production
royalty income. In addition, KFx will consider negotiating for equity
interests in selected K-Fuel production facilities operated by K-Fuel
licensees in connection with its grant of a K-Fuel license. K-Fuel
operations are conducted through KFx Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries.

    Summary financial information about each segment for 2000, 1999 and
1998 follows; for additional segment information see Note 17 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

            2000                           Pegasus          K-Fuel
            ----                           -------          ------
            Operating Revenues           $ 1,894,994    $     229,776
            Operating Loss               $(4,131,294)   $  (2,216,959)
            Total Assets                 $ 3,242,295    $   3,278,160

            1999
            ----
            Operating Revenues           $ 1,536,884    $   1,313,916
            Operating Loss               $(3,266,584)   $  (1,055,085)
            Total Assets                 $ 3,457,574    $   9,052,687

            1998
            ----
            Operating Revenues           $ 1,328,491    $     892,094
            Operating Loss               $(1,234,038)   $  (1,674,101)
            Total Assets                 $ 3,230,954    $  11,843,799

     The Company will continue to consider various options to expand its
business by adding other solutions (including technologies, products and
services) to meet (a) the needs of the electric power industry as it is
transformed by deregulation into a highly competitive industry and (b) the
increasingly stringent environmental standards triggered by indications of
global warming and other environmental concerns.

     Although the Company is pursuing various international opportunities
in both segments, during each of the three years ended December 31, 2000,
most of the Company's operating activities were conducted domestically.
However, Pegasus generated revenues from Canadian customers approximating
$119,000, $224,000 and $166,000 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.


PEGASUS

General

    In March 1998, the Company purchased a 60% interest in Pegasus
Technologies Limited ("Pegasus Limited"), an Ohio limited liability
company. Pegasus Limited had developed a software technology that optimizes
the performance of coal-fired electric utility boilers. Pegasus' flagship
product, NeuSIGHT, provides two primary benefits: improved combustion
performance and reduction in NOX emissions. NOX is a primary component of
ground level smog. See "Market Drivers--Domestic Market." Additional
benefits of NeuSIGHT include (a) improvements in boiler efficiency (heat
rate), which translate into lower fuel costs, as well as lower emissions of
SO2 and CO2; (b) an increase in gross generating capacity, providing more
electricity for the power company to sell; (c) lower carbon in the ash
waste by-product, which can convert a related waste product disposal cost
into a marketable ash product; and (d) improvements in opacity, which
refers to the visible exhaust discharged from an emissions stack.

    NeuSIGHT dynamically models in real time the operating conditions of
the electric utility boiler combustion process and makes alterations to
operating variables, which improve boiler heat-rate performance, reduce
harmful emissions and lower fuel costs. Maximum benefits are achieved by
allowing NeuSIGHT to operate in closed loop mode wherein its alterations to
operating variables are automatically invoked.

    In August 1998, the Company formed Net Power Solutions, LLC ("NPS"), a
Delaware limited liability company, primarily to provide marketing and
sales services to Pegasus Limited. From late 1998 through November 30,
1999, NPS hired and trained a marketing and sales staff, developed
marketing programs and materials and generally performed the sales and
marketing for Pegasus Limited. Pursuant to an agreement dated December 13,
1999, the members of Pegasus Limited and NPS including the Company,
exchanged their membership interests in Pegasus Limited and NPS for shares
of common stock of a new company, Pegasus Technologies, Inc., effective
November 30, 1999. At November 30, 1999 and December 31, 1999, KFx held 75%
of the outstanding common stock of Pegasus Technologies, Inc., with the 25%
balance held by Pegasus management. Hereafter, references to Pegasus
include the activities of Pegasus Limited and NPS prior to this exchange,
as well as the subsequent activities of Pegasus Technologies, Inc. and its
subsidiaries.

    On March 3, 2000, KFx and Pegasus closed a transaction with Kennecott
Energy Company ("Kennecott Energy") resulting in (a) the sale of 4% of the
common stock of Pegasus held by KFx ("Pegasus Common Stock") to Kennecott
Energy for $1,000,000, (b) the issuance by Pegasus to Kennecott Energy, in
exchange for $500,000, of newly authorized Pegasus 6% cumulative
convertible preferred stock ("Pegasus Preferred Stock") equivalent to an
additional 2% interest in Pegasus on an as converted basis, (c) the joint
development by KFx, Pegasus and Kennecott Energy of a work plan for
enhancements to NeuSIGHT, new product development and the completion of
other tasks designed to improve the performance of Pegasus and trigger
additional purchases of Pegasus Preferred Stock by Kennecott Energy of up
to $3,500,000, for an additional interest in Pegasus up to 14%, on an as
converted basis, by December 31, 2004 or earlier and (d) the conversion of
secured debt owed by Pegasus to KFx, totaling $3,630,000, into Pegasus
Preferred Stock, at the same price as provided to Kennecott Energy. Through
December 31, 2000, Kennecott Energy had exercised its rights to purchase
additional Pegasus Preferred Stock equivalent to an additional 6% as
converted interest in Pegasus, for $1,500,000. In addition, during the
fourth quarter of 2000, KFx purchased Pegasus Common Stock equivalent to an
aqproximate 2.25% interest from one of the Pegasus founders in connection
with his resignation. At December 31, 2000, the ownership of Pegasus on an
as converted basis was approximately as follows: KFx--70.7%, Pegasus
founders--16.5% and Kennecott Energy--12.8%. Through April 12, 2001,
Kennecott Energy has exercised its rights to purchase additional Pegasus
Preferred Stock equivalent to a 2 % as converted interest in Pegasus, for
$500,000. Kennecott Energy had the right to sell the Pegasus Common Stock
back to KFx at any time before March 3, 2001, which right was not exercised
and has expired.

    On February 9, 2001, KFx closed a transaction with Evergreen Resources,
Inc. ("Evergreen") under which KFx sold to Evergreen a portion of its
Pegasus Preferred Stock investment in Pegasus, representing an approximate
8/8% as converted interest in Pegasus, for $1,500,000. KFx is obligated to
repurchase this preferred stock for $2 million plus 6% of the repurchase
price per annum on January 31, 2002, or earlier upon the occurrence of
certain events, such as a change in control. Evergreen can elect to defer
KFx's required repurchase date to January 31, 2003, which will trigger a
right for it to purchase from KFx an additional interest in Pegasus. In
certain circumstances, Evergreen can elect to exchange this interest in
Pegasus, valued at $2 million plus 6% per annum, and any subsequently
acquired interest in Pegasus, for common stock of KFx at $3.65 per share,
subject to certain adjustments. In addition, Evergreen was provided with a
five-year warrant to purchase 1,000,000 shares of KFx Common Stock at $3.65
per share, subject to certain adjustments.

    As a result of the additional investments of Kennecott Energy in
Pegasus Preferred Stock through April 12, 2001, KFx's sale of a portion of
ius Pegasus Preferred Stock on February 9, 2001 to Evergreen and KFx's
sales of Pegasus Preferred Stock to other private investors, the ownership
of Pegasus at April 13, 2001 is approximately as follows: KFx--57.9%,
Pegasus founders--16.0%, Kennecott Energy--14.9%, Evergreen Resources,
Inc.--8.8% and other private investors--2.4%.

    In connection with the March 2000 transaction, Pegasus and Kennecott
Energy also formed a Colorado limited liability company, Net Power
Solutions, LLC ("Net Power Solutions"), to facilitate the combined
marketing, on a non-exclusive basis, of technologies, products and services
that can be provided by Kennecott Energy, Pegasus, KFx and other potential
parties. Pegasus and Kennecott Energy own Net Power Solutions equally.
Since its formation, Net Power Solutions has been involved in various joint
marketing activities involving Kennecott Energy, Pegasus and KFx, but has
incurred no expenses nor generated any revenues.

    In the fourth quarter of 2000, Pegasus introduced the enhanced NeuSIGHT
2001 version of its flagship product. NeuSIGHT 2001 features simple
installation and configuration that lets the user drag and drop icons onto
a design platform to configure its own system. During 2000, 1999 and 1998
Pegasus research and development expenses totaled $614,000, $336,000 and
$138,000, respectively.

    As of April 13, 2001, Pegasus has firm unfilled sales commitments
(backlog) for NeuSIGHT licenses and related installations at an estimated
contract value of $2,522,000, which are generally expected to be filled
within approximately the next 12-18 months. At April 14, 2000, such backlog
approximated $2,549,000.

    During 2000, the following individual Pegasus clients accounted for
greater than 10% each of consolidated revenues: Ameren/Union Electric--30%,
Dairyland Power Cooperative--18% and American Electric Power--12%. During
1999, two individual Pegasus clients accounted for greater than 10% each of
coosolidated revenues: Carolina Power & Light--19% and Houston Light &
Power--11%. During 1998, three individual clients accounted for greater
than 10% each of consolidated revenues, Houston Light & Power--22%,
Ameren/Union Electric--13% and Cinergy--10%. Although the existence of such
major clients is partly a result of Pegasus' limited customer base,
management also believes it is an indication of the level of client
satisfaction with Pegasus products and services since these relationships
involve multiple license and installation contracts and two of the same
clients are included in two of the three years of statistics.


Strategic Relationships

    In March 1999, Pegasus executed an agreement with Science Applications
International Corporation (SAIC) providing SAIC with certain exclusive
rights to install NeuSIGHT software in North America, as a subcontractor to
Pegasus. Under the terms of the agreement, SAIC has the right to perform
NeuSIGHT installations related to Pegasus license sales that Pegasus elects
not to perform with its own staff. Subject to certain termination
provisions covering performance and other matters, the agreement expires
after SAIC completes 30 installations of NeuSIGHT or three years, whichever
occurs first. In exchange for certain services, investments and preferred
billing rates by SAIC, the agreement also provides for an equal sharing
between Pegasus and SAIC of a defined measure of Pegasus gross profits
derived from the installation services provided by SAIC to Pegasus
customers under the agreement. Through December 31, 2000, no payments by
Pegasus or related accruals have been required under these profit sharing
provisions. On April 19, 2000, SAIC assigned its rights and obligations
under this agreement to one of its affiliates, Data Systems & Solutions,
LMC ("DS&S").

    During the first quarter of 2000, Pegasus entered into value added
reseller ("VAR") agreements with Babcock & Wilcox ("B&W") and ABB Centrum
("ABB") providing for certain minimum purchases of NeuSIGHT licenses from
Pegasus and providing B&W and ABB certain resale rights. Later in 2000, the
B&W VAR agreement was amended to provide only for joint marketing
activities and the provision of B&W installation personnel at preferred
rates. In addition, in connection with the final testing of an installation
for ABB at the Jawarzno power station in Poland, various previous
agreements with ABB were revised to provide ABB with the exclusive resale
rights in Poland and $500,000 of minimum purchases of NeuSIGHT by February
27, 2002. No revenue has been recognized from these agreements through
December 31, 2000.

    Late in 2000, Pegasus took two steps to enter the market in the
People's Republic of China ("China"). During the third quarter of 2000,
Pegasus signed a letter of intent for the installation of its flagship
NeuSIGHT product at four coal-fired boiler units, with a total generating
capacity of 1200 megawatts, at the Xibanpo power station in China, near
Beijing. In late November 2000, a firm order was received for the first of
these installations, which was recently initiated. During the fourth
quarter of 2000, Pegasus entered into a license agreement with BITCO
Enterprises ("BITCO"), providing BITCO and certain affiliates with the
exclusive right to market Pegasus' NeuSIGHT technology in the People's
Republic of China in exchange for a nonrefundable $300,000 fee and future
license fees. Pegasus and BITCO are negotiating the final terms of this
agreement, which are to include minimum performance thresholds that must be
met by BITCO in order to maintain the exclusive status. No revenue has been
recognized from these agreements through December 31, 2000.

    Pegasus will pursue additional VAR and similar arrangements with
appropriate parties as a means to quickly and cost effectively gain access
to potential customers, particularly in foreign countries.

Intellectual Property

    NeuSIGHT utilizes a neural network technology licensed from a
subsidiary of CA under an agreement which, among other terms, grants
Pegasus a perpetual, irrevocable, world-wide, exclusive right and license
for use in process monitoring and control applications in the electric
utilities industry. Payments are made to CA for each neural network license
sold, one of which is required for each NeuSIGHT installation. Through
August 1999, CA was also a 15% owner of Pegasus, at which time CA sold such
interest to KFx in exchange for 527,000 common shares of KFx; see Note 12
to the consolidated financial statements. The programming code that
constitutes NeuSIGHT is a trade secret.

Competition

    Pegasus faces direct competition from approximately six companies that
offer software products providing combustion optimization benefits to the
emectric power industry.In addition, Pegasus faces indirect competition
from a similar number of companies that offer control systems used to
oqerate utility boiler units, which contain certain combustion optimization
features. Management believes the NeuSIGHT software solution offers several
competitive advantages over competitors' offerings. Most significantly, in
a survey completed in December 1998 by Resource Data International, a
subsidiary of the Financial Times, NeuSIGHT has been documented as
providing greater benefits than competing products in the areas of NOx
reduction and heat rate improvement. In addition, NeuSIGHT has demonstrated
ao ability to operate in closed-loop supervisory mode for extended time
periods without intervention.

    NeuSIGHT's neural network model is considerably more extensive and
therefore more effective than competing products, through its ability to
manage higher volumes of input variables (up to 7 times the level of
competing products). While NeuSIGHT's neural network models are
sophisticated and complex, the software has a unique capability to retrain
the model automatically as operating conditions change in the plant.
Competing product models are generally static and require periodic
retuning, making them more costly to maintain and less effective over time.
In management's opinion, these and other features provide a much greater
ability for the software to adapt to changing environmental conditions,
equipment degradation, instrument calibration drift, and operating
variances.

    In the opinion of management, compared with competing companies,
Pegasus provides more extensive implementation and training programs that
result in an end product more closely correlated to the actual operating
conditions of the specific boiler unit. Pegasus is focused exclusively on
the needs of the electric power generation industry rather than serving
various industries with differing needs. This focus, coupled with the
expertise of its personnel in this market, enable Pegasus to deliver
somutions that provide significantly greater reductions in NOx, higher
levels of operating efficiency and other benefits not provided by
competitors. Competing products tend to emphasize price as their basis of
comparison, while Pegasus is focused on cost benefit analysis and return on
investment. While Pegasus believes it is the leader in the industry, based
on the number of installed systems in the electric power generation
industry, certain direct competitors may have greater financial and other
resources than Pegasus. In addition, Pegasus may face increased or new
competition from indirect competitors and other vendors to the electric
power generation industry, many of which have significantly greater
financial and other resources than Pegasus.


K-FUEL TECHNOLOGY

General

    The K-Fuel Technology is comprised of three groups, or series, of
patents. The Series "A" and Series "B" Technology patents are based on hot
gas and steam heat-transfer mediums, respectively. The Series "C"
Technology is based on a nitrogen heat-transfer medium. The principal
difference between the Series "A" and "B" Technologies and the Series "C"
Technology is that Series "C" is based on a more simplified design with
respect to the manufacturing equipment and facilities, resulting in lower
caqital costs. The Company expects the Series "C" Technology to be
primarily used for coal fuel product-manufacturing facilities. The Series
"A" and "B" Technologies can be used for coal fuel product facilities, as
well as renewable resource fuel product manufacturing facilities (e.g.,
bagasse, municipal solid waste, sludge and wood waste). The Series "A" and
"B" Technology patents were developed by Edward Koppelman and assigned to a
predecessor of the Company under a 1984 research and development contract
(the "R&D Contract") with the Company. The Company purchased the Series "C"
Technology patent directly from Mr. Koppelman after completion of the R&D
Contract in 1995 for $1.3 million. The Company is currently focusing its
commercialization efforts on the development of projects for the
manufacture of coal fuel product using the Series "C" Technology. To date,
one commercial-scale K-Fuel manufacturing facility has been constructed,
which began operations in April 1998 and suspended operations in June 1999.
See "Strategic Relationships--Thermo Ecotek Corporation and KFx Fuel
Partners" in this section. The development of future K-Fuel manufacturing
facilities is expected to result primarily from the K-Fuel, LLC, joint
venture with Kennecott Energy. See "Strategic Relationships-Kennecott
Energy Company" in this section.

    In the Series "C" process, raw coal is crushed and screened before it
is introduced into a steel alloy processing vessel that is then pressurized
and heated indirectly using vertical tube heat exchangers. Nitrogen,
serving as an inert, non-oxidizing heat-transfer medium, is admitted to the
tube side of the processing vessel at a pressure of approximately 125
pounds per square inch ("psi"). After the nitrogen is inserted, it picks up
heat from the walls of the tube and gradually expands to approximately 800
psi. Water is released from the coal during this expansion period. When the
temperature in the tubes reaches in excess of 520 degrees Fahrenheit, any
water remaining in the coal turns to steam and continues to process the raw
coal. When the temperature of the coal reaches approximately 650 to 740
degrees Fahrenheit, the process is complete. The process takes 30 to 40
minutes to complete from initial loading of the raw coal into the
processing vessels to final discharge of finished K-Fuel product.

    The principal benefit of the K-Fuel Technology in the United States is
that the fuel produced from the process can facilitate the efforts of
electric power producers, manufacturers and other large-scale users of coal
to meet the clean air standards imposed by the CAA. Based on various
independent and Company analyses, the environmental benefits of burning
K-Fuel versus most other coals appear to include significant reductions in
emissions of NOx, SO2, CO2, mercury and chlorine. K-Fuel is the first
beneficiated coal product that has not exhibited significantly greater
tendency for spontaneous combustion than run-of-mine Powder River Basin
("PRB") coal. In addition, K-Fuel has been demonstrated to increase gross
power generation, reduce fuel-pulverizing requirements, blend well with
other coals and flow well through coal handling systems. K-Fuel has
exhibited a level of dustiness that requires the use of dust suppression
equipment on site at most domestic coal-fired power plants.

    See "Strategic Relationships-Kennecott Energy Company" in this section
for a discussion of the demonstration of improvements to the K-Fuel process
developed during 2000 by the joint venture between KFx and Kennecott
Energy.

    In May 1998, the Southern Research Institute conducted a test burn of
apqroximately 10 tons of K-Fuel, which was also overseen by a technical
services affiliate of Kennecott Energy. The results of this test burn are
summarized in the table below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                         Btu                  Emissions (ppm)
                                    (As Received)      (Corrected to 3% O2 Dry Basis)
                                    -------------      ------------------------------
                                                          NOX                    SOX
                                                          ---                    ---
<S>                                    <C>                <C>                    <C>
      K-Fuel......................     11,703             142                    173
      Dry Fork Subbituminous......      8,903             172                    215
      Lone Mountain Bituminous....     13,315             265                    530
</TABLE>


    In February 1999, the first commercial burn of K-Fuel was completed. A
unit train (approximately 12,000 tons of K-Fuel produced at the KFP
Facility; see "Strategic Relationships--Thermo Ecotek Corporation and KFx
Fuel Partners" in this section) was burned at Indiana-Kentucky Electric
Corporation's Clifty Creek generating station in southern Indiana. A fuel
blend of approximately 60% K-Fuel, with the balance consisting of a blend
of high-Btu, high and low-sulfur Eastern coals, replaced relatively
low-Btu, low-sulfur southern PRB coal in one of the station's boiler units.
Results of the test burn indicate that K-Fuel appeared to produce: a) a
reduction in NOx emissions while maintaining full load yet reducing
auyiliary power, b) no unusual slagging or fouling of the boiler, c) a
reduction in the fuel pulverizing operations, d) no spontaneous combustion
and e) an improvement in boiler efficiency. Indiana-Kentucky Electric's
fuel is procured by American Electric Power.

    The results from this commercial scale burn at Clifty Creek generally
confirm the results of the test burn performed by the Southern Research
Institute. The Company believes that K-Fuel produced a reduction in SO2 and
CO2 emissions but the plant instrumentation precluded clear quantification.
The handling characteristics of K-Fuel were acceptable with proper use of
the power station's existing dust suppressant system. Nevertheless, KFx
continues to work to improve the handling characteristics of K-Fuel.

    One of the Company's subsidiaries, KFx Technology, Inc., ("KFxT") has
performed research and development services related to the K-Fuel
technology under a contract with Western Research Institute ("WRI"), a
non-profit research organization based in Laramie, Wyoming. During 2000,
revenues from this contract approximated 11% of consolidated revenues. Such
revenues in 1999 were less than 10% of consolidated revenues. During 1998,
revenues from this contract approximated 15% of consolidated revenues.
Excluding depreciation, the costs under this contract approximated the
remated revenues and totaled $230,000, $117,000, and $344,000 in 2000, 1999
aod 1998, respectively.

    Work under the most recent contract with WRI has been completed and
there is no commitment for an additional contract from WRI or other
potential customers of KFxT. Accordingly, KFxT staff was reduced in the
first quarter of 2001, pending identification of revenues from WRI or other
parties.


Strategic Relationships

Kennecott Energy Company and K-Fuel, LLC

    In April 1996, the Company entered into a joint venture  agreement (the
"Kennecott Agreement") with a wholly-owned  subsidiary of Kennecott Energy.
Tie joint  venture,  a Delaware  limited  liability  company  named K-Fuel,
L.L.C. ("K-Fuel, LLC"), is intended to be the vehicle for further technical
advancement and the commercialization of business opportunities arising out
of the K-Fuel Technology, including research and development, sublicensing,
marketing and consulting,  but not including the construction of facilities
to produce K-Fuel products on a commercial basis  ("Commercial  Projects").
Any Commercial  Projects will be constructed by separate  entities in which
Kennecott  Energy,  the Company,  both or third parties will have an equity
ioterest and which will be granted a sublicense  from K-Fuel,  LLC, for the
K-Fuel  Technology.  In 1996,  Kennecott Energy paid a fee of $1,000,000 to
tie Company to enter into the K-Fuel,  LLC, joint venture. In June 1999, in
connection with certain  amendments to the Kennecott  Agreement,  Kennecott
Energy  purchased a K-Fuel  license and paid KFx an initial  license fee of
$1,000,000  for a minimum plant size of 666,667 tons of annual  capacity to
be located at a site of its choice.  This license is expandable to a larger
capacity  plant,  upon the payment of additional  initial  license fees. In
addition,  Kennecott Energy paid to KFx an additional $1,000,000, which KFx
invested   in   K-Fuel,   LLC  to   support   the  next   phase  of  K-Fuel
commercialization, as required by the June 1999 amendments to the Kennecott
Agreement.  Any technology  related to the Company's  technology  developed
through the work plan funded by the $1,000,000  investment in K-Fuel,  LLC,
will be owned by Kennecott  Energy and  licensed  free of charge to K-Fuel,
LLC. The non-refundable payment related to the K-Fuel license accounted for
35% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 1999.

    Under the work plan funded by the June 1999 investment in K-Fuel, LLC,
an improved K-Fuel process was demonstrated in late 2000, as announced in
early February 2001. The principal differences from the K-Fuel Series C
process previously used are continuous operations, lower temperatures, and
the absence of superheat from the system. The resulting product, which in
the tests was produced from Powder River Basin ("PRB") coals, is low in
SO2, NOX, mercury and chlorine, similar to K-Fuel. Analysis from this work
plan indicates that an improved process can possibly be designed to produce
the new fuel within potentially attractive economic constraints and that
the K-Fuel production process proposed as a result of the project should be
more reliable than was the KFP Facility when operated by Thermo Ecotek
Corporation (See "Strategic Relationships--Thermo Ecotek Corporation and
KFx Fuel Partners" in this section) and have lower capital and operating
costs than any previous K-Fuel plant design.

    The heating value of the new fuel as tested is approximately 11,200 to
11,600 Btu's per pound. Upon combustion, the new fuel produces
approximately 20% lower NOX emissions and lower mercury emissions, as
compared to the PRB feedstock coal (already the lowest mercury content coal
naturally available), and SO2 emissions well below the 1.0 lb per million
Btu limit contained in Phase II of the CAA.

    In addition, K-Fuel, LLC believes that there may be considerable
advantages to blending the new product and raw PRB coal. The dust and
self-heating behaviors of a blend of the new product and raw PRB coal
appear to be similar to raw PRB coal, without the need for oil or other
treatment. The blend retains proportional NOX, SO2 and mercury reduction
benefits. Therefore a commercial plant for the new product may be leveraged
to provide considerably higher volumes of blended product for the market
place.

    K-Fuel, LLC is conducting studies concerning appropriate means to
further test the new process and design facilities for production. As of
April 13, 2001, there were no commitments to construct any K-Fuel plants.

    The Company has a 51% percent interest in K-Fuel, LLC, and Kennecott
Eoergy has a 49% interest. Due to certain participatory voting rights
provided to Kennecott Energy in the Kennecott Agreement, as amended, the
Company does not control K-Fuel, LLC. At such time as entities in which
Keonecott Energy has an equity interest have placed into service Commercial
Projects with a collective design capacity equal to or in excess of 3
million tons per year ("TPY") of K-Fuel product, Kennecott Energy's
interest in K-Fuel, LLC, will increase to 51% and the Company's interest
will decrease to 49%. During 2000, 1999 and 1998, K-Fuel, LLC incurred
related research and development costs totaling approximately $482,000,
$23,000 and $134,000, respectively.

    In connection with the Kennecott Agreement, the Company granted K-Fuel,
LLC, an exclusive, worldwide, fully-paid, royalty-free right and license
(including the right to grant sublicenses) to and under the K-Fuel
Technology, except to the extent that it pertains to the beneficiation or
restructuring of coal or coal-related feedstocks and related improvements
covered under the Heartland Fuels Corporation License (as defined below)
(the "KFx License"). In addition, Heartland Fuels Corporation, an 85%-owned
subsidiary of the Company, granted K-Fuel, LLC, an exclusive, worldwide,
fully-paid, royalty-free right and license (including the right to grant
sublicenses) to and under the Series "A" and Series "B" K-Fuel Technology,
as it pertains to the beneficiation or restructuring of coal or
coal-related feedstocks (the "HFC License"). Both the KFx License and the
HFC License specify minimum terms and provisions for any sublicenses
granted by K-Fuel, LLC, to third parties.

    Under the Kennecott Agreement, as amended in June 1999, with respect to
future Commercial Projects to be licensed by K-Fuel, LLC to entities wholly
or partially owned by Kennecott Energy, the Company is entitled to a
one-time license fee approximating $3 per ton of annual design capacity of
each project, times Kennecott's percentage of beneficial ownership, to be
paid one-half at the time the license is granted, with the remaining
one-half paid over a period of three years beginning when the project
begins commercial operations. The Company will also receive a production
royalty, to be paid each calendar quarter, depending on certain levels of
the project's selling price per ton of coal product. With respect to the
non-Kennecott Energy portion of production capacity and production of
Commercial Projects in which Kennecott Energy has less than 100% beneficial
ownership, the Company is entitled to similar, but higher, license fees and
royalty payments. Such higher license fees and royalty payments also apply
to 100% of the production capacity and production of Commercial Projects in
which Kennecott Energy has no beneficial ownership. In addition, the
Company will be entitled to additional payments based on a percentage of
the excess of (1) annual cash revenue from each project, or (2) annual
pre-tax cash operating costs of each project plus an annual capital charge
related to each project. Kennecott Energy has the right to fund 100% of
Commercial Projects that it approves, subject, however, to the Company's
right to fund up to 50% of such projects on the same economic terms as
Kennecott Energy. The Company has no obligation to fund any Commercial
Project.


Thermo Ecotek Corporation and KFx Fuel Partners

    In August 1995, the Company entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement
(the "Stock Purchase Agreement"), with Thermo Ecotek Corporation ("TCK"), a
Massachusetts-based company traded on the American Stock Exchange. At that
time the Company and TCK also entered into a separate agreement to
construct and operate a 500,000 TPY commercial-scale K-Fuel production
facility.

    Under the Stock Purchase Agreement, in 1995 TCK purchased 3 million
shares of KFx Common Stock for $6 million, or approximately 14% of the
outstanding KFx Common Stock as of December 31, 1996, and in 1997 purchased
an additional 1.25 million shares of KFx Common Stock for $2.5 million,
increasing its ownership to approximately 18% of the outstanding KFx Common
Stock. As part of the transaction TCK was also granted warrants to purchase
the number of shares of KFx Common Stock that, when added to all shares
owned by TCK on the exercise date, would be sufficient to give TCK 51% of
the outstanding KFx Common Stock, on a fully diluted basis. On May 9, 2000,
TCK cancelled these warrants in connection with certain other agreements,
as discussed below.

    In August 1995, the Company and TCK, acting through respective
wholly-owned subsidiaries, formed KFx Fuel Partners, L.P., a Delaware
limited partnership ("KFP") and began construction of a 500,000 TPY K-Fuel
coal production facility (the "KFP Facility") near Gillette, Wyoming, using
the Company's Series "C" Technology. The Company owned a 5% interest in
KFP, with the remaining 95% owned by TCK. TCK was the managing general
partner for KFP.

    KFP began operations at the KFP facility in April 1998 and completed a
successful test burn in May 1998 and a successful commercial burn in
February 1999, as discussed above. The KFP facility operated and produced
commercially salable product in 1998 and 1999 and KFP addressed certain
problems previously encountered, including a 1996 fire at the facility and
certain construction problems, including issues relating to the flow of
materials within the facility and the design and operation of certain
pressure release equipment. Nevertheless, KFP continued to experience
certain problems relating to tar and fines residue build-up within the
system during production and product quality issues related to product
dusting. On May 24, 1999, TCK announced that in connection with certain
stsategic restructuring decisions made by TCK and its parent, Thermo
Electron Corporation, it had decided to hold for sale its investment in the
KFP Facility and record charges related thereto. Further, TCK in June 1999
suspended operations at the KFP Facility and K-Fuel is not currently being
produced.

    As of May 9, 2000, the Company finalized a series of agreements with
various parties intended to initiate the redevelopment of the KFP Facility.
Pursuant to the agreements (a) a subsidiary of Black Hills Corporation
(BKH) purchased the KFP Facility and received 2 million shares of KFx
Common Stock previously held by TCK in exchange for the assumption of the
reclamation liability associated with the KFP Facility, (b) BKH was given
the right to one seat on KFx's board of directors (which, through April 12,
2001, BKH has declined to exercise), and KFx granted BKH a warrant to
puschase 1,300,000 shares of KFx Common Stock at $3.65 per share, subject
to certain adjustments, (c) KFx relinquished its 5% interest in KFP to TCK
and provided certain releases to TCK in exchange for $100,000 in cash,
$150,000 in proceeds of an unsecured note payable to TCK on June 10, 2000,
and future cash payments estimated at $1,400,000 (all of which were
received by August 3, 2000), (d) KFx received certain real and personal
property from TCK, (e) TCK sold the remaining 2,250,000 shares of KFx
Common Stock it owned to private investors and canceled the warrants it
held to purchase a control position in KFx's Common Stock. The carrying
value of the Company's investment in KFP was written down effective
December 31, 1999 by $1,800,000, to the $1,500,000 expected cash proceeds
to KFx. In addition, the estimated $2,200,000 value of the warrants issued
to BKH was charged to expense effective December 31, 1999; the warrants
were issued at the closing on May 9, 2000.

    KFx and BKH are proceeding to finalize plans and secure the necessary
capital to rectify certain design flaws in the balance-of-plant systems in
order to restart the KFP Facility and produce K-Fuel. The cost to implement
these plans is currently estimated at $2 million to $4 million. The Company
has no ownership interest in the KFP Facility and has no obligation to fund
any capital or other costs necessary for its restart.

    During 1998, certain support services provided by a subsidiary of KFx
to KFP approximated 25% of consolidated revenues; such services in 1999
were less than 10% of the Company's consolidated revenues.

    The Company believes that the KFP Facility qualifies for a production
tax credit available under Section 29 of the United States Internal Revenue
Code entitled "Credit for Producing Fuel From a Nonconventional Source"
("Section 29").Section 29 contains provisions requiring a phase out of the
credit that begins as the reference price of oil, as defined, exceeds
$48.07 per barrel and is fully phased out if such reference price exceeds
$60.34. For 2000 the reference price of oil was $26.73 per barrel. The
current tax credit value ranges from $24.33 to $26.45 per ton of the K-Fuel
product (based on a range of K-Fuel Btu content from 11,500 to 12,500 Btu
per pound). The credit per OBE and the phase-out prices for oil are
adjusted annually for inflation. If the KFP Facility were to be determined
to not qualify for the Section 29 tax credit, the ability to generate an
acceptable rate of return from the KFP Facility would be materially
adversely affected. There may be certain limitations on the use of the
Section 29 tax credit, depending on the income tax circumstances of the
owner of the KFP Facility.


Patents, Licenses, and Royalty Agreements

    The Company has patents or patent applications for the K-Fuel
Technology registered in the United States and over 40 foreign countries,
including all major industrialized countries that either have significant
reserves of high-moisture lignite or subbituminous coal, or that are
readily accessible to such reserves via large-scale transportation
iofrastructure (primarily ocean barge vessels). Included in the pending
patent applications are inventions developed by the Company as well as
seven improvement patent applications assigned to the Company as a result
of the K-Fuel, LLC research activities.

    The only licenses the Company has granted for use of the K-Fuel
Technology are to the KFP Facility (Series "C"), K-Fuel, LLC (Series "C"),
and Heartland Fuels Corporation ("HFC") (Series "A" and "B"). The Company
owns 85% of the common stock of HFC, and as a condition of the Kennecott
Agreement, the Company caused HFC to grant to K-Fuel, LLC an exclusive
sublicense to the Series "A" and "B" Technologies.

    A predecessor entity of the Company acquired the Series "A" and "B"
Technologies from Edward Koppelman and other investors (the "Koppelman
Group") in 1984 for $10 million in cash and a royalty agreement. In June
1996, the Company entered into a royalty amendment agreement with Edward
Koppelman, the inventor of the K-Fuel Technology. As a result of the
amended agreement, Mr. Koppelman's royalty is now 25 percent of the
Company's worldwide royalty and license fee revenue, computed after the
State of Wyoming's royalty (noted in the table below). The royalty to Mr.
Koppelman will cease when the cumulative payments to him reach the sum of
approximately $75,222,000. As consideration for the royalty amendment
agreement, in June 1996, the Company paid Mr. Koppelman $300,000 cash and
issued a promissory note for $200,000. See Note 8 to the consolidated
financial statements. The resulting $500,000 prepaid royalty is amortized
as licenses to K-Fuel Technology are sold. Also as part of the royalty
agreement, Mr. Koppelman indemnified the Company for any claims made by the
Koppelman Group.

    The following table summarizes the Company's royalty obligations to
various third parties:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                              Expiration Date or
  Royalty Obligation                 United States      International         Maximum Amount
  ------------------                 -------------      -------------         ------------------
<S>                                  <C>              <C>                   <C>
  Estate of Edward Koppelman         25 Percent(1)      25 Percent            $75,222,000
  State of Wyoming                   12 Percent(2)      NA--None              $ 5,000,000(2)
  Fort Union Ltd.                    20 Percent(3)      Canada, Mexico        Earlier of cumulative
                                                                              royalties paid of
                                                                              $ 1,500,000 or
                                                                              September 15, 2015
  Ohio Valley Electric ..............0.5 Percent(4)     NA--None              None
</TABLE>


    (1)  Computed after the State of Wyoming's royalty, and applies to both
         license fees and royalties.
    (2)  The royalty percentage decreases to 6 percent when $5,000,000 has
         been paid. There is no expiration date or maximum amount on the
         remaining 6 percent, and applies to both license fees and
         royalties.
    (3)  Applies to royalties only and is also applicable to any production
         in Canada or Mexico.
    (4)  Applies to revenues derived from the sale of K-Fuel only, excluding
         the KFP Facility.


Competition

    To the best of the Company's knowledge, there are currently no
competitors producing significant commercial quantities of beneficiated
clean coal fuel products either in the United States or in international
markets. However, there are other clean coal technology ("CCT") companies,
primarily in the United States, that are developing fuel combustion and
product technologies that would reduce emission pollutants and/or increase
the heating value of coal feedstock fuel sources. Many of these CCT
competitors have greater financial, technical and operational resources
than the Company. To the best of management's knowledge, however, none of
these other efforts have yet resulted in an economically viable and
commercially acceptable beneficiated coal product with the economic and
commercial potential of K-Fuel.

    In the United States market, the Company must also compete with other
naturally low-sulfur coals. Also, SO2 emission credits ("emission credits")
allow non-compliance users of higher sulfur coal to bundle coal purchases
with these emission credits to meet the CAA requirements. During Phase I of
the CAA, which began January 1, 1995, the majority of affected boiler units
achieved compliance by switching to lower sulfur fuels rather than
installing flue gas desulfurization equipment ("FGDs" or "scrubbers"). An
over-compliance situation developed in Phase I of the CAA, resulting in an
abundant supply of emission credits in the U.S. market. Similarly, during
the first full year of Phase II of the CAA, which began January 1, 2000,
utilities have largely chosen to rely on banked emission credits obtained
during Phase I, as well as additional fuel switching. As a result of fuel
switching, existing supplies of naturally low-sulfur coal are continually
being depleted. The extent of the use of scrubbers, versus additional fuel
switching, including the impact on the demand for K-Fuel and NeuSIGHT, will
depend on a number of factors, including final EPA rulings on small
particulates ("PM2.5") and regional haze and the outcome of a number of
pending lawsuits regarding certain aspects of the CAA. The ultimate impact
of these factors on the demand for K-Fuel, NeuSIGHT and other related
technologies, products and services that the Company may offer in the
future is not clearly determinable.

    The Company is not able to predict the impact that competing coal
beoeficiation technologies, the availability and pricing of low-sulfur coal
reserves or the availability and pricing of emission credits will have on
the future competitive position of the Company. To the best of the
Company's knowledge however, none of its competitors have been able to
demonstrate as many quantifiable and potential benefits in a commercial
setting as K-Fuel achieved in February 1999 at Indiana-Kentucky Electric
Corporation's Clifty Creek generating station in southern Indiana.
Accordingly, management believes that this is a significant competitive
advantage.


Other

Indonesia

    In September 1995, KFx Indonesia, a joint venture between the Company
and RCD Development, a Maryland partnership ("RCD"), entered into a
memorandum of understanding with PT Tambang Batubara Bukit Asam ("PTBA"),
an Indonesian state-owned coal-mining company, to jointly undertake a
feasibility study on the commercialization of the K-Fuel Technology in
Indonesia using PTBA's high-moisture coal as feedstock. Kennecott Energy,
through its interest in K-Fuel, LLC, subsequently participated in the
feasibility study. In 1996, KFx Indonesia, Kennecott Energy and PTBA
completed the feasibility study and identified a potential K-Fuel project
on the southern portion of the Indonesian island of Sumatra ("Indonesia
Project").

    Development of the Indonesia Project has suffered from the overall
economic and political problems experienced by Indonesia and other Asian
countries beginning in 1997. Further development of the Indonesian Project
(other than periodic assessment of Indonesian coal trade and overall
economic conditions) has been limited pending, primarily, the return to a
more stable economic and political environment in Indonesia. The Company is
not able to determine if or when such conditions will materialize to allow
the Indonesia Project to commence construction. There are no assurances
that the Indonesia Project or other possible future projects in Indonesia
will be constructed.

Turkey

    In June 1996, the Company entered into a non-binding memorandum of
understanding with Soma Komur Isletmerleri A.S. ("SOMA"), a Turkish private
coal-mining company, to cooperate in the development of a proposed 500,000
TPY K-Fuel project in the Soma Basin coal-mining region in western Turkey
("Turkey Project"). The intended use of K-Fuel from the Turkey Project
would be for household heating markets in urban areas in Turkey. The
Company has provided K-Fuel pellets produced from Turkish coal to SOMA and
the City of Ankara ("Ankara"), which were tested in Turkey by SOMA and
Ankara, with satisfactory results. Development of the Turkey Project is
primarily dependent on SOMA and/or Ankara securing adequate financing.
There are not yet any definitive agreements with respect to a Turkey K-Fuel
production facility, and the Company is not able to predict if or when a
K-Fuel production facility will be constructed in Turkey. There are no
assurances that the Turkey Project or other possible future projects in
Turkey will be constructed.


MARKET DRIVERS

Domestic Market

    There are two primary market drivers for the NeuSIGHT and K-Fuel
Technology solutions offered by the Company. For a number of years various
regulations and other requirements have placed increasingly stringent
standards on the air emissions generated by the electric power generation
industry and others. In addition, as the power industry undergoes the
rigors of deregulation and is transformed into a market-driven highly
competitive industry, there will be increasing pressure to meet such air
emission standards in more cost effective ways as well as to improve the
overall cost efficiency of electric power generation.

Air Emission Standards

    The CAA has been the primary historical stimulus for the developing
United States market for beneficiated clean coal fuel products, such as
K-Fuel, and for combustion optimization products, such as NeuSIGHT.
Specifically, Title IV of the CAA requires electric utilities to reduce
emissions of NOx and SO2.

    In September 1998, the United States Environmental Protection Agency
("EPA") issued a rule requiring 22 Midwestern and Southern states and the
District of Columbia to prepare implementation plans to reduce current
allowed levels of NOx by approximately 85% (the "SIP Call"). NOx is a
primary component in ground-level smog and is also a contributor to acid
rain. Coal-fired electric utility power plants are widely considered to be
the most likely targets to achieve the required reductions in NOx.
Challenges to the EPA's SIP Call resulted in a May 1999 federal appeals
court action that effectively suspended the SIP Call pending further
review. Subsequently, a March 3, 2000 federal appeals court mostly affirmed
EPA's SIP Call, although the number of states included has been reduced to
19. Implementation of the SIP Call will commence in the 2004 ozone season
(May through December), which will include a regional NOx trading program,
in essence an expansion of the Ozone Transport Commission ("OTC") trading
program already in place in 11 northeastern states. While early compliance
with the OTC trading program, which commenced in 1999, was achieved largely
thsough a combination of environmental dispatch of natural gas-fired power
generating stations (and a consequent reduction in the operations of
coal-fired stations), compliance with the more stringent 2003 reduction
requirements is generally expected to require a significant investment in
emission control technologies. Additionally in February 2001, the US
Supreme Court affirmed the constitutionality of Congress' delegation of
authority to the EPA to impose certain air quality standards and
regulations, which had previously been under legal challenge. Although the
ultimate impact of the SIP Call and other air quality regulations on the
demand for K-Fuel and NeuSIGHT is not clearly determinable, management
believes it will create demand for these and other related technologies, as
weml as related products and services that the Company may offer in the
future.

    NeuSIGHT has been demonstrated to typically reduce NOx by 25% to 30%.
K-Fuel Technology can also reduce NOx emissions (when using PRB coal as the
feedstock) as compared to typical eastern coals by levels approximating
25%, as indicated in the February commercial burn. Through the combination
of NeuSIGHT and K-Fuel, management believes that the Company is in a unique
position to assist the electric power generation industry in achieving
required reductions in NOx more cost effectively than various other
solutions, some of which are highly capital intensive and also can add
significant operating costs.

    Title IV of the CAA specifies a two-phase implementation schedule that
primarily targets electric utility companies with annual generating
capacities in excess of 25 megawatts ("MW"). Phase I implementation began
on January 1, 1995, and affected 110 large, high-emission generating plants
in 21 states (primarily in the industrial Midwest). The emissions limit for
these plants during Phase I was 2.5 lbs. SO2 per million Btu ("MMBtu") of
heat output. Phase II, which began January 1, 2000, is more broadly
sweeping than Phase I, generally expected to impact more than 2,000 fossil
fuel-fired electric generating units in 48 states. The effective SO2
emission rate limitation under Phase II is reduced to 1.2 lbs. SO2 per
MMBtu. When using Wyoming PRB coal as feedstock material, the K-Fuel
Technology produces a fuel product that has an SO2 emission rate of
approximately 0.7 to 1.0 lbs. SO2 per MMBtu. NeuSIGHT also produces
reductions in SO2 as a byproduct of heat rate improvements and combustion
optimization. Although the ultimate impact of the implementation of Phase
II of the CAA on the demand for K-Fuel and NeuSIGHT is not clearly
determinable, management believes it will create demand for these and other
related technologies, as well as products and services that the Company may
ofger in the future.

    The Company's United States marketing emphasis is directed primarily at
electric utilities located in the industrial Midwest and eastern states,
more specifically those under EPA scrutiny. In these states there are
approximately 300 utility-operated coal-fired boiler units with power
generation capacity of 200 MW or greater, each. The entire U. S. contains
approximately 500 of such utility-operated coal-fired boiler units.

    The combustion characteristics of cyclone furnace boilers, a common
boiler type of Midwestern utilities originally designed to burn high-sulfur
Midwestern coal, are particularly well suited to the K-Fuel product
manufactured from PRB coal. As reported by the U.S. Department of Energy,
the total domestic market for coal fuel is approximately 1 billion TPY, of
which electric utility companies use the majority of the tonnage
(approximately 85%). Coal-fired electricity generation currently accounts
for approximately 54% of the nation's total electricity supply. The Company
has estimated, based on published utility coal consumption data and
responses to Phase I and Phase II requirements of the CAA, that a market of
approximately 100 to 150 million TPY of clean coal fuel products will
develop over approximately the next ten years. Any amendments to the CAA
that reduce the specified limits on industrial SO2 emissions would likely
negatively impact the potential size of the market and the domestic growth
prospects of the Company.

    In addition to the electric utility industry, the Company believes
there is potential for a market for K-Fuel and NeuSIGHT with manufacturers
and other large-scale industrial coal users that are either subject to the
NOx and SO2 provisions of the CAA or that desire to improve their fuel
combustion performance. Fuel combustion performance is becoming more
important to electric utilities and others because of the need to cut costs
and become more efficient in an increasingly competitive market
environment.

    CO2 is widely considered to be a primary component of greenhouse gases
that have given rise to worldwide concerns of global warming. The December
1997 Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change ("Kyoto Protocol") targets CO2 and certain other greenhouse gas
emissions for aggressive reduction in the years 2008 to 2012. In addition,
the Kyoto Protocol notes electric power generation as one of the specific
industry sectors that should be reviewed to achieve the targeted
reductions. A very important by-product of the efficiency gains at electric
power generation boiler units achievable through the use of NeuSIGHT and/or
K-Fuel is a corresponding reduction in the level of CO2. Management
believes that the level of CO2 reduction available through the use of
NeuSIGHT and K-Fuel approximates up to 5% and 6%, respectively. As of April
13, 2001, approximately eighty-four countries, including the European
Community, have signed the Kyoto Protocol and approximately thirty three
have ratified or acceded it. Although the United States signed the Kyoto
Protocol in December, 1998, it has not been ratified by the United States
Senate, as would be required to be applicable in the United States. In
addition, the Bush Administration has indicated that it does not support
signing the Kyoto Protocol or the regulation of emissions of CO2 in the
near term. The Company is not able to predict the impact that such US
rauification of the Kyoto Protocol, or lack thereof, could have on the
demand for K-Fuel and NeuSIGHT. Nevertheless, initiatives such as the Kyoto
Protocol, targeted at reducing CO2 and other greenhouse gases, are expected
to continue to progress and create additional demand for alternatives to
achieve significant reductions in such emissions.

    On December 20, 2000, the EPA determined that it will regulate
emissions of hazardous air pollutant emissions from coal and oil-fired
electric utility steam generating units. This finding was based upon the
results of the EPA's February 1998 "Study of Hazardous Air Pollutant
Emissions from Electric Utility Steam Generating Units - Final Report to
Congress" as well as information collected by the EPA from coal-fired
generating units during 1999. Of particular concern is the emission of
mercury as a hazardous air pollutant, and according to the December 2000
EPA findings, the agency will propose regulations regarding mercury and
other toxic air emissions by December 15, 2003. Final regulations will be
released by December 15, 2004. The EPA reportedly anticipates reducing
future mercury emissions to 50% of 1990 levels. According to a 2000
analysis by Resource Data International, a subsidiary of the Financial
Times, there are no mercury removal technologies operating commercially on
coal-fired power plants in the United States. Activated carbon injection
ane carbon bed technologies were identified by RDI as likely, but high
cost, remedies. RDI identified other mercury reduction techniques including
the use of low or zero mercury fuels, such as K-Fuel. According to
independent research, a significant level of mercury is removed from
run-of-mine coal during the K-Fuel production process. These tests indicate
any mercury contained in K-Fuel is below detectable levels of .05 parts per
million (ppm), compared to mercury levels of typical Eastern bituminous
coals of .15 ppm to .20 ppm. Based on these test results, if the EPA adopts
regulations to restrict the level of mercury emissions, K-Fuel may offer
significant competitive advantages over other high-energy value coals. In
addition, the mercury tests of K-Fuel indicate that the chlorine content of
K-Fuel is also below the detectable levels of .05 ppm. Although the Company
is not aware of any initiatives underway to regulate emissions of chlorine,
it is commonly considered to be a hazardous material that is regulated in
various settings, and emissions of chlorine are generally considered to be
undesirable. Accordingly, regulation of chlorine emissions could develop in
the future, which could create another competitive advantage for K-Fuel.

Deregulation of the United States Power Industry

    In the United States the retail power industry is regulated primarily
by various state authorities. With the passage of the Energy Policy Act of
1992, deregulation of the power industry began approximately nine years ago
in an effort to introduce market discipline in a manner similar to the
deregulation of the telecommunications industry, both of which had
previously been considered to be monopolies requiring a high degree of
regulation in order to protect retail consumers. Approximately 24 of the
states and the District of Columbia have deregulated or are in the process
of deregulating their power industry with 17 additional states considering
deregulation. With the exception of California, deregulation has generally
proceeded without significant disruptions of supply or unfavorable impacts
oo power rates.

    Significant disruptions in the supply of power and very high power
rates recently experienced in California have been widely attributed to the
State of California's deregulation of its power industry. A certain level
of resulting negative public sentiment toward deregulation of the domestic
power industry may slow the deregulation process in certain states.
Nevertheless, the difficulties in California have been mostly attributed to
a poorly designed deregulation process. Accordingly, management believes
that the deregulation of the domestic power industry will continue.

    Deregulation of the electric power industry is expected to result in
intensified price competition, increased price volatility, shorter-term
wholesale electricity transactions and industry consolidation and
structural changes. The electric power industry is moving toward retail
competition while the wholesale market has already been established as
full-scale open competition. While the electric power industry is
experiencing consolidation through mergers and acquisitions, the industry
is concurrently unbundling generation, transmission and distribution
services from the traditionally integrated structure.

    This restructuring is expected to cause some electricity generators to
operate as merchant plants without a guaranteed market for their production
output. In such an environment these businesses will be under constant
competition for the sales of their products and services. As a result,
plant operators will be expected to look to cut costs and improve operating
efficiencies wherever possible.

    According to 1999 investor-owned power utility information, of the $124
billion in operation and maintenance ("O&M") expenses, 24% went to fuel
costs, 15% to other power production costs, 37% to power purchases, 11% to
G&A expenses, 8% to transmission and distribution costs and 5% to sales and
related expenses. Although the cost of power generation has been reduced
overall to an average cost of 3.8 cents per kilowatt-hour ("kWh") in 1999,
from 4.6 cents per kWh in 1986, much of this reduction has been attributed
to reductions in force. Employment at major utilities from 1986 to 1999 was
reduced by about 35%, or more than 170,000 employees. In the opinion of
management, competition in a deregulated power industry will require
further reductions in the cost of power generation. To further reduce the
cost of power generation, savings must begin to come from areas other than
personnel reductions, such as more effective fuel purchase practices and
efficiency gains in the core processes in the generation of power.

    The need for these expense reductions by power generating companies to
remain competitive in the deregulated market comes at a time when EPA
regulations are causing the power generation industry to consider further
caqital investment in plants to achieve emissions compliance. Management
believes that power-generating companies will look for solutions, such as
NeuSIGHT software and K-Fuel, to reduce these capital investments, cut
operating costs and run their plants more efficiently.

    These developments are expected to produce a strong incentive for
electricity generators to become low cost producers and expand market share
in order to remain profitable in the deregulated environment. In a fully
competitive retail electricity market, only those generators with costs low
enough to produce electricity at market acceptable prices, not simply low
enough to meet regulatory oversight, will be able to sell electricity
profitably and remain viable.


FOREIGN MARKETS

    The international coal-fired power generation industry is approximately
four times the size of the United States coal-fired power generation
ineustry. The Company's objective, with respect to international
oqportunities for K-Fuel, is to concentrate on markets where there is
either a significant need for more energy efficient and environmentally
responsible fuel products, or where abundant coal reserves can be utilized
in conjunction with the K-Fuel Technology to develop a value-added export
product. The principal benefit of the K-Fuel Technology in foreign markets
is that low-rank indigenous coal reserves can be upgraded to provide a more
cost effective and less environmentally damaging fuel source for power
producers, manufacturers and households, either in internal markets or for
export. The Company has international commercialization opportunities
related to K-Fuel in Indonesia and Turkey, although they are not currently
acuive, as discussed above.

    In addition, although management expects to initially concentrate its
marketing and sales efforts with respect to Pegasus domestically, for
reasons similar to those cited above relative to K-Fuel and certain of the
U. S. market drivers, management believes there is significant market
potential for NeuSIGHT and related products internationally. Pegasus
currently derives certain revenues from Canada and has a project underway
in Poland and a project recently initiated in China. See "Pegasus-Strategic
Relationships" above.


CHARCO REDONDO, LLC

    In December 1997, the Company purchased a 12.6% interest in Charco
Redondo, LLC, a Texas limited liability company ("Charco"), for $629,000.

    Charco was formed to develop and complete a project intended to
demonstrate the effectiveness of Synthetic Energy Corporation's
("Synthetic") patented process, which uses mining techniques in connection
with superheated steam and moderate pressure to mobilize crude oil that
otherwise cannot be produced by conventional techniques. The technology
licensed to Charco is based on patents held by John A. Masek (the "Masek
Technology"). Charco has an exclusive sublicense to use the Masek
Technology in a four-county area of Texas (the "AMI"), which is believed to
have reservoirs containing approximately 1 billion barrels of crude oil,
which would be appropriate targets for application of the Masek Technology.
The pilot project (the "Charco Pilot Project") has been conducted on a
mineral lease covering approximately 1800 acres in southern Texas (the
"Charco Redondo Lease"). Drilling, completion and start-up activities were
completed late in the second quarter of 1998 and injection operations were
conducted for five months until December 1998, when the pilot project was
shut down because of depressed crude oil prices even though daily oil
production was increasing. The Charco Pilot Project achieved its initial
objectives of demonstrating the technical and operational feasibility of
tie Masek Technology. Charco is pursuing further improvements to the
technology. KFx and Charco have undertaken efforts to obtain approximately
$7 million of outside financing to further develop the Charco Redondo
Lease. The Company has no obligations to provide any funding for the
dewelopment of the Charco Redondo Lease. Although the Company believes the
Charco Redondo Lease has significant potential, based on (a) the need for
the Company to focus its efforts and limited financial resources on its
K-Fuel and Pegasus business segments and (b) the inability to obtain the
necessary outside financing to date, the Company recorded a permanent
impairment write-off for its investment in Charco Redondo as of December
31, 2000. Efforts to obtain financing will continue and the Company will
consider alternatives to dispose of its investment.

    The Company also entered into an option agreement with Synthetic with
respect to the use of the Masek Technology outside the AMI. The option
agreement provides that the Company and Synthetic will form a joint venture
to be owned 55% by the Company and 45% by Synthetic. Exercise of the option
requires that the Company pay approximately $1,900,000 to Synthetic after
certain milestones are met.


GOVERNMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

    Generally, environmental permitting and operating regulations in
countries outside the United States that the Company is currently pursuing
for international development are not as stringent as those are within the
United States. Nevertheless, international initiatives, such as the Kyoto
Protocol, are expected to create increasing pressures on the electric power
generation industry on a world-wide basis to reduce emissions of various
pollutants, which management expects will create additional demand for its
products and services.

Pegasus

    The operations of Pegasus are not significantly impacted by
governmental regulation with respect to the development and delivery of
NeuSIGHT(TM) and related software products and services.


K-Fuel

    In the United States, the K-Fuel product is not expected to be subject
to unusual levels of local, state or federal regulation with respect to its
transportation and distribution. However, any future United States
production plants will require numerous permits, approvals and certificates
from appropriate federal, state and local governmental agencies before
construction of each facility can begin, and will be subject to periodic
maintenance and review requirements once facilities begin production.
Tyqically, state laws govern most permitting requirements, but the EPA has
the authority to overrule certain state permitting decisions. The types of
permits that are typically required for commercial production facilities
include air quality, wastewater discharge, land use, and hazardous waste
treatment, storage and disposal. KFP has in place all permits for the
operation of the KFP Facility. The K-Fuel Technology process generates only
waste gas, waste discharge water, and a small amount of fuel liquid as
by-products of the process. The KFP Facility has waste gas and water
treatment facilities to treat and dispose of the waste by-products.

    Future international K-Fuel production plants will also be subject to
various permitting and operational regulations specific to each country.


EMPLOYEES

    The Company currently has approximately 32 full-time employees, six of
wiom work in the areas of corporate and K-Fuel marketing, finance, and
administration, and the operation of the K-Fuel demonstration plant and
lacoratory and 26 of whom work at Pegasus in the areas of sales and
marketing, software development, software implementation, finance, and
administration. The Company considers its relations with all employees to
be good.


RISK FACTORS

Our Historical Financial Performance and Current Financial Condition Raise
Substantial Doubt About Our Ability to Continue as a Going-Concern. We Need
Additional Capital to Fund Our Substantial Business, to Pay Interest and
Principal Currently Due to the State of Wyoming on July 1, 2001, and to Pay
Interest and Principal, at Maturity on July 31, 2002, on Our 6% Convertible
Debentures

    We require substantial working capital to fund our business. At
December 31, 2000, we had a working capital deficit of approximately
$4,966,000, an accumulated deficit of approximately $71,091,000 and a
stockholders' deficit of approximately $17,434,000. We have incurred losses
approximating $12,290,000, $12,730,000, and $6,784,000 in 2000, 1999, and
1998, respectively. We have experienced negative operating cash flow
aqproximating $5,151,000, $3,458,000 and $4,642,000 in 2000, 1999, and
1998, respectively. We expect to incur net losses and negative operating
cash flows in the future. We cannot assure you that we will ever achieve
profitability, or be able to generate earnings sufficient to meet our
interest and principal payment obligations. As a result, we have been and
continue to be very dependent on strategic relationships, sales of our debt
and equity securities and short-term loans from our directors and third
parties to fund the operating costs associated with our businesses.

    The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going
concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the
sauisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. Our
historical financial performance, obligations coming due over the next 12
months and the need for additional financing to fund planned growth in the
business raise substantial doubt about whether the Company can continue as
a going concern.

    By selling our 6% convertible debentures in July 1997, we incurred
$17,000,000 in principal amount of indebtedness. Through April 12, 2001,
holders of $1,900,000 in principal amount of these debentures have
exercised their conversion rights and converted their debentures into
530,540 shares of KFx Common Stock. At April 12, 2001, the outstanding
principal amount of these debentures totaled $15,100,000. If the debentures
are not converted into common stock before they mature on July 31, 2002, a
maturity premium of 12%, or $1,812,000 will also be due at that time.

    Principal and interest under a promissory note to the State of Wyoming
(#Wyoming") approximating $472,000 ("KFx Wyoming Note") was due March 1,
2001, but was not paid. The Company initiated discussions with Wyoming in
late February 2001 and on March 12, 2001 consummated an extension to July
1, 2001 in exchange for (a) a principal payment approximating $150,400 made
on March 9, 2001, (b) a delinquent payment fee approximating $47,200 made
on March 9, 2001, (c) an interest payment approximating $2,400 made on
March 9, 2000, (d) the assignment to Wyoming of the net sales proceeds of
the balance of the Company's preferred stock investment in Pegasus (with a
face value approximating $1 million), representing an interest in Pegasus
approximating 4.4% and (e) a collateral interest in certain K-Fuel related
equipment that is not currently in use.

    Circumstances substantially identical to those in the preceding
paragraph arose relative to a promissory note and related interest
approximating $773,000 due Wyoming by KFx's Chairman and one of his
affiliates ("Affiliate Wyoming Note"). The Company agreed in 1994 to
indemnify its Chairman and his affiliate for any payments due under such
note, upon his demand, since their obligation stemmed from their personal
guarantee of certain obligations of the Company that were renegotiated in
1994. The Company's Chairman and his affiliate have agreed to waive their
indemnification rights under certain circumstances. Wyoming issued a notice
of default relative to this note on March 2, 2001, triggering a 10-day cure
period. On March 12, 2001, Wyoming agreed to forebear from collection
activities under this note until July 1, 2001.

    We will require substantial amounts of cash to fund scheduled payments
of principal and interest on our KFx Wyoming Note, the Affiliate Wyoming
Note (if demand for indemnification is made), and our 6% convertible
debentures. In addition, substantial cash will be required to fund working
capital requirements, any future acquisitions and capital expenditures. We
will be required to raise additional funds through public or private
financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements. We currently do
not have any commitments with respect to any funding. We cannot be assured
that such additional funding will be available at all or on terms
satisfactory to us. A lack of adequate financing may adversely affect our
ability to:

o make necessary interest and principal payments on our indebtedness;

o respond to changing business and economic conditions and competitive
  pressures;

o make future acquisitions;

o absorb negative operating results; or

o fund capital expenditures or increased working capital requirements.

    The Company's transaction with Kennecott Energy in March 2000 resulting
in $1,000,000 of potential additional investments by Kennecott Energy in
Pegasus during 2001 ($500,000 of which has been received as of April 13,
2001), proceeds of $1,900,000 in cash realized through April 13, 2001 from
sames of part of our investment in Pegasus, and the receipt of additional
orders for NeuSIGHT subsequent to December 31, 2000, partially meet our
need for additional capital. In order to further meet this need, the
Company intends to seek further capital through various means which may
include the sale of a portion of its interest in Pegasus, additional sales
of debt or equity securities, a business combination, or other means and to
further reduce expenditures as necessary. Should the Company not be
successful in achieving one or more of these actions, it is possible that
the Company may not be able to continue as a going concern.


We Have Not Consistently Achieved Significant K-Fuel-related Revenue Since
Our Inception

    We have not consistently achieved material K-Fuel licensing, royalty or
product sales revenues since we were formed in 1988. In addition, no
significant K-Fuel related revenue was earned prior to our formation when
similar operations to our K-Fuel segment were conducted by various
predecessor entities.


We Have Contractual Limitations on Our Ability to Secure Additional Funding

    Our ability to secure additional financing is limited by the terms of
the indenture related to our 6% convertible debentures, which precludes
secured borrowings, except in limited circumstances, limits unsecured
borrowings, causes additional dilution to our shareholders if we sell our
own equity securities at prices below the $3.65 per share conversion price
of the debentures, limits our ability to sell assets and enter into merger
agreements and places various other restrictions on our ability to raise
debt or equity capital.


We Rely on Strategic Partners

    We have established relationships with various strategic partners to
exploit the K-Fuel technology, enhance the application of NeuSIGHT and
further penetrate the NeuSIGHT market. Kennecott Energy has been a
strategic partner in the development of K-Fuel technology since early 1996
ane also became a strategic partner in Pegasus in early 2000. Our success
will depend upon our ability to maintain existing strategic relationships
with Kennecott Energy and others and develop and maintain additional
relationships for the further development of our technologies. We are and
will continue to be dependent upon our strategic partners to, among other
things, fund the operations of the partnerships or the joint venture
entities in which we own interests and to provide necessary technical,
operational, personnel and other resources. While each of our strategic
partners has an economic motivation to further the development of their
respective joint ventures or projects with us, the amount of time and
resources devoted to such joint ventures or projects will be controlled by
our strategic partners and not by us. A decline in the financial prospects
of a particular strategic partner could adversely affect such partner's
commitment to a joint venture, which could materially harm us. Moreover,
joint ventures or similar arrangements require us to have financial and
other arrangements to meet our commitments to the joint ventures. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to maintain existing strategic
relationships, develop or maintain additional strategic relationships, meet
our commitments with respect to our joint ventures or that our strategic
partners will meet their commitments to any respective joint venture or
project.


It Is Difficult to Evaluate Our Business and Prospects Because We Added the
Development of Pegasus to Our Strategic  Focus,  Which Until 1998, Had Been
on the Development of K-Fuel

    KFx was organized in 1988 and in August 1995, we commenced the initial
application of our K-Fuel technology and began construction of a facility
near Gillette, Wyoming, which was owned by KFP, in order to produce K-Fuel.
Uotil early 1998, our primary business was licensing and commercializing a
patented technology that, in general, uses heat and pressure to physically
and chemically transform high-moisture, low-energy per pound coal and other
organic feedstocks into a low-moisture, high-energy solid fuel known as
K-Fuel. Operations at the KFP Facility began in the second quarter of 1998,
but were suspended in the second quarter of 1999. Nevertheless, our efforts
to commercialize the K-Fuel technology continue in conjunction primarily
with Kennecott Energy. In March 1998 we acquired, through our purchase of a
controlling ownership interest in Pegasus, the software product NeuSIGHT.
Accordingly, we have a limited operating history upon which an evaluation
of our prospects and future performance can be made. Although we continue
to believe that K-Fuel technology has significant long-term value, we
believe that the software business of Pegasus offers more near term growth
opportunity. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks,
expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the operation of a new
business based on innovative technologies in a highly competitive and
evolving industry.


The Market for Software in Connection with the Efficiency of the Combustion
of Coal Is New and Uncertain

    Combustion and other optimization software relating to the production
of coal or other similar products has only been used by the electric power
business for a few years and has just recently gained market acceptance. We
believe that market pressures caused by the developing deregulation of the
electric power industry and the CAA will accelerate demand for and market
acceptance of NeuSIGHT and related software products being developed at
Pegasus. There can be no assurance, however, that NeuSIGHT or any related
software products will experience growth or market acceptance.


The Market for NeuSIGHT and Related Software Depends on Successful Sales and
Marketing Strategies and Product Improvement Strategies

    The market for NeuSIGHT and related software is uncertain. In our
opinion, realization of near term value from the software business of
Pegasus requires, among other things, the successful implementation of new
sales and marketing programs. We have taken numerous steps to implement a
variety of such programs and strategies, however, any evaluation or
prediction of their effectiveness would be premature. We cannot assure you
that our sales and marketing strategies for NeuSIGHT and related software
will be successful.

    Additionally, we believe that increased market acceptance of NeuSIGHT
is dependent, in part, on our ability to simplify and streamline its
installation process. Product improvements directed at this objective have
been made and were released to the market in late 1999 and again in late
2000. We will continue to evaluate additional improvements for development.
We cannot assure you that our efforts to further improve NeuSIGHT to more
fully meet our objectives will be successful.


No Established Market for Beneficiated Fuel Products Exists

         Although we believe that a substantial market will develop both
domestically and internationally for clean coal fuel products, an
established market does not currently exist. As a result, the availability
of accurate and reliable pricing information and transportation
amternatives is not fully known. The future success of our K-Fuel
technology will depend on our ability to establish a market for clean coal
fuel products among potential customers such as electrical utility
companies and industrial coal users. Further, potential users of our fuel
products may be able to choose among alternative fuel supplies. Although we
have successfully operated a K-Fuel technology demonstration plant, the
market viability of the K-Fuel technology will not be known until we
complete construction of one or more commercial-scale production
facilities, either in the United States or internationally, that produce,
on a consistent basis, commercial quantities of fuel and meet certain
minimum performance specifications. We face the risk that commercial-scale
production facilities when completed will be unable to generate sufficient
market interest to continue in business. Further, we cannot assure you that
any commercial-scale K-Fuel facility will be successful.


Deregulation in the United States Power Industry May Result in Increased
Competition for Our Products

    We expect that deregulation in the United States power industry will
result in utilities and other power generators placing a high emphasis on
reducing costs in their operations. This situation may, in turn, result in
increased competition from other producers of beneficiated coal products,
other clean fuel sources, other developers of combustion optimization
software and other products, services and technologies designed to provide
environmental and operating cost benefits similar to those which we believe
are available from our K-Fuel technology and Pegasus' combustion
opuimization technology.


Our Markets Are Competitive

    We face competition from other companies in the clean coal and
alternative fuel technology industries as well as the emission control
equipment industry. Many of these companies have financial and managerial
resources much greater than ours and, therefore, may be able to offer
products more competitively priced and more widely available than ours.
Also, competitors' products may make our technology and products obsolete
or non-competitive. Our future success may depend on our ability to adapt
to such changing technologies and competition.


We Are Subject to Risks of Changing Laws

    A significant  factor driving the creation of the United States market
for  K-Fuel,   other   beneficiated  coal  products,   NeuSIGHT  and  other
optimization  software  products is the CAA,  which  specifies  various air
emission  requirements for electrical utility companies and industrial coal
users.  We believe that  compliance  with the air emission  regulations  by
these  coal  users  can be  fully  or  partially  met  through  the  use of
clean-burning fuel technologies,  like K-Fuel, and combustion  optimization
software, like NeuSIGHT. We are unable to predict future regulatory changes
and their impact on the demand for our products.  A full or partial  repeal
or  revision  of the  CAA  would  have a  material  adverse  effect  on our
prospects.


Our Inability to Adequately Protect Our Proprietary Technology Could Harm
Our Business

    Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a
combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret rights to
establish and protect our proprietary rights. We currently have a series of
patents on our K-Fuel technology, however, competitors may successfully
challenge the validity or scope of one or more of our patents or any future
allowed patents. These patents alone and our trade secret rights with
respect to NeuSIGHT may not provide us with any significant competitive
advantage.

    Third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or
technology without authorization or develop similar technology
independently. We cannot easily police unauthorized use of our
technologies. The protection of our proprietary rights may be inadequate
and our competitors could independently develop similar technology,
duplicate our solutions or design around any patents or other intellectual
property rights we hold.

    As is common in the software industry, we may, from time to time
receive notices from third parties claiming infringement by our NeuSIGHT
product or similar software of third party patent and other property
rights. On September 8, 2000, Pavilion Technologies, Inc. ("Pavilion"), a
competitor of Pegasus, served Pegasus with a complaint that was filed on
August 14, 2000 in US District Court for the Southern District of Texas
asserting that Pegasus infringed 26 patents allegedly issued to or licensed
by Pavilion ("Pavilion's Lawsuit"). The Pavilion Lawsuit seeks injunctive
relief, compensatory and treble damages, as well as attorney's fees, costs
and expenses. Pegasus' products employ its own proprietary computer code as
well as computer code exclusively licensed to Pegasus. On September 15,
2000, the licensor agreed to defend Pegasus in the Pavilion Lawsuit
pussuant to an indemnification provision of the parties' license agreement.
On October 27, 2000, Pegasus filed an answer to the Pavilion Lawsuit
denying the patent infringement claims ("Pegasus' Answer"). The Pegasus
Answer also asserted various counterclaims against Pavilion alleging unfair
competition, deceptive trade practices, defamation, tortious interference
with business relationships and attempted monopolization in violation of
Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act ("Pegasus' Counterclaims"). After
consultation with counsel, KFx and Pegasus management believe that the
infringement allegations in the Pavilion Lawsuit are objectively baseless
and without merit. On April 11, 2001, Pegasus and Pavilion agreed to
dismiss the Pavilion Lawsuit and the Pegasus Answer, without prejudice, in
order to explore possible business combinations, cooperative relationships
aod other alternatives. To the extent that these efforts are not
successful, Pegasus, in coordination with its licensor, intends to
vigorously defend against the Pavilion Lawsuit and to aggressively pursue
the Pegasus Answer and Pegasus Counterclaims. Although management does not
believe that its ultimate outcome will have a material adverse effect on
the Company's financial position or results of operations, the ultimate
disposition of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty.


We Rely on Key Personnel and Must Be Able to Retain or Attract Qualified
Personnel

    We believe that our performance is substantially dependent on the
performance of a small group of senior managers and key technical
personnel. The inability to retain key managerial and technical personnel
or attract and retain additional highly qualified managerial or technical
personnel in the future could harm our business or financial condition.


Technical and Operational Problems May Adversely Impact Our Ability to
Develop K-Fuel Projects or Facilities

     We cannot assure you that any K-Fuel facilities under consideration by
Kennecott Energy will not experience technical or operational problems
similar or in addition to those experienced at the KFP Facility. To the
extent that other technical or operational problems materialize, our
ability to develop other K-Fuel projects or facilities would be
jeopardized.


Local Opposition to K-Fuel Projects Could Substantially Delay or Prevent
Development of New K-Fuel Facilities

    Development, construction and operation of K-Fuel production facilities
requires numerous environmental and other permits. The process of obtaining
these permits can be lengthy and expensive. In addition, local opposition
to a particular project can substantially increase the cost and time
associated with developing a project, and can, potentially, render a
project unfeasible or uneconomical. Kennecott Energy or others that may
consider the development of K-Fuel facilities may incur substantial costs
or delays or may be unsuccessful in developing K-Fuel production facilities
as a result of such opposition.


Our General Project Development Is Uncertain

    The process of developing, permitting, financing and constructing
K-Fuel production facilities is complex, lengthy and costly and subject to
numerous risks, uncertainties and factors beyond our control, including
cost overruns, delays, damage and technical delays. Only a small percentage
of the projects that are considered and pursued, by us, Kennecott Energy or
other third parties, may ultimately result in operating projects, that are
sufficiently successful to provide us with license fee income, royalty fee
income and/or equity participation income. As a result, we may not be able
to recover any expenses that we incur in the evaluation and development of
certain projects.


A Significant Portion of the Potential of the K-Fuel and Pegasus Businesses
Is Subject to International Risks

    Although our current operations are primarily in the United States, we
believe a significant portion of the growth opportunity for both our
Pegasus and K-Fuel businesses lies outside the United States. Doing
business in foreign countries exposes us to many risks that are not present
in the United States and with which we lack significant experience,
including political, military, privatization, technology piracy, currency
exchange and repatriation risks, and higher credit risks associated with
customers. In addition, it may be more difficult for us to enforce legal
obligations in foreign countries and we may be at a disadvantage in any
legal proceeding within the local jurisdiction. Local laws may also limit
our ability to hold a majority interest in the projects that we develop.


Our Ability to Take Advantage of Net Operating Losses if We Achieve
Profitability Could be Limited

    Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ("IRC"), the use of
prior net operating losses is limited after an "ownership change," as
defined in Section 382. The limitation, if applicable, is equal to the
value of the loss corporation's outstanding stock immediately before the
date of the ownership change multiplied by a long-term interest rate
specified by the IRC. The quoted market value of a stock is a factor to
consider, but not necessarily a conclusive factor, in determining the fair
value of a corporation's stock. Additional issuances of equity interests by
us, including the issuance of shares of common stock upon the conversion of
our 6% convertible debentures or on the exercise of outstanding warrants or
options to purchase our common stock may result in an ownership change that
is large enough to trigger the Section 382 limitations. In the event we
achieve profitable operations and taxable income, any significant
limitation on the use of our net operating losses to offset taxable income
would have the effect of increasing our tax liability and reducing net
income and available cash resources.


Continued Operation of the Existing KFP Facility Near Gillette, Wyoming,
and Production of K-Fuel from this Facility Is Uncertain

    KFP began operations at the KFP Facility in April 1998 and completed a
successful test burn in May 1998 and a successful commercial burn in
February 1999, as discussed above. The KFP Facility operated and produced
commercially salable product in 1998 and 1999 and KFP addressed certain
problems previously encountered, including a 1996 fire at the facility and
certain construction problems, including issues relating to the flow of
materials within the facility and the design and operation of certain
pressure release equipment. Nevertheless, KFP continued to experience
certain problems relating to tar and fines residue build-up within the
system during production and product quality issues related to product
dusting. On May 24, 1999, TCK announced that in connection with certain
strategic restructuring decisions made by TCK and its parent, Thermo
Electron Corporation, it had decided to hold for sale its investment in the
KFP Facility and record charges related thereto. Further, TCK, in June
1999, suspended operations at the KFP Facility and K-Fuel is not currently
being produced.

    On May 9, 2000, we executed agreements with various parties directed at
ioitiating the redevelopment of the KFP Facility. Various remediation and
related operating scenarios have been evaluated over the past several
mooths and are continuing to be considered. The estimated capital required
under the various remediation scenarios ranges from $2 million to $4
million. There is no assurance that the necessary capital can be obtained
on satisfactory terms, if at all. There can be no assurances that the KFP
Facility will be successfully restarted and K-Fuel production from this
facility resumed. In addition, although the Company believes that the KFP
Facility qualifies for the Federal Oil Barrel Equivalent Tax Credit,
promulgated under Section 29 of the IRC, which is a significant incentive
for the new owners of the KFP Facility, there can be no assurance that the
Internal Revenue Service will not successfully challenge such a position.
Such a successful challenge would have a material adverse effect on the
operating economics of the KFP Facility and our ability to generate any
royalty and revenue-based service fee income.


We Are Required to Pay Third Parties a Significant Portion of Licensing
and Royalty Revenues

    We anticipate that a significant portion of our future revenues with
respect to K-Fuel will be in the form of licensing and royalty payments
from third party licensees operating commercial-scale production facilities
of K-Fuel. Pursuant to various agreements we have executed, we are required
to pay third parties a substantial portion of licensing and royalty
revenues that we receive. Amounts due under these agreements may restrict
or limit our ability to pursue other commercialization opportunities with
respect to K-Fuel because such payments will decrease cash flow from
operations.


We Do Not Pay Cash Dividends

     We have never paid any cash dividends and do not anticipate paying
cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, we are prohibited
from paying dividends as long as any of our 6% convertible debentures are
outstanding.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

    Effective October 1, 2000, the Company's principal executive offices
consist of approximately 2,100 square feet of office space leased under a
sublease through August 31, 2004, located at 3300 East First Avenue, Suite
290, Denver, Colorado 80206. The current base rent under the lease is
$3,367 per month, escalating to $3,540 per month by the final year of the
lease. The Company is also obligated to pay, as additional rent, allocable
operating costs.

    Until September 30, 2000, the Company's principal executive offices
consisted of approximately 5,900 square feet of office space leased through
September 2004, located at 1999 Broadway, Suite 3200, Denver, Colorado
80202. The current base rent under the lease is $10,113 per month,
escalating gradually to $11,593 per month by the final year of the lease.
Effective October 1, 2000 to September 30, 2004, this space was subleased
to a third party for $11,100 per month. The Company is also obligated to
pay, as additional rent, allocable operating costs, most of which will also
trigger additional rental income from the sublessee. During 1998 and 1999,
the Pegasus and K-Fuel segments used a portion of this office space.

    The Company has leased approximately 2,300 square feet of office space
through June 30, 2003, located at 2300 Clarendon Boulevard, Suite 401,
Arlington, Virginia 22201. The base rent under the lease is approximately
$5,078 per month, with escalations of 2.5 percent for each subsequent year
of the lease term. The Company is also obligated to pay, as additional
rent, an allocable share of increases in certain operating costs. The
Company has the option to renew the lease for one additional five-year
term. A portion of this office space is sublet under short-term leases to
third parties.

    Pegasus has leased approximately 7,600 square feet of office space
through October 2004, located at 5970 Heisley Road, Suite 300, Mentor, Ohio
44060. The current base rent under the lease is approximately $7,254 per
month, escalating gradually to $9,146 per month by the final year of the
lease. Pegasus is also obligated to pay, as additional rent, allocable
operating costs. Pegasus has options to renew the lease for two additional
3-year terms, at a base rent escalated by the Consumer Price Index from the
final base rent in the current term.

    The Company, through its KFx Technology, Inc. ("KFxT") subsidiary, owns
a demonstration plant and leases from a subsidiary of Black Hills
Corporation (for nominal rental payments) a research and development
laboratory adjacent to the KFP Facility (the "Gillette Facility"). The
Gillette Facility is located on approximately 80 acres of land, inside the
rail loop of Fort Union Mine, in Campbell County, Wyoming, approximately 5
miles northeast of Gillette, Wyoming. The Gillette Facility is comprised of
three buildings totaling approximately 7,100 square feet.


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    On September 8, 2000, Pavilion Technologies, Inc. ("Pavilion"), a
competitor of Pegasus, served Pegasus with a complaint that it had filed on
August 14, 2000 in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Texas asserting that Pegasus infringed 26 patents allegedly
issued to or licensed by Pavilion (the "Pavilion Lawsuit"). (The Pavilion
Lawsuit was subsequently transferred to the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Ohio.) The Pavilion Lawsuit seeks injunctive
relief, compensatory and treble damages, as well as attorney's fees, costs
and expenses. Pegasus' products employ its own proprietary computer code as
weml as computer code exclusively licensed to Pegasus. On September 15,
2000, the licensor agreed to defend Pegasus in the Pavilion Lawsuit
pursuant to an indemnification provision of the parties' license agreement.
On October 27, 2000, Pegasus filed an answer to the Pavilion Lawsuit
denying the patent infringement claims ("Pegasus' Answer"). The Pegasus
Answer also asserted various counterclaims against Pavilion alleging unfair
competition, deceptive trade practices, defamation, tortious interference
with business relationships and attempted monopolization in violation of
Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act ("Pegasus' Counterclaims"). After
coosultation with counsel, KFx and Pegasus management believe that the
infringement allegations in the Pavilion Lawsuit are objectively baseless
and without merit. On April 11, 2001, Pegasus and Pavilion agreed to
dismiss the Pavilion Lawsuit and the Pegasus Answer, without prejudice, in
order to explore possible business combinations, cooperative relationships
and other alternatives. To the extent that these efforts are not
successful, Pegasus, in coordination with its licensor, intends to
vigorously defend against the Pavilion Lawsuit and to aggressively pursue
the Pegasus Answer and Pegasus Counterclaims. Accordingly, although the
disposition of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, management
does not believe that its ultimate outcome will have a material adverse
effect on the Company's financial position or the results of its
operations.

    On November 4, 1999, Link Resources, Inc., a Georgia corporation,
("Link") and its two shareholders, Linda E. Kobel ("Kobel") and Gary A.
Sanden ("Sanden") filed a complaint against the Company in US District
Court for the District of Colorado. The complaint alleges that KFx, Link,
Kobel and Sanden had entered into an agreement requiring KFx to acquire
Link and that KFx breached such agreement. The complaint seeks damages in
excess of $5.3 million. Although the ultimate resolution of this matter
cannot be predicted with certainty, based on a review of the underlying
facts and discussion with counsel, management believes that this complaint
is without merit. KFx intends to contest this complaint vigorously.
Accordingly, management does not believe that this matter will have a
material impact on the results of operation or financial position of the
Company.


ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    Not applicable.



PART II


ITEM 5. MARKET FOR COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    The Common Stock trades on the American Stock Exchange (under the
trading symbol "KFX"). The following table presents the reported sales
prices on the American Stock Exchange for the two-year period ended
December 31, 2000.

                      Year       Period                High        Low
                      ----       ------                ----        ---
                      2000       First Quarter       $4.9375    $1.6875
                                 Second Quarter       3.6250     1.5000
                                 Third Quarter        3.1875     2.1875
                                 Fourth Quarter       2.9375     1.1875

                      1999       First Quarter       $2.1875    $1.2500
                                 Second Quarter       1.9375      .8750
                                 Third Quarter        1.8750     1.0625
                                 Fourth Quarter       1.7500     1.3125

    As of April 12, 2001, the Company had 191 holders of record of the
Common Stock. This does not include holdings in street or nominee names. On
April 12, 2001, the closing price of the Common Stock on the American Stock
Exchange was $2.45 per share.

    The Company has never paid cash dividends and does not anticipate
paying dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company is also restricted
from paying dividends pursuant to the terms of the Convertible Debenture
Indenture.

    During 2000, the following securities were issued pursuant to an
exemption the Securities Act of 1933, as amended:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                       Consideration            Class of
     Date                         Security Sold                           Received               Persons
     ----                         -------------                        -------------             -------
<S>         <C>                                                       <C>                     <C>
   5/00      Warrants to purchase 1,300,000 shares of Common  Stock          *                 Accredited
             at $3.65 per share, subject to certain adjustments                                 Investor
   7/00      Grant of 56,250 shares of Common Stock                    Professional services   Consultant
   10/00     Grant of 56,250 shares of Common Stock                    Professional services   Consultant
   11/00     80,000 shares of Common Stock                                 2.5% interest         Former
                                                                             in Pegasus         Employee
</TABLE>


    *See discussion of sale of KFP Facility to Black Hills Corporation at
    Part 1, Item 1, Strategic Relationships--Thermo Ecotek Corporation and
    KFx Fuel Partners


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in
conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements and
related notes thereto and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Item 7. The
consolidated statement of operations data for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2000 and the consolidated balance sheet data
at December 31, 2000 and 1999 are derived from the audited consolidated
financial statements indexed on page F-1. The consolidated statement of
oqerations data for each of the two years in the period ended December 31,
1997, and the consolidated balance sheet data at December 31, 1998, 1997
and 1996 are derived from audited consolidated financial statements not
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      2000            1999            1998            1997            1996
                                      ----            ----            ----            ----            ----
Statement of Operations Data
for the Year Ended December 31
<S>                              <C>             <C>              <C>             <C>             <C>
     Operating revenues          $   2,124,770    $  2,850,800   $   2,220,585     $  1,084,823    $  1,596,298
     Operating loss              $  (8,998,405)   $ (7,477,042)  $  (6,419,014)    $ (4,930,551)   $ (4,827,874)
     Net loss                    $ (12,290,172)   $(12,730,427)  $  (6,783,817)    $ (5,095,160)   $ (5,628,541)
     Basic and diluted net
     loss per share              $        (.49)   $       (.53)  $        (.28)    $       (.21)   $       (.25)
     Weighted average shares
     of common stock outstanding    24,908,000      24,137,000      23,931,000       23,820,000      22,458,000


Balance    Sheet    Data   at
December 31
     Current assets              $   1,294,431    $  1,605,466   $   7,004,806     $ 14,461,198    $  1,957,005
     Working capital             $  (4,965,927)   $ (3,873,922)  $   4,481,499     $ 12,565,373    $   (166,521)
(deficit)
     Total assets                $   8,471,370    $ 14,267,995   $  22,672,289     $ 29,057,706    $ 14,923,567
     Long-term debt              $  16,670,594    $ 17,484,625   $  17,890,793     $ 17,500,000    $  1,110,000
     Stockholders' equity        $ (17,433,931)   $ (9,696,018)  $   2,258,289     $  8,495,881    $ 10,524,041
(deficit)
</TABLE>

    The Company recorded permanent impairment write-downs of $629,000 and
$4,000,000 in 2000 and 1999, respectively; see Note 7 and Note 6 to the
consolidated financial statements, respectively. The Company recorded a
$464,000 write-down of certain idle equipment at the K-Fuel demonstration
plant and laboratory in 2000; see Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements. The Company acquired Pegasus in 1998; see Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements. The Company issued $17,000,000 of 6%
Convertible Debentures in 1997; see Note 11 to the consolidated financial
statements.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    This annual report includes forward-looking  statements.  We have based
these   forward-looking   statements  on  our  current   expectations   and
projections  about future  events based on our knowledge of facts as of the
date of this annual report and our assumptions  about future events.  These
forward-looking  statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties,
not limited to those discussed under "Risk Factors," that may be outside of
our control, including, but not limited to:

     o   adverse market and various other conditions that could impair the
         Company's ability to obtain needed financing;

     o   actions or the inaction of the Company's strategic partners;

     o   the breadth or degree of protection available to the Company's
         intellectual property;

     o   availability of key management and skilled personnel;

     o   competition and technological developments by competitors;

     o   lack of market interest in the Company's existing products and any
         new products or services;

     o   changes in environmental, electric utility and other governmental
         regulations;

     o   unanticipated problems that could arise in research and
         development activities;

     o   cost overruns, delays and other problems that may occur in
         developing, permitting, financing or constructing K-Fuel
         production facilities;

     o   the availability of Section 29 or similar tax credits related to
         any future K-Fuel production facilities; and

     o   domestic and international economic and political developments.

    We use words like "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "will,"
"estimate," "project," "plan," and similar expressions to help identify
forward-looking statements in this annual report.

    For additional factors that could affect the validity of our
forward-looking statements, you should read "Risk Factors" contained in
Part I, Item 1 of this annual report, "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained in Part II,
Item 7 of this annual report and "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements" contained in Part II, Item 8 of this annual report. The
forward-looking statements included in this annual report are subject to
additional risks and uncertainties not disclosed in this annual report,
some of which are not known or capable of being know by the Company. The
information contained in this annual report is subject to change without
notice. Readers should review future reports that we file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. In light of these and other risks,
uncertainties and assumptions, actual events or results may be very
different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements
in this annual report or may not occur. We have no obligation to publicly
update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.


OVERVIEW

    Through the acquisition of 60% of Pegasus in early 1998, KFx
significantly broadened its technology solutions, by adding NeuSIGHT(TM),
Pegasus' neural network based combustion optimization software, to K-Fuel
Technology, its patented clean coal technology. This step was taken in
order to better meet the evolving needs of the electric power industry that
are being stimulated by domestic industry deregulation and increasingly
stsingent air quality standards worldwide. In August 1999, KFx increased
its ownership of Pegasus to 75% and during 2000, KFx sold 4% of its
interest in Pegasus to Kennecott Energy for $1 million, KFx converted $3.6
million of debt Pegasus owed to it into convertible preferred stock and
Kennecott Energy invested $2,000,000 into Pegasus in the form of
convertible preferred stock.

    As a result of the additional investments by Kennecott Energy in
Pegasus Preferred Stock through April 13, 2001 and KFx's sale of a portion
of its Pegasus Preferred Stock through April 13, 2001 to Evergreen and
other private investors, the ownership of Pegasus at April 13, 2001 is
approximately as follows: KFx--57.9%, Pegasus founders--16.0%, Kennecott
Energy--14.9%, Evergreen Resources, Inc.--8.8% and other private
investors--2.4%.

    Pegasus operations in 2000 were significantly hampered by confusion in
the power generation industry as to the manner of achieving compliance with
certain aspects of the CAA, due to legal challenges brought against certain
EPA initiatives directed at the reduction of NOX emissions as well as a
patent infringement suit brought by Pavilion in the third quarter of 2000.

     During 2000 and early 2001, various court actions affirmed most of the
EPA's NOX initiatives as well as EPA's authority to promulgate these and
similar air quality regulations (which authority had been legally
challenged). Accordingly, the power generation industry is resuming efforts
to determine the manner in which it will comply with the EPA NOX
initiatives.

     On April 11, 2001, Pegasus and Pavilion agreed to dismiss the Pavilion
Lawsuit and the Pegasus Answer, without prejudice, in order to explore
possible business combinations, cooperative relationships and other
alternatives. To the extent that these efforts are not successful, Pegasus,
in coordination with its licensor, intends to vigorously defend against the
Pavilion Lawsuit and to aggressively pursue the Pegasus Answer and Pegasus
Counterclaims. See also Part I--Item 3--Legal Proceedings.

     In 2000, Pegasus hired a new CEO, Gary Nicholson, with a uniquely
suited background in power generation information technology, control
systems and systems integration, coal mining and a strong base of
management and marketing skills. During 2000, under his leadership,
Pegasus' achievements included the completion of several outstanding
installation projects with improved customer satisfaction, the introduction
of another improvement to NeuSIGHT to further streamline installation
efforts, the receipt of an order for the installation of NeuSIGHT in China
and the initiation of an exclusive licensing arrangement for China with an
experienced local partner with strong US ties. Despite the difficulties
imposed by the legal challenges to the EPA's NOX initiatives and the
Pavilion lawsuit, Pegasus achieved improved revenue growth from 1999 to
2000 of 23% compared to a 16% increase in revenues from 1998 to 1999.

    In early 2000, after completion of an analysis of issues impacting the
growth and success of Pegasus, the Company decided to move the Denver,
Colorado headquarters activities of Pegasus, which included marketing and
sales administration, general accounting and financial reporting, to the
Pegasus Cleveland, Ohio area offices which include its operations and
research and development activities. This move was substantially completed
during the second quarter of 2000, and has provided more effective
management and coordination of and communication among Pegasus' various
activities.

    Progress to commercialize K-Fuel Technology continued during 2000,
culminating with the announcement in early 2001 of the successful
demonstration of an improved coal upgrading process resulting from the
joint efforts of KFx and Kennecott Energy, through the K-Fuel, LLC joint
venture. This 16-month project, performed by Kennecott Energy's affiliate,
Rio Tinto Technical Services, evaluated historical information, issues
impacting the operations of the existing Gillette commercial K-Fuel
facility, off-the-shelf equipment, and methods to achieve continuous
operations to improve the economics of the production process. The
principal differences from the K-Fuel Series C process previously used are
continuous operations, lower temperatures, and the absence of superheat
from the system.

    The resulting product, which in the tests was produced from PRB coals,
is low in SO2, NOX, mercury and chlorine, similar to K-Fuel. The analysis
also indicated that an improved process can possibly be designed to produce
the new fuel within potentially attractive economic constraints and that
tie K-Fuel production process proposed as a result of the project should be
more reliable than the current Gillette commercial plant and have lower
capital and operating costs than any previous design.

    The heating value of the new fuel as tested is approximately 11,200 to
11,600 Btu's per pound. Upon combustion, the new fuel produces
approximately 20% lower NOX emissions and lower mercury emissions, as
compared to the PRB feedstock coal (already the lowest mercury content coal
naturally available), and SO2 emissions well below the 1.0 lb per million
Btu limit contained in Phase II of the CAA.

    In addition, K-Fuel LLC believes that there may be considerable
advantages to blending the new product and raw PRB coal. The dust and
self-heating behaviors of a blend of the new product and raw PRB coal
appear to be similar to raw PRB coal, without the need for oil or other
treatment. The blend retains proportional NOX, SO2 and mercury reduction
benefits. Accordingly, a commercial plant for the new product may be
leveraged to provide considerably higher volumes of blended product for the
market place.

    On May 9, 2000, the Company closed a series of agreements with various
pasties intended to initiate the redevelopment of the KFP Facility. Among
other things, as a result of these agreements (a) a subsidiary of Black
Hills Corporation (BKH) purchased the KFP Facility and received 2 million
shares of KFx common stock previously held by TCK in exchange for the
assumption of the reclamation liability associated with the KFP Facility,
(b) KFx granted BKH a warrant to purchase 1.3 million shares of KFx common
stock at $3.65 per share, subject to certain adjustments, (c) KFx
relinquished its 5% interest in KFP to TCK and provided certain releases to
TCK in exchange for approximately $1.5 million, (d) TCK sold the remaining
2.25 million common shares of KFx it owned to private investors and
canceled the warrants it held to purchase a control position in KFx's
common stock. KFx and BKH are proceeding to finalize plans and secure the
necessary capital to rectify certain design flaws in the balance-of-plant
systems in order to restart the KFP Facility and produce K-Fuel. The cost
to implement these plans is currently estimated at $2 million to $4
million.

    During 2000 and before, management of the Company has been evaluating
various alternatives to raise capital and improve its balance sheet. The
Pavilion Lawsuit filed in the third quarter of 2000, precluded many of the
opuions that had been considered, some of which were in the process of
being implemented at the time the Pavilion Lawsuit was filed. With the
April 11, 2001 settlement of the Pavilion Lawsuit, the Company immediately
resumed its efforts to raise needed capital for Pegasus and KFx and is
considering various alternative relationships with Pavilion.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

Pegasus Software License and Services Revenue

    The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with the provisions of
Statement of Position 97-2, "Software Revenue Recognition." The Company
derives revenues from license fees, for the Company's NeuSIGHT software,
and services, including installation, implementation, maintenance and
training, under the terms of both fixed-price and time-and-materials
contracts. Revenues are not recognized until persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, either by way of a signed contract or signed purchase
order.

    Where services are essential to the functionality of the delivered
software, the license fee and services revenue is generally recognized
using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, as prescribed by
SOP 81-1 "Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain
Production-Type Contracts". The percentage of completion for each contract
is determined based on the ratio of direct labor hours incurred to total
estimated direct labor hours required to complete the contract. The Company
may periodically encounter changes in costs, estimated costs and other
factors that may lead to a change in the original estimated profitability
of a fixed-price contract. In such circumstances, adjustments to cost and
profitability estimates are made in the periods in which the underlying
factors requiring such revisions become known. If such revisions indicate a
loss on a contract, the entire loss is recorded at such time. Amounts
billed in advance of services being performed are recorded as deferred
revenue. Unbilled work-in-progress represents revenue earned but not yet
billable under the terms of fixed price contracts and all such amounts are
expected to be billed in accordance with performance milestones specified
in the contract with the client and collected within twelve months.
Deferred job costs represent up-front hardware costs incurred that will be
amortized to expense over the term of related revenue recognition.

    Services revenue provided under fixed-price contracts is generally
recognized using the percentage completion method of accounting described
above. Revenue from other services provided pursuant to time-and-materials
contracts is recognized as the services are performed. Annual maintenance
revenue is recorded as deferred revenue and recognized ratably over the
service period, which is generally twelve months.


K-Fuel Revenue

    The Company recognizes revenue from K-Fuel licenses, when an agreement
has been signed, all significant obligations have been satisfied, the fee
is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Fees
fsom contract services are recognized as the services are performed.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Year Ended December 31, 2000 vs. Year Ended December 31, 1999

    The consolidated operating loss in 2000 of $8,998,405, which includes
$3,575,622 of non-cash charges, was $1,521,363, or 20%, greater than the
1999 operating loss due primarily to (a) a K-Fuel license fee in 1999 that
cootributed $750,000 to operating income, with no similar fee in 2000, (b)
a non-cash charge approximating $464,000 at the K-Fuel segment due to the
write-down of certain idle equipment (c) an increase approximating $865,000
in operating losses at Pegasus offset by (d) reduced KFx corporate and
other costs and losses approximating $505,000.

    Consolidated operating revenues decreased approximately $726,000, or
25% from 1999 to 2000 due primarily to (a) the $1 million K-Fuel license
fee from Kennecott Energy in 1999 only, offset by (b) an increase in
Pegasus revenues approximating $358,000, or 23%.

    Consolidated operating costs and expenses in 2000 exceeded the 1999
level by approximately $795,000, or 8%. Pegasus operating costs increases
of approximately $1,223,000 (25%) and the K-Fuel idle equipment write-down
of $464,0000 were offset by the absence of K-Fuel royalty expense in 2000,
that was $250,000 in 1999, a reduction in other operating costs of the
K-Fuel demonstration plant and laboratory approximating $121,000, or 37%,
due to reduced contract revenue and related activity level and cost
reductions at the KFx corporate level approximating $505,000 (16%),
resulting from staff reductions and various other costs reduction measures.

    Pegasus cost increases from 1999 to 2000 included (a) an increase in
cost of sales of $594,000 (50%) resulting from the 23% increase in sales as
well as increased costs associated with ensuring the completion of certain
installations to the satisfaction of customers, (b) a $279,000 (83%)
increase in research and development as a result of more focus on product
improvement and new product development resulting in part from Kennecott
Energy's investments in Pegasus, and (c) a $129,000 (21%) increase in
depreciation and amortization largely due to $115,000 (22%) of additional
goodwill amortization stemming from an addition to goodwill in late 1999.
Marketing, general and administrative costs for Pegasus increased by
approximately $221,000 (8%) from 1999 to 2000, largely due to certain
internal costs associated with the Pavilion Lawsuit that are not subject to
indemnification.

    Declines in KFx corporate and other costs included (a) $457,000 (17%)
in reduced marketing, general and administrative expenses, resulting from
reducing staff and executive office space and related expenses, and (b)
$48,000 (9%) in reduced depreciation and amortization of debt issue costs
resulting from the conversion of $1.9 million of Debentures during 2000.

    Partially offsetting the variances from 1999 to 2000 in the Company's
operating loss, the Company experienced a $1,962,000 net decrease in net
non-operating expense items from 1999 to 2000. This decrease was primarily
due to the net result of (a) a $4,000,000 impairment loss in 1999 related
to the Company's investment in KFP compared to a $629,000 impairment loss
in 2000 related to the Company's investment in Charco Redondo, (b) the
recognition, beginning in 2000 of, the accretion of the maturity premium on
the Company's Debentures, which totaled $1,362,000, and is included in
interest expense, (c) a decline in interest and other income approximating
$359,000, due largely to a $223,000 nonrecurring non cash income item in
1999, as well as a $116,000 decline in interest income due to lower cash
balances, (d) a $134,000 (10%) increase in interest expense associated with
increased borrowings and (e) the absence in 2000 of $452,000 of equity
losses associated with the Company's investment in KFP.

    The factors discussed above combined to produce a 2000 net loss of
$12,290,172, which is approximately 3% below the $12,730,427 net loss for
1999. On a basic and diluted net loss per share basis, the $.49 loss for
2000 is approximately 6% lower than the $.53 loss for 1999 due to the
smaller 2000 net loss as well as 3% increase in the weighted average number
of shares outstanding from 1999 to 2000.

    The Company has not recorded a deferred tax benefit from KFx's and
Pegasus' net operating loss carryforwards, which approximate $42,873,000
aod $4,151,000, respectively, at December 31, 2000, since, based on the
weight of available evidence, both positive and negative, management has
determined that it is more likely than not that the Company's deferred tax
assets will not be realized. Certain limitations apply to the annual amount
of net operating losses that can be used to offset taxable income, after
certain ownership changes, as defined in Section 382 of the Internal
Revenue Code ("Section 382"). Although management does not believe Section
382 places significant limitations on the use of the Company's net
operating loss carryforwards presently, transactions that may be
consummated in order to obtain needed financing may result in ownership
changes that are large enough to trigger the Section 382 limitations. In
the event the Company achieves profitable operations and taxable income,
any significant Section 382 limitation would have the effect of increasing
the Company's income tax liability and reducing available cash resources.


Year Ended December 31, 1999 vs. Year Ended December 31, 1998

    The consolidated operating loss in 1999 of $7,477,000, which includes
$2,765,000 of non-cash charges, was $1,058,000, or 16% greater than the
1998 operating loss due primarily to an increase approximating $2,033,000
in operating losses at Pegasus partially offset by reduced operating losses
for K-Fuel approximating $619,000 and a reduction in KFx corporate and
other costs approximating $356,000.

    Consolidated operating revenues increased approximately $630,000, or
28% from 1998 to 1999 due primarily to the $1 million K-Fuel license fee
from Kennecott Energy. In addition, Pegasus revenues increased
approximately $208,000, or 16%, but K-Fuel contract revenue declined
approximately $578,000, or 65%. This decrease was primarily due to a
$351,000 decline in contract revenues associated with services provided by
the K-Fuel demonstration plant and laboratory to the KFP Facility, stemming
from TCK's suspension of operations at the KFP Facility in June 1999. In
addition, there was a $227,000 decline in revenues from a K-Fuel research
and development contract with a third party, related to the K-Fuel
demonstration plant and laboratory, due to certain administrative changes
at the third party research and development contracting agency.

    Consolidated operating costs and expenses in 1999 exceeded the 1998
level by approximately $1,688,000, or 20%, principally due to increased
costs at Pegasus approximating $2,241,000, partially offset by comparative
declines in K-Fuel costs of $197,000 and in KFx and other costs of
$356,000.

    Pegasus costs increased from 1998 to 1999, in part, because 1998
included three fewer months of Pegasus activity. Pegasus cost increases
included (a) $426,000 (56%) in increased cost of sales associated with
increased revenue, (b) $1,445,000 (118%) increased marketing, general and
administrative costs resulting largely from efforts begun in late 1998 to
develop a professional marketing and sales organization, (c) $197,000
(143%) in research and development costs associated with activities to
develop enhancements to NeuSIGHT and new products and (d) $173,000 (39%) in
depreciation and amortization primarily due to increased goodwill
amortization.

    Declines in K-Fuel costs include $474,000 (53%) in reduced K-Fuel
demonstration plant and laboratory expense associated with the decline in
related revenue discussed above partially offset by a $250,000 royalty
expense associated with the K-Fuel license fee from Kennecott Energy.
Declines in KFx corporate and other costs included (a) $224,000 (8%) in
reeuced marketing, general and administrative expenses and (b) $132,000
(20%) in reduced depreciation and amortization as certain assets became
fully depreciated during 1999.

    In addition to the Company's operating loss, the Company experienced a
$4,889,000 net increase in net non-operating expense items from 1998 to
1999. This increase was primarily due to (a) the recognition in 1998 of a
$701,000 gain on sale of mine, (b) a decline in interest and other income
approximating $320,000, due largely to a decline in the average balance of
cash investments, partially offset by (c) a $175,000 reduction in KFx's
share of losses at K-Fuel, LLC, due to lower R&D expenses, and (d) a
$4,000,000 impairment of the Company's investment in KFP.

    The factors discussed above combined to produce a net loss of
$12,730,427 for 1999, which is $5,946,610 in excess of the 1998 net loss.
On a basic and diluted per share basis, the 1999 loss was $.53 compared to
$.28 in 1998.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

    During 2000, the Company used approximately $5,151,000 of cash for its
operating activities, which included (a) approximately $2,360,000 used to
support and accelerate the growth of Pegasus' business, (b) $1,181,000 used
for interest payments, (c) approximately $1,610,000 used for KFx corporate
and other activities. The principal sources of cash during 2000 were (a)
$3,000,000 from Kennecott Energy associated with its investment in Pegasus
beginning in March (of which $1,000,000 was paid to KFx and $2,000,000 was
invested in Pegasus), (b) the $1,527,000 recovery of the Company's
investment in KFP and (c) $850,000 in net short term borrowings from KFx
directors (of which $250,000 was borrowed by KFx and $600,000 was borrowed
by Pegasus). In addition to cash used for operating activities the Company
also used $532,000 of cash in total as follows: (a) K-Fuel patent
applications ($295,000), (b) repayment of notes related to the 1998
acquisition of Pegasus ($171,000) and (c) purchases of property and
equipment ($66,000).

    During 1999, the Company used approximately $3,458,000 of cash for its
operating activities, which included (a) approximately $1,952,000 used to
support and accelerate the growth of Pegasus' business, (b) $1,148,000 used
for interest payments, and (c) approximately $1,854,000 used for KFx
corporate and other activities. Offsetting these uses of cash was
approximately $1,496,000 of cash provided from the continued development of
the K-Fuel business, principally the June 1999 agreement with Kennecott
Energy which produced net operating cash flow of $1,750,000.

    During 2000 and before, management of the Company has been evaluating
various alternatives to raise capital and improve its balance sheet. The
Pavilion Lawsuit filed in the third quarter of 2000, precluded many of the
options that had been considered, some of which were in the process of
being implemented at the time the Pavilion Lawsuit was filed. With the
April 11, 2001 settlement of the Pavilion Lawsuit, the Company immediately
resumed its efforts to raise needed capital for Pegasus and KFx and is
considering various alternative relationships with Pavilion as discussed
below.

    During 2001, through April 13, the Company raised $1,900,000 in cash
from certain transactions resulting in the sale of a portion (equivalent to
an 11.2% as converted interest in Pegasus) of its preferred stock
investment in Pegasus. KFx is obligated to repurchase this preferred stock
for $2,533,333 within one year of the date it was sold, or earlier in
certain circumstances.

    At December 31, 2000, principal and interest under a promissory note to
the State of Wyoming ("Wyoming") in the amount of $475,000 was due as
follows: (a) February 1, 2001--$5,000 and (b) March 1, 2001--$470,000. The
payment due March 1, 2001 was not paid. The Company initiated discussions
with Wyoming in late February 2001 and on March 12, 2001 consummated an
extension to July 1, 2001 in exchange for (a) a principal payment
approximating $150,400 made on March 9, 2001, (b) a delinquent payment fee
approximating $47,200 made on March 9, 2001, (c) an interest payment
approximating $2,400 made on March 9, 2000, (d) the assignment to Wyoming
of the net sales proceeds of the balance of the Company's preferred stock
investment in Pegasus (with a face value approximating $1 million,
representing an interest in Pegasus approximating 4.4% and (e) a collateral
interest in certain K-Fuel related equipment that is not currently in use.

    Circumstances substantially identical to those in the preceding
paragraph arose relative to promissory notes due Wyoming by KFx's Chairman
and one of his affiliates. The Company agreed in 1994 to indemnify its
Chairman and his affiliate for any payments made under such note, upon his
demand, since their obligation stemmed from their personal guarantee of
certain obligations of the Company that were renegotiated in 1994. During
2000, the Company made related principal and interest payments on behalf of
its Chairman totaling $82,150. In addition, similar payments totaling
$12,210 were made through April 12, 2001. The Company's Chairman and his
affiliate have agreed to waive their indemnification rights for future
payments under certain circumstances. Wyoming issued a notice of default
relative to this note on March 2, 2001, triggering a 10-day cure period. On
March 12, 2001, Wyoming agreed to forebear from collection activities under
this note until July 1, 2001.

    The Company will seek to meet its cash requirements over the balance of
2001 with respect to day-to-day operations and debt service requirements
through (a) cash on hand, which as of April 13, 2001 approximated $306,000;
(b) the net sales proceeds of the balance of the Company's preferred stock
inwestment in Pegasus that has been assigned to Wyoming; (c) approximately
$500,000 of Kennecott Energy's discretionary investments in Pegasus
pursuant to provisions of the agreements executed in March 2000; (d)
potential investments in Pegasus from interested participants in the power
generation industry; (e) potential debt and/or equity offerings of the
Company; (f) potential fees from licensing new K-Fuel facilities; (g)
potential partners in connection with opportunities to expand the Company's
product and service offerings to the power industry; (g) potential contract
revenues relating to the K-Fuel demonstration plant and laboratory; and (h)
unsecured borrowings from one or more of its directors.

    The Company has contacted and has been contacted by several large
suppliers to the power generation industry about the potential of making an
investment in Pegasus. In addition, the Company is considering the
potential for debt and/or equity offerings by the Company and/or Pegasus
and has had related discussions with investment banking firms. At this
stage, discussions with all of these parties are preliminary, but the
Company intends to continue such discussions and negotiate definitive
agreements if acceptable terms can be reached.

    The Company is continuing to work toward its goal of licensing a large
commercial K-Fuel plant to Kennecott Energy.

    The Company has had discussions with various parties about potential
transactions to add product and/or service offerings relevant to the power
generation industry. Such discussions have included consideration of
acquisitions and related transactions to raise equity capital for the
Company and/or Pegasus. Although currently there are no active discussions,
the Company will continue to evaluate the merits of pursuing such a
strategy, in view of the Company's evolving financial condition. In
adeition, from time to time, directors of the Company have provided to the
Company short term unsecured financing and the Company expects that such
financing, on at least a short-term basis, will continue to be available if
needed.

    Depending on the outcome of various uncertainties, including those
discussed herein, the Company may be required to seek additional debt
and/or equity financing for general operating purposes and/or to meet debt
service requirements. The timing of collection of accounts receivable and
payment of accounts payable could significantly alter the Company's need
for at least temporary financing. Should the Company be required to seek
any additional debt and/or equity financing, its ability to do so will be
affected by the terms of the Debentures, which contain a number of
restrictions including (a) limitations on the Company's ability to incur
secured and unsecured debt, (b) limitations on the Company's ability to
sell assets or enter into merger agreements, and (c) provisions that would
reduce the Debenture conversion price from $3.65 per share, if the Company
sells KFx Common Stock is sold at a price below $3.65 per share.

    There are no assurances that any of these potential funding sources
will materialize, and the Company does not currently have any commitments
with respect to any such funding sources. If the overall outcome of the
various uncertainties affecting the Company is not favorable, the Company
may be forced to seek debt and/or equity financing on terms and conditions
that may be unfavorable to the Company, if available at all. If the Company
requires additional financing and cannot obtain it when needed, the Company
may default on payments when due. Should the Company not be successful in
achieving one or more of the financing alternatives discussed above, it is
possible that the Company may not be able to continue as a going concern.


NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

    In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements,"
(the "Bulletin"), which addresses revenue recognition issues. The
implementation of the Bulletin was delayed until the fourth quarter of 2000
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1999. The application of the
Bulletin was retroactive to January 1, 2000. The impact of the Bulletin on
the Company's consolidated financial statements was not material.

    In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." This statement establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and for
hedging activities. SFAS No. 133 requires, among other things, that all
desivative instruments be recognized at fair value as assets or liabilities
on the balance sheet and that changes in fair value generally be recognized
currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.
Because the Company does not hold any derivative financial instruments and
has not engaged in hedging activities, the Company does not expect the
adoption of SFAS 133 to have a material impact on its consolidated results
of operations, financial position or cash flows. The Company will adopt the
provisions of SFAS 133 in the first quarter of 2001.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    The Company is not currently subject to a significant level of direct
market risk related to interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates,
commodity prices or equity prices. The Company has no derivative
instruments and only $850,000 of floating rate debt and does not expect to
derive a material amount of its revenues from interest bearing securities.
Currently the Company has no significant foreign operations. To the extent
that the Company establishes significant foreign operations in the future,
it will attempt to mitigate risks associated with foreign currency exchange
rates contractually and through the use of hedging activities and other
means considered appropriate. The Company is indirectly exposed to
fluctuations in fuel commodity prices. To the extent that fuel prices rise,
there may be a tendency for greater demand for certain of the Company's
products and services, since K-Fuel and NeuSIGHT have been shown to result
in lower usage of coal and coal beneficiated fuel products when used to
generate electric power. The Company's fuel-related products provide
various environmental benefits that management believes significantly
mitigate the fuel commodity risk associated with the Company's business.
The Company holds no equity market securities, but does face equity market
risk relative to its own equity securities.


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA

    The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in
this item are indexed on page F-1 "Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements."

    Unaudited selected quarterly financial data for the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 1999 is included at Note 19 to the consolidated
financial statements.


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

    None.




PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

         The required information for this item is incorporated by
reference to the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         The required information for this item is incorporated by
reference to the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of
Siareholders.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         The required information for this item is incorporated by
regerence to the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         The required information for this item is incorporated by
reference to the Company's Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.




PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (a)    (1) List of Financial Statements

                  See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements at F-1

         (2) List of Financial Statement Schedules

                  None

         (3) Exhibits

  EXHIBIT
  NUMBER         DESCRIPTION
  -------        -------------------------------------------------------------

  3.1(1)         Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
  3.2(1)         Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation
                 of the Company
  3.3(5)         Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company
  4.1(5)         Sample Common Stock Certificate
  4.2(9)         Indenture dated July 25, 1997 by and between the Company
                 and Colorado National Bank
  4.3(2)         Form of Warrant to Purchase Common Stock issued to
                 Placement Agents in connection with issuance of 6%
                 Convertible Debentures, due 2002
  4.4(11)        Company Stock Purchase Warrant dated June 19, 1997 and
                 Amendment No. 2 dated August 3, 1998 between the Company
                 and Peter G. Martin
  4.5(11)        Common Stock Purchase Warrant dated August 2, 1995 and
                 Amendment No. 1 dated August 3, 1998 between the Company
                 and Peter G. Martin
  4.6(11)        Common Stock Purchase Warrant dated November 15, 1996 and
                 Amendment No. 1 dated August 3, 1998 between the Company
                 and Innovative Research Associates, Inc.
  4.7*           Statement Respecting Rights of Series B Preferred Stock of
                 Pegasus Technologies, Inc.
  4.8*           Statement Respecting Rights of Series C Preferred Stock of
                 Pegasus Technologies, Inc.
  4.9*           Warrants to Purchase 1,000,000 Shares of KFx Inc. Common
                 Stock issued to Evergreen Resources, Inc. as of February
                 9, 2001
  4.10*          Registration Rights Agreement Between the Company and
                 Evergreen Resources, Inc. dated February 9, 2001
  4.11*          Warrants to Purchase 166,667 Shares of KFx Inc. Common
                 Stock issued to William H. Walker as of March 8, 2001
  4.12*          Registration Rights Agreement Between the Company and
                 William H. Walker dated March 8, 2001
  4.13*          Warrants to Purchase 66,667 Shares of KFx Inc. Common
                 Stock issued to Theodore Venners as of March 8, 2001
  4.14*          Registration Rights Agreement Between the Company and
                 Theodore Venners dated March 8, 2001
  4.15*          Warrants to Purchase 33,333 Shares of KFx Inc. Common
                 Stock issued to Mark S. Sexton as of April 10, 2001
  4.16*          Registration Rights Agreement Between the Company and Mark
                 S. Sexton dated April 10, 2001
  4.17*          Warrants to Purchase 1,300,000 Shares of KFx Inc. Common
                 Stock issued to Landrica Development Company as of May 1, 2000.
  4.18*          Registration Rights Agreement Between the Company and Landrica
                 Development Company dated May 1, 2000.
  10.1(1)        Amendments to Agreements between Theodore Venners, S.A.
                 Wilson, Koppelman Fuel Development Company, and the
                 Koppelman Group dated December 29, 1992
  10.2(1)        Assignment of U.S. Patents by K-Fuel Limited Partnership
                 to the Company dated July 23, 1993
  10.3(1)        Assignment of U.S. Trademark Registration by K-Fuel
                 Limited Partnership to the Company dated July 23, 1993
  10.4(1)        Royalty Agreement dated December 29, 1992 between the
                 Company and the Koppelman Group
  10.5(1)        Agreement dated December 19, 1991 among K-Fuel
                 Partnership, Edward Koppelman, K-Fuel Limited Partnership
                 and KSA Inc.
  10.6(1)        Restricted Stock Plan for Directors and Selected Officers
                 dated December 16, 1993
  10.7(4)        Restricted Stock Plan for Selected Independent Contractors
                 dated February 16, 1994
  10.8(1)        Stock Option Plan dated December 16, 1993
  10.9(1)        Settlement Agreement dated December 14, 1992
  10.10(1)       Stock Exchange Agreement Dated December 14, 1992
  10.11(1)       Stipulation and Agreement dated February 28, 1994 between
                 Energy Brothers Technology, Inc., State of Wyoming, the
                 Company, Theodore Venners, Edward Koppelman and Energy
                 Brothers Holding, Inc.
  10.12(4)       Extension of Stock Forfeiture Agreement between Theodore
                 Venners and Rudolph G. Swenson; Joyce M. Goldman; David
                 Bretzlauf; Joseph M. Butler; R.C. Whitner; Hillari
                 Koppelman; Thomas D. Smart and Susan M. Thevenet; Charles
                 F. Vance
  10.13(3)       Common Stock Purchase Agreement dated July 27, 1995
                 between the Company and David H. Russell
  10.14(3)       Gross Royalty Share Agreement dated August 17, 1995
                 between the Company and Fort Union, Ltd.
  10.15(3)       Letter of Agreement dated August 15, 1995 between the
                 Company and Edward Koppelman
  10.16(3)       Assignment dated August 29, 1995 executed by Edward
                 Koppelman in favor of the Company
  10.17(3)       Notice of Termination dated August 16, 1995 between Edward
                 Koppelman and Energy Brothers Holding, Inc.
  10.18(5)       Letter Agreement dated February 28, 1995 between RCD
                 Development and the Company
  10.19(6)       Amended and Restated Heartland License Agreement between
                 Heartland Fuels Corporation and the Company dated April
                 19, 1996
  10.20(7)       Royalty Amendment Agreement dated June 3, 1996 between the
                 Company, Edward Koppelman and Theodore Venners
  10.21(8)       Amendment to Agreement between the Company and RCD
                 Development dated January 16, 1997
  10.22(10)      1998 Directors Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
  10.23(10)      1998 Advisory Committee Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
  10.24(10)      Non-qualified Stock Option Agreement dated October 1, 1998
                 between the Company and Seth L. Patterson
  10.25(11)      Stock Purchase Agreement dated March 26, 1997 between the
                 Company and Theodore Venners
  10.26(11)**    Professional Installation Services Master Agreement dated
                 March 5, 1999, between Net Power Solutions, a subsidiary
                 of the Company, and the Energy Systems Group of Science
                 Applications International Corporation
  10.27(12)      1999 Stock Incentive Plan
  10.28(13)**    First Amended Limited Liability Company Agreement of
                 K-Fuel, L.L.C. dated June 29, 1999
  10.29(15)      Exchange Agreement dated August 27, 1999 between the
                 Company and AIW/P Holdings, Inc.
  10.30(15)      Transfer Agreement dated August 27, 1999 between the
                 Company and AIW/P Holdings, Inc.
  10.31(14)**    Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock Purchase
                 Agreement among Pegasus Technologies, Inc., KFx Inc. and
                 Kennecott Energy Company dated March 3, 2000
  10.32(14)      Pegasus Technologies, Inc. Stockholders and Voting
                 Agreement dated March 3, 2000
  10.33(14)      Marketing Services Agreement dated March 3, 2000 among
                 Pegasus Technologies, Inc., Net Power Solutions, LLC,
                 KFuel LLC, KFx Inc. and Kennecott Energy Company
  10.34*         1996 Stock Option and Incentive Plan of KFx Inc.
  21.1*          Subsidiaries
  23.1*          Consent of Independent Accountants
  34.1*          Powers of Attorney, incorporated by reference to Signature
                 page





  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

*     Filed herewith.
**  Certain portions of this Exhibit were omitted based upon a request for
    confidential treatment. The omitted portions were separately filed with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(1)  Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission on March 1, 1994 as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-SB
     and incorporated herein by reference.
(2)  Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August
     22, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.
(3)  Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Company's Registration Statement on Form SB-2
     (File No. 33-97418) and incorporated herein by reference.
(4)  Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Company's Registration Statement on Form SB-2
     (File No. 33-90128) and incorporated herein by reference.
(5)  Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-KSB, as
     amended, for the year ended December 31, 1995 and incorporated herein
     by reference.
(6)  Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated April
     19, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.
(7)  Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
     quarter ended June 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.
(8)  Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
     ended December 31, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.
(9)  Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
     ended December 31, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.
(10) Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
     ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.
(11) Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
     quarter ended March 31, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference.
(12) Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission on May 4, 1999 as Annex A-1 of the Company's Proxy
     Statement on Schedule 14A and incorporated herein by reference.
(13) Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June
     29, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference.
(14) Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
     March 7, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference.
(15) Document previously filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
     Commission with the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
     August 27, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference.


    (b)  Reports on Form 8-K


    No reports on Form 8-K were filed in the quarter ended December 31, 2000.




SIGNATURES

    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE
SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.

Daue: April 16, 2001                  KFX INC.

                                      By: /s/Theodore Venners
                                      -----------------------------------------
                                      Theodore Venners
                                      Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                                         President, and Chief Executive Officer




    POWER OF ATTORNEY

    KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature
appears below constitutes and appoints Theodore Venners and Seth L.
Patterson, and each of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in
his name, place, stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all
amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all
exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, including
all amendments thereto, with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing
requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all
intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying
and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them,
or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof.

    PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

     SIGNATURE                              TITLE                                         DATE
     ---------                              -----                                         ----

<S>                                       <C>                                           <C>
     /s/Theodore Venners
     -----------------------------
     Theodore Venners                       Chairman of the Board of Directors,           April 16, 2001
                                            President and Chief Executive Officer
                                            (Principal Executive Officer)
     /s/Seth L. Patterson
     -----------------------------
     Seth L. Patterson                      Executive Vice President and                  April 16, 2001
                                            Chief Financial Officer
                                            (Principal Financial and Accounting
                                            Officer)
     /s/Stanford M. Adelstein
     -----------------------------
     Stanford M. Adelstein                  Director                                      April 16, 2001


     /s/Vincent N. Cook
     -----------------------------
     Vincent N. Cook                        Director                                      April 16, 2001


     /s/Gary Nicholson
     -----------------------------
     Gary Nicholson                         Director                                      April 16, 2001


     /s/Jack C. Pester
     -----------------------------
     Jack C. Pester                         Director                                      April 16, 2001


     /s/David H. Russell
     -----------------------------
     David H. Russell                       Director                                      April 16, 2001


     /s/Mark S. Sexton
     -----------------------------
     Mark S. Sexton                         Director                                      April 16, 2001


     /s/Stanley G. Tate
     -----------------------------
     Stanley G. Tate                        Director                                      April 16, 2001

</TABLE>



                 INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



     Report of Independent Accountants............................         F-2


     Consolidated Balance Sheets..................................         F-3


     Consolidated Statements of Operations........................         F-4


     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Deficit.............         F-5


     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows........................         F-6


     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements................... F-8 to F-29




                     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of KFx Inc.

    In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the
related consolidated statements of operations, of stockholders' deficit and
of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of KFx Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2000 and 1999,
ane the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2000, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements
in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America which require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

    The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared
assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in
Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company has suffered recurring
losses and negative cash flows from operations and has an accumulated
deficit of $71,091,304 at December 31, 2000. These factors, among others,
raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going
concern. Management's plans in regard to these matters are also described
in Note 1. The consolidated financial statements do not include any
adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.



/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Denver, Colorado
April 13, 2001



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                  KFX INC.

                        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                                                                        DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                        ------------
                                                                                  2000                1999
                                                                                  ----                ----
ASSETS
Current assets
<S>                                                                        <C>                 <C>
     Cash and cash equivalents.........................................    $      348,955      $      654,429
     Trade accounts receivable.........................................           351,909             606,326
     Unbilled revenue..................................................           118,103              66,994
     Other receivables.................................................           224,853              24,252
     Prepaid expenses..................................................            34,459              69,715
     Deferred job costs................................................           216,152             183,750
                                                                              -----------         -----------
          Total current assets.........................................         1,294,431           1,605,466
Property, plant and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation.........         1,360,430           2,258,426
Patents, net of accumulated amortization...............................         1,951,567           2,297,708
Investment in and advances to KFx Fuel Partners, L.P. .................                --           1,527,048
Iovestmentin K-Fuel, L.L.C. ...........................................           694,135           1,171,585
Investment in Charco Redondo, L.L.C. ..................................                --             629,238
Goodwill, net of accumulated amortization..............................         1,817,731           2,298,250
Debt issue costs, net of accumulated amortization......................           679,046           1,246,565
Prepaid royalty........................................................           498,000             498,000
Other assets...........................................................           176,030             735,709
                                                                              -----------         -----------
TOTAL ASSETS                                                               $    8,471,370      $   14,267,995
                                                                           ==============      ================

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' DEFICIT
Current liabilities
     Accounts payable..................................................       $ 1,817,533         $   551,193
     Accrued expenses..................................................           625,523             308,102
     Interest payable..................................................           458,265             543,068
     Liability to issue stock and warrants.............................           134,458           2,200,000
     Deferred sale of Pegasus Technologies Inc. common stock...........         1,000,000                  --
     Deferred revenue..................................................           523,552             985,858
     Short-term notes payable to directors ............................           827,551                  --
     Current maturity of long-term debt................................           873,476             891,167
                                                                              -----------         -----------
          Total current liabilities....................................         6,260,358           5,479,388
Deferred income........................................................           499,309           1,000,000
Deferred revenue.......................................................           200,000                  --
Long-term debt, less current maturities................................           331,150             484,625
Convertible debentures.................................................        16,339,444          17,000,000
                                                                              -----------         -----------
          Total liabilities............................................        23,630,261          23,964,013
                                                                              -----------         -----------
Commitments and contingencies (Note 15)
Minority interest......................................................         2,275,040                  --
                                                                             ------------      --------------
Stockholders' deficit
      Preferred stock, $.001 par value, 20,000,000 shares authorized;
        none issued                                                                    --                  --
     Common stock, $.001 par value, 80,000,000 shares authorized;
        25,196,280 and 24,482,240 shares issued and outstanding,
        respectively...................................................            25,196              24,482
     Additional paid-in capital........................................        53,632,177          49,080,632
     Accumulated deficit...............................................       (71,091,304)        (58,801,132)
                                                                              -----------         -----------
          Total stockholders' deficit..................................       (17,433,931)         (9,696,018)
                                                                              -----------          ----------
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' DEFICIT............................    $    8,471,370     $    14,267,995
                                                                           ===============     ===============

                The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                  KFX INC.

                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS


                                                                                  YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                  -----------------------
                                                                           2000                1999              1998
                                                                           ----                ----              ----
OPERATING REVENUES
<S>                                                                   <C>                  <C>                <C>
Pegasus software licenses and services............................... $ 1,894,994          $ 1,536,884        $ 1,328,491
K-Fuel demonstration plant and laboratory contract revenue...........     229,776              313,916            892,094
K-Fuel license fee...................................................          --            1,000,000                 --
                                                                      -----------          -----------        -----------
     Total operating revenues........................................   2,124,770            2,850,800          2,220,585
                                                                      -----------          -----------        -----------
OPERATING COSTS & EXPENSES
Cost of Pegasus software licenses and services.......................   1,775,780            1,181,321            755,281
K-Fuel demonstration plant and laboratory............................     781,488              414,246            888,616
K-Fuel royalty.......................................................          --              250,000                 --
Marketing, general and administrative................................   5,123,026            5,394,970          4,146,797
Pegasus research and development.....................................     614,410              335,766            138,335
Depreciation and amortization........................................   2,828,471            2,751,539          2,710,570
                                                                      -----------          -----------        -----------
     Total operating costs and expenses..............................  11,123,175           10,327,842          8,639,599
                                                                      -----------          -----------        -----------
OPERATING LOSS.......................................................  (8,998,405)          (7,477,042)        (6,419,014)
Interest and other income............................................     (11,381)             347,459            667,702
Interest expense (including accretion of debenture premium)..........  (2,655,628)          (1,160,098)        (1,159,925)
Equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates.................       4,242             (440,746)          (573,080)
Impairment losses....................................................    (629,000)          (4,000,000)                --
Gain of sale of mine.................................................          --                   --            700,500
                                                                      -----------          -----------        -----------

NEU LOSS............................................................$ (12,290,172)     $   (12,730,427)   $   (6,783,817)
                                                                   --------------      ----------------   ---------------

BASIC AND DILUTED NET LOSS PER COMMON SHARE                         $        (.49)     $          (.53)   $         (.28)
                                                                   --------------      ----------------   ---------------

Weighted average common shares outstanding..........................   24,908,000           24,137,000        23,931,000
                                                                   ===============     ================   ===============


                                         The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                                                  consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>




                                  KFX INC.

              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' DEFICIT


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                    Additional
                                                                          Common Stock                Paid-in          Accumulated
                                                                      Shares       Amount             Capital            Deficit
                                                                      ------       ------             -------            -------
<S>                                                            <C>           <C>              <C>                <C>
  Balance, December 31, 1997............................          23,926,040  $      23,926    $    47,758,843    $   (39,286,888)
  Warrants and options issued for services..............                  --             --            196,000                 --
  Options issued in connection with acquisition (Note 2)                  --             --            253,750                 --
  Stock issued for services.............................              25,700             26             96,349                 --
  Net loss..............................................                  --             --                 --         (6,783,817)
                                                                -------------  -------------    ---------------    ---------------
  Balance, December 31, 1998............................          23,951,740         23,952         48,304,942        (46,070,705)
  Stock issued in connection with acquisition (Note 2)..             527,000            527            762,569                 --
  Stock issued for services.............................               3,500              3             13,121                 --
  Net loss..............................................                  --             --                 --        (12,730,427)
                                                                -------------  -------------    ---------------    --------------
  Balance, December 31, 1999............................          24,482,240         24,482         49,080,632        (58,801,132)
  Stock issued for converted debentures (Note 11)......              520,540            521          1,902,587                 --
  Issuance of warrants (Note 6).........................                  --             --          2,200,000                 --
  Stock issued for services.............................             113,500            113            283,038                 --
  Stock issued in connection with acquisition (Note 2)..              80,000             80            165,920                 --
  Net loss..............................................                  --             --                 --        (12,290,172)
                                                               -------------  -------------    ---------------    ---------------
  Balance, December 31, 2000............................          25,196,280  $      25,196    $    53,632,177    $   (71,091,304)
                                                               =============  =============    ===============    ================


                                         The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                                                  consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>




                                  KFX INC.

                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                            ----------------------
                                                                                2000                1999                1998
                                                                                ----                ----                ----
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
<S>                                                                       <C>                  <C>                  <C>
   Net loss.............................................................. $  (12,290,172)      $  (12,730,427)      $  (6,783,817)
   Adjustments to reconcile net loss to cash used in operating
   activities:
          Depreciation and amortization..................................      2,828,471            2,751,539           2,710,570
          Impairment losses..............................................        629,000            4,000,000                  --
          Gain on sale of mine...........................................             --                   --            (700,500)
          Equity in (income) loss of unconsolidated affiliates...........         (4,242)             440,746             573,080
          Accretion of debenture premium.................................      1,361,893                   --                  --
          Amortization of debt discount..................................        192,591                   --                  --
          Common stock issued for services...............................        283,151               13,124             292,375
          Other, net.....................................................        505,000                   --             (81,070)
   Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
          Accounts receivable, unbilled revenue, and deferred job costs..        (29,695)             870,355            (482,823)
          Deferred revenue...............................................       (262,306)                  --                  --
          Due to related parties.........................................             --             (471,504)            (41,131)
          Accounts payable and accrued expenses..........................      1,718,219              362,616             (92,493)
          Interest payable...............................................        (84,803)              90,352              86,649
          Deferred income................................................             --            1,000,000                  --
          Other..........................................................          2,076              215,122            (122,898)
                                                                          ---------------      ---------------      --------------
Cash used in operating activities........................................     (5,150,817)          (3,458,077)         (4,642,058)
                                                                          ---------------      ---------------      --------------
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
   Acquisition of Pegasus Technologies, Limited..........................             --                   --          (1,610,657)
   Patent acquisition and pending patent applications....................       (294,623)            (207,183)           (269,016)
   Deferred sale of subsidiary stock.....................................      1,000,000                   --                  --
   Investments in equity and cost basis investees........................             --           (1,000,000)           (943,297}
   Purchases of property and equipment...................................        (65,915)            (111,095)           (302,075)
   Proceeds from sale of investment in KFx Fuel Partners LP                    1,527,048                   --                  --
   Other.................................................................             --                   --            (701,878)
                                                                          ---------------      ---------------      --------------
Cash provided by (used in) investing activities..........................      2,166,510           (1,318,278)         (3,826,923)
                                                                          ---------------      ---------------      --------------
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
   Issuance of preferred stock in subsidiary.............................      2,000,000                   --                  --
   Proceeds from issuance of notes payable...............................                                  --             115,000
   Proceeds of short term notes payable issued to directors..............      1,550,000                   --                  --
   Repayment of short term notes payable to directors ...................       (700,000)                  --                  --
   Payments on notes payable.............................................       (171,167)            (219,208)            (74,800)
                                                                          ---------------      ---------------      --------------
Cash provided by (used in) financing activities..........................      2,678,833             (219,208)             40,200
                                                                          ---------------      ---------------      --------------
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents....................................       (305,474)          (4,995,563)         (8,428,781)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period...........................        654,429            5,649,992          14,078,773
                                                                          ---------------      ---------------      --------------
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF PERIOD                                  $      348,955       $      654,429       $   5,649,992
                                                                          ---------------      ---------------      --------------

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION
Cash paid for interest.................................................   $    1,186,162       $    1,148,037       $   1,130,437
                                                                          ===============      ===============      ==============

                                         The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
                                                  consolidated financial statements.
</TABLE>




                                  KFX INC.

              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS-continued


SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NON-CASH INVESTING AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES


Year Ended December 31, 2000

         Convertible Debentures with a face value of $1,900,000 were
converted, under the stated terms of $3.65 per share, into 520,540 shares
of the Company's common stock resulting in an addition to stockholders'
equity approximating $1,903,000, including a pro rata portion of accreted
premium, net of a pro rata portion of unamortized debt issue costs; see
Note 11.

         Warrants valued at $2,200,000 to purchase 1,300,000 shares of KFx
common stock at $3.65 per share were issued in the May 2000; see Note 3.

         In connection with obtaining a $400,000 unsecured line of credit
from a KFx director, Pegasus issued warrants valued at $215,000 to purchase
new shares of Pegasus Common Stock equivalent to an approximate 1.5% equity
interest in Pegasus; see Note 6.

         The Company issued 80,000 shares of its common stock in exchange
for Pegasus Common Stock equivalent to an approximate 2.3% equity interest
in Pegasus; see Note 2. Using the approximate market price of KFx Common
Stock at the date of the exchange, the Company recorded this transaction at
approximately $166,000.


Year Ended December 31, 1999

         The Company issued 527,000 of its common stock in exchange for an
adeitional 15% interest in Pegasus. Using the approximate market price of
KFx Common Stock at the date of the exchange, the Company recorded this
transaction at approximately $763,000.


Year Ended December 31, 1998

         The Company issued a $600,000 note payable as part of the
consideration for the acquisition of Pegasus; see Note 2.




                                  KFX INC.

                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES


Going Concern Uncertainty

    The accompanying financial statements have been prepared on a going
concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the
satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company
has incurred losses of approximately $12,290,000, $12,730,000 and
$6,784,000 and negative cash flow from operations of $5,151,000, $3,458,000
and $4,642,000 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, and had an accumulated
deficit of approximately $71,091,000 as of December 31, 2000. These factors
coupled with the need for additional financing to fund planned growth in
the business raise substantial doubt about whether the Company can continue
as a going concern.

    In order to mitigate this uncertainty, the Company intends to seek
further capital through various means which may include the sale of a
portion of its interest in Pegasus, additional sales of debt or equity
securities, a business combination or other means and to further reduce
expenditures as necessary. See Note 11 for a description of certain
limitations on the Company's ability to obtain financing. Should the
Company not be successful in achieving one or more of these actions, it is
possible that the Company may not be able to continue as a going concern.
The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that
might result from the outcome of this uncertainty


Nature of Operations

    The Company is engaged in developing and delivering various technology
and service solutions to the electric power generation industry to
facilitate the industry's compliance with air emission standards and
transformation to intensive competition as the domestic power industry
undergoes deregulation.

    Currently the Company has technology solutions that enhance the output
of coal-fired electric utility boilers while simultaneously reducing the
related environmental impacts. The patented K-Fuel(TM) Technology ("K-Fuel
Technology") uses heat and pressure to physically and chemically transform
high-moisture, low-energy value coal and other organic feedstocks into a
low-moisture, high-energy solid clean fuel ("K-Fuel"). KFx plans to license
K-Fuel Technology domestically and internationally to various parties
wishing to construct and operate K-Fuel production facilities.

    In 1998, through the acquisition of a controlling interest in Pegasus,
the Company added NeuSIGHTTM ("NeuSIGHT") to its solutions. NeuSIGHT is the
leading combustion optimization product for coal- fired electric utility
boilers, which, in addition to improving boiler efficiency, reduces NOX
emissions. NeuSIGHT is a neural network-based (i.e., artificial
intelligence) software technology. Pegasus developed NeuSIGHT and continues
to enhance NeuSIGHT, develop related products and market NeuSIGHT licenses
and related implementation services.


Consolidation Policy

    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of KFx Inc.
("KFx" or the "Company"), its wholly-owned subsidiary, KFx Wyoming, Inc.
("KFxW"), and its majority-owned subsidiaries, Pegasus Technologies, Inc.
("Pegasus"), KFx Technology, Inc. ("KFxT"), and Heartland Fuels Corporation
("HFC"). The Company's 51 percent interest in K-Fuel, L.L.C. ("K-Fuel,
LLC"), is accounted for as an equity investment since the 49 percent
partner, Kennecott Energy, has certain participative rights; accordingly,
the Company cannot control K-Fuel, LLC. Until its sale in May 2000, the
Company's 5 percent interest in KFx Fuel Partners, L.P. ("KFP") was
accounted for as equity investments since the Company was a non controlling
investor in KFP.


Fair Value of Financial Instruments

    The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable,
accounts payable, accrued liabilities and the current portion of long-term
obligations in the consolidated financial statements approximate fair value
because of the short-term maturity of the instruments. The fair value of
long-term obligations for long-term debt and the Convertible Debentures was
estimated by discounting the related future cash flows using market
interest rates and estimated market values. The fair value of such
long-term obligations at December 31, 2000 is estimated at $9,500,000,
which is approximately $7,200,000 less than the amount reflected in the
consolidated financial statements.


Long-Lived Assets

    The Company evaluates long-lived assets based on estimated future
undiscounted net cash flows whenever significant events or changes in
circumstances occur which indicate the carrying amount may not be
recoverable. If that evaluation indicates that an impairment has occurred,
any loss is measured based on a comparison of discounted cash flows or fair
values, whichever is more readily determinable, to the carrying value of
the related asset.

    During 2000, the Company recorded a $464,000 impairment provision to
reduce certain equipment to estimated salvage value; the provision is
included in the operating costs of the K-Fuel demonstration plant and
laboratory. Although the Company expects to ultimately utilize this
equipment in the construction of a plant to convert biomass materials to a
fuel product, using Series "A" and Series "B" K-Fuel Technology, it has not
yet been able to obtain financing for such a project and the prospects of
obtaining such financing are not clear.


Property, Plant, and Equipment

    Property, plant, and equipment are recorded at cost. Expenditures that
extend the useful lives of assets are capitalized. Repairs and maintenance
that do not extend the useful lives of the assets are expensed as incurred.
Depreciation expense is computed using the straight-line method over the
following estimated useful lives:

    Plant, machinery and equipment.......................... 7-15 years
    Office furniture and equipment.......................... 3-5 years


Patents

    The costs of obtaining new patents are capitalized; costs of defending
and maintaining patents are expensed as incurred. Patents are amortized
over the lives of the respective patents of 17 to 20 years for domestic
patents and 5 to 20 years for foreign patents.


Goodwill

    Goodwill, which was recorded in connection with the acquisition of
Pegasus using the purchase accounting method, is amortized on a
straight-line basis over an estimated useful life of five years from
acquisition date.


Deferred Financing Costs

    The Company capitalized issuance costs related to the convertible
debentures. These costs are amortized over the life of the debentures using
the straight-line method, the results of which are not materially different
than using the effective interest method.


Research and Development Costs

    Research and development costs related to Pegasus software development
are expensed as incurred. Such costs are required to be expensed until such
time as technological feasibility of the product, process or improvement
thereto is established, after which remaining costs can be capitalized
until general availability of the product. The period of time between
achieving technological feasibility and general availability is typically
short. To date, software development costs qualifying for capitalization
have been insignificant; accordingly, the Company has not capitalized any
software development costs.


Stock Based Compensation

    The Company periodically grants qualified and non-qualified stock
options to certain executive officers, non-employee directors, other key
employees and certain consultants under three stock option plans as well as
outside these plans. Stock options granted are accounted for in accordance
with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,"Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees," ("APB25"), which generally provides that no
compensation expense is recorded in connection with the granting of stock
options if the options are granted at prices at least equal to the fair
value of the common stock at date of grant. The fair value disclosures
required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," ("FAS123") are included in Note
13.


Net Loss Per Common Share

    Basic net loss per common share is based on the weighted-average number
of common shares actually outstanding during each respective year. Except
for instances in which there is a net loss, the calculation of diluted net
loss per common share adds the weighted-average number of potential common
shares outstanding to such number of weighted-average common shares
actually outstanding. The Company's potential common shares outstanding at
December 31, 2000 approximate 9,408,000 and result from the conversion
feature of the Convertible Debentures outstanding as described in Note 11,
stock options outstanding as described in Note 13 and warrants to purchase
the Company's common stock as described in Note 14. At December 31, 1999
and 1998, the potential common shares outstanding included potentially
issuable shares as a result of the conversion feature of the Convertible
Debentures, stock options and stock purchase warrants approximating
8,904,000 and 9,289,000, respectively, plus approximately 26 million common
shares potentially issuable as a result of stock purchase warrants to take
a control position in the Company held by Thermo Ecotek Corporation until
May 2000 (see Note 6). All potential common shares outstanding have been
eycluded from diluted net loss per common share because the impact of such
inclusion on a net loss would be anti-dilutive.


Cash and Cash Equivalents

    The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with an
original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. There
were no cash equivalents at December 31, 2000. At December 31, 1999, cash
equivalents included commercial paper and money market accounts of $93,384.
Such amount was carried at amortized cost, which approximated fair market
value. Certain agreements with the minority owners of Pegasus place
restrictions on KFx's access to Pegasus' cash balances; see also Note 2.


Concentrations of Credit Risk

    The Company's clients participate in various aspects of the electric
power generation industry and consist principally of several large
electrical utilities, Kennecott Energy Company and a Wyoming-based
non-profit research organization. Financial instruments, which are
potentially subject to concentrations of credit risk, consist principally
of accounts receivable. The Company considers the credit worthiness of its
clients in negotiating contract terms, which generally do not require
comlateral. At December 31, 2000, three clients accounted for 10% or more
each of consolidated receivables and unbilled revenues (25%, 14%, and 12%).
In addition, approximately 20% of consolidated receivables at December 31,
2000 consists of an amount due to Pegasus in connection with certain
litigation, pursuant to the indemnification provisions of a license
agreement. At December 31, 1999, four clients accounted for 10% or more
each of consolidated receivables and unbilled revenues (26%, 21%, 15%, and
14%).


Estimates

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. Significant
estimates have been made by management with respect to the realizability of
the Company's property, plant and equipment, patents, equity investments,
and prepaid royalty. Actual results could differ from these estimates,
making it possible that a change in these estimates could occur in the near
term.


Comprehensive Income

    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting
Comprehensive Income" establishes standards for reporting comprehensive
iocome and its components in financial statements. Comprehensive income
includes all changes in equity during a period from non-owner sources.
During each of the three years ended December 31, 2000, the Company has not
had any transactions that are required to be reported as adjustments to
determine comprehensive income.


Advertising

    The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising
eypenses for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 were $43,622,
$39,934 and $43,764, respectively.


New Accounting Pronouncements

    In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff
Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (the "Bulletin"), "Revenue Recognition in
Financial Statements," which addresses revenue recognition issues. The
implementation of the Bulletin was delayed until the fourth quarter of 2000
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1999. The application of the
Bulletin was retroactive to January 1, 2000. The impact of the Bulletin on
the Company's consolidated financial statements was not material.

    In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." This statement establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and for
hedging activities. SFAS No. 133 requires, among other things, that all
derivative instruments be recognized at fair value as assets or liabilities
on the balance sheet and that changes in fair value generally be recognized
currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.
Because the Company does not hold any derivative financial instruments and
has not engaged in hedging activities, the Company does not expect the
adoption of SFAS 133 to have a material impact on its consolidated results
of operations, financial position or cash flows. The Company will adopt the
provisions of SFAS 133 in the first quarter of 2001.


Reclassifications

    Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1999 and 1998 financial
statements to conform to the current year presentation.


NOTE 2. PEGASUS TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

    On March 23, 1998, the Company acquired a 60 percent interest in
Pegasus, an Ohio limited liability company that develops and markets
computer software products intended to optimize combustion and provide
related benefits in coal-fired electric utility power plants. The purchase
price totaled $2,574,000 and consisted of a cash payment of $1,100,000,
$600,000 in four-year promissory notes, the agreement to provide an
immediate capital contribution of $500,000 and certain costs related to the
acquisition including the value assigned to options granted to purchase the
Company's common stock. The promissory notes bear interest at 5% and
require annual principal payments of $150,000 each anniversary date until
fully paid in March 2002. Non-qualified stock options to purchase 75,000
shares of KFx common stock were issued to certain Pegasus principals in
conjunction with the acquisition. In addition 100,000 fully vested
non-qualified stock options to purchase KFx common stock were issued to a
consultant who provided certain acquisition services. Using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model, these stock options were valued at
$253,750. In addition, the Company agreed to provide Pegasus $1,400,000 in
working capital guarantees secured through lines of credit or other
financing sources mutually acceptable to the Company and Pegasus.

    Approximately $2,436,000 of the total purchase price was allocated to
goodwill, since the fair value of the underlying net assets of Pegasus at
date of acquisition was negative and there were no significant identifiable
intangible assets or research and development in process. Goodwill is being
amortized over five years and amortization expense totaled $646,519,
$531,515 and $369,364 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The results of
operations of Pegasus for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 and
the period March 24, 1998 to December 31, 1998 are included in the
consolidated fioancial statements of the Company. At December 31, 1998,
Pegasus was owned 60% by KFx, 25% by Pegasus management and 15% by Computer
Associates International, the licensor of neural network software to
Pegasus.

    During August 1999, the Company issued 527,000 shares of its common
stock to Computer Associates International in exchange for an additional
15% interest in Pegasus. This transaction was recorded based on the average
price of KFx common stock shortly before the transaction was completed,
which approximated $1.45 per share. Accordingly, the additional investment
in Pegasus was recorded at approximately $763,000, all of which has been
allocated to goodwill. At December 31, 1999, Pegasus was owned 75% by KFx
and 25% by Pegasus management.

    On November 30, 2000, the Company issued 80,000 shares of its common
stock to a former Pegasus employee in connection with his resignation, in
exchange for approximately 423,000 common share of Pegasus (approximately
2.3% of the equity of Pegasus on an as converted basis). This transaction
was recorded based on the average price of KFx common stock shortly before
the transaction was completed, which approximated $2.075 per share.
Accordingly, the additional investment in Pegasus was recorded at $166,000,
all of which has been allocated to goodwill.

    Unaudited pro forma operating results as if all of these purchases of
equity in Pegasus had occurred as of January 1, 1999 are summarized as
follows:

                                                  2000               1999
                                                  ----               ----
                                                        (Unaudited)
      Operating revenues....................  $ 2,125,000      $   2,851,000
      Net loss..............................  (12,323,000)       (12,865,000)
      Basic net loss per common share.......         (.49)              (.53)

    On March 3, 2000, KFx and Pegasus closed a transaction with Kennecott
Energy resulting in (a) the sale of 4% of the common stock of Pegasus held
by KFx ("Pegasus Common Stock") to Kennecott Energy for $1,000,000, (b) the
issuance by Pegasus to Kennecott Energy, in exchange for $500,000, of newly
authorized 6% cumulative convertible preferred stock ("Pegasus Preferred
Stock") equivalent to an additional 2% interest in Pegasus on an as
converted basis, (c) the joint development by KFx, Pegasus and Kennecott
Energy of a work plan for enhancements to NeuSIGHT, new product development
and the completion of other tasks designed to improve the performance of
Pegasus and trigger additional purchases of Pegasus Preferred Stock by
Kennecott Energy at its discretion of up to $3,500,000, for an additional
interest in Pegasus up to 14%, on an as converted basis, by December 31,
2004 or earlier and (d) the conversion of secured debt owed by Pegasus to
KFx, totaling $3,630,000, into Pegasus Preferred Stock, at the same price
as provided to Kennecott Energy.

    Pursuant to various agreements underlying Kennecott Energy's March 2000
investment in Pegasus, Pegasus capital structure at December 31, 2000 is
summarized as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            Authorized      Outstanding
      Class of Stock ($.001 per share par value)             Shares*          Shares*       Par Value
      ------------------------------------------            -------           -------       ---------
<S>                                                          <C>              <C>             <C>
      Common stock                                           30,000,000       14,106,000      $14,106
      Series B Preferred, 6% cumulative convertible           3,742,797        1,667,656        1,668
      Series C Preferred, 6% cumulative convertible           3,396,377        3,026,607        3,027
</TABLE>


    *preferred stock shares are presented on an as converted basis

    At December 31, 2000, KFx held approximately 10,269,000 shares of the
Pegasus Common stock and all of the Series C Preferred stock and Kennecott
Energy held approximately 734,000 shares of the Pegasus Common stock and
all of the Series B Preferred stock. Series B and Series C Preferred stock
have substantially similar rights which include (a) voting rights on an as
converted basis; (b) rights to cumulative dividends at 6%, but the board of
directors of Pegasus has not declared any dividends; and (c) a liquidation
preference at December 31, 2000 equal to approximately $1.20 per share plus
cumulative dividends. At December 31, 2000 cumulative, but undeclared
dividends approximated $240,000, of which approximately $60,000 related to
the Series B Preferred stock held by Kennecott Energy. A stockholder and
voting agreement among the stockholders of Pegasus and certain other
agreements executed in connection with Kennecott Energy's March 2000
investment in Pegasus, there are various restrictions on Pegasus' ability
to (a) repurchase its outstanding stock, (b) pay dividends, (c) merge,
consolidate or sell or assign all of substantially all of its assets unless
its shareholders would own a majority of the surviving entity, (d)lend
money and make investments, and (e) incur indebtedness. In addition, sales
of any stock held by a stockholder are subject to first rights of refusal
and certain other restrictions.

    At December 31, 2000, the ownership of Pegasus is approximately as
follows on an as converted basis: KFx--71%, Pegasus management--16% and
Kennecott Energy--13%. Kennecott had the right for one year to sell the
Pegasus Common Stock back to KFx at a price equal to the greater of
$1,000,000 or fair market value; such right was not exercised and expired
oo March 3, 2001.


NOTE 3. PROPERTY, PLANT, AND EQUIPMENT

    Property, plant, and equipment consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      December 31,
                                                                2000               1999
                                                                ----               ----
<S>                                                       <C>                <C>
                Demonstration plant....................   $   10,854,375     $  10,854,375
                Office, computer equipment and other...          970,014           837,800
                Total..................................       11,824,389        11,692,175
                                                          --------------     -------------
                Less accumulated depreciation..........      (10,463,959)       (9,433,749)
                                                          --------------        ----------
                Net Book Value.........................   $    1,360,430     $   2,258,426
                                                          ==============     =============
</TABLE>

    Depreciation expense was $1,105,632, $1,096,481 and $1,109,928 in 2000,
1999, and 1998, respectively.

    In order to facilitate the development of the production facility
discussed in Note 6, in 1995 the Company acquired certain coal mining and
surface properties near Gillette, Wyoming. The consideration paid for the
properties is in the form of a royalty share agreement whereby the Company
is required to pay Fort Union an amount equal to 20 percent of the royalty
income received by the Company from all North American applications of the
K-Fuel process until the earlier of such time as (1) Fort Union has
received royalty share payments in the amount of $1,500,000, or (2)
September 15, 2015. Additionally, the Company was required to assume the
reclamation liabilities related to the acquired properties. During 1998,
this property was sold to KFP in exchange for KFP's assumption of the mine
reclamation liability, resulting in a gain of $700,500 (see Note 6).


NOTE 4. PATENTS

    Patents consisted of the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                     December 31,
                                                                2000               1999
                                                                ----               ----
<S>                                                          <C>                <C>
               Series "A" and "B" patents...............     $ 9,052,446        $  9,052,446
               Series "C" patents.......................       1,485,298          1,429,404
               Domestic and foreign patents--pending....         626,567            434,993
               Other....................................          90,000             90,000
                                                             -----------        -----------
                                                              11,254,312         11,006,843
               Less accumulated amortization............      (9,302,745)        (8,709,135)
                                                             -----------        -----------
                                                             $ 1,951,567        $ 2,297,708
                                                             ===========        ===========
</TABLE>

    Patents amortization expense, including abandoned patents, was
$628,113, $631,544, and $634,799 in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.


NOTE 5. INVESTMENT IN K-FUEL, L.L.C.

    In April 1996, the Company and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Kennecott
Energy Company (Kennecott Energy), formed K-Fuel, LLC. Pursuant to the
Limited Liability Company Agreement (the "Agreement"), K-Fuel, LLC is
intended to be the vehicle for further technical advancement and the
commercialization of business opportunities arising out of the K-Fuel
Technology, including research and development, sublicensing, marketing and
consulting, but not including any actual construction of plants or
facilities to produce K-Fuel products on a commercial basis ("Commercial
Projects"). Any Commercial Projects will be constructed by separate
entities in which Kennecott Energy, the Company or both may have an equity
interest and which will receive a sublicense from K-Fuel, LLC for the
K-Fuel Technology.

    Initially, the Company has a 51 percent interest in K-Fuel, LLC and
Kennecott Energy has a 49 percent interest, except to the extent of certain
research and development and amortization expenses, which by written
agreement are allocated 100 percent to Kennecott Energy. At such time as
entities in which Kennecott Energy has an equity interest have placed into
service Commercial Projects with a collective design capacity equal to or
in excess of 3 million tons of K-Fuel product per annum, Kennecott Energy
will have a 51 percent interest in K-Fuel, LLC and the Company will have a
49 percent interest. In connection with an amendment to the Agreement
executed in June 1999, Kennecott Energy paid to KFx a $1,000,000 K-Fuel
license fee and an additional $1,000,000 that, in accordance with the
amendment, was invested in K-Fuel, LLC to fund future development
activities associated with the next phase of K-Fuel commercialization. The
additional $1,000,000 was recorded as an addition to investment in K-Fuel,
LMC and deferred income. As such funds are expended by K-Fuel, LLC, the
Company records a reduction to its investment in K-Fuel, LLC and deferred
income. During 2000, approximately $501,000 of deferred income was amortized.

    K-Fuel, LLC incurred research and development costs totaling
approximately $482,000, $23,000, and $134,000 in 2000, 1999, and 1998
respectively, and an additional $4,000, $3,000 and $198,000, for certain
administrative, marketing and project development activities in the United
States and Indonesia for the same periods. The Company made no contribution
to K-Fuel, LLC during 2000. The Company contributed $1,000,000, and $99,000
to K-Fuel, LLC in 1999 and 1998 respectively, for certain administrative,
marketing and project development activities in the United States and
Indonesia. As of December 31, 2000, K-Fuel, LLC was not committed to fund
or construct any Commercial Projects.

    The Company recognized income of $4,242, $11,618 and expense of
$162,925 for its equity share of the marketing, general and administrative
exqenses and interest income of K-Fuel, LLC for 2000, 1999, and 1998
respectively. The Company's investment in K-Fuel, LLC at December 31, 2000
was approximately $694,000.

    In connection with the Agreement, the Company granted K-Fuel, LLC an
exclusive, worldwide, fully-paid, royalty-free right and license (including
the right to grant sublicenses) to and under the K-Fuel Technology, except
to the extent that it pertains to the beneficiation or restructuring of
coal or coal-related feedstocks covered under the HFC License (as defined
below) (the "KFx License"). In addition, Heartland Fuels Corporation, an 85
percent owned subsidiary of the Company, granted K-Fuel, LLC an exclusive,
worldwide, fully-paid, royalty-free right and license (including the right
to grant sublicenses) to and under the Series "A" and Series "B" K-Fuel
Technology, as it pertains to the beneficiation or restructuring of coal or
coal-related feedstocks (the "HFC License"). Both the KFx License and the
HFC License specify minimum terms and provisions for any sublicenses
granted by K-Fuel, LLC to third parties.


NOUE 6. THERMO ECOTEK CORPORATION AND KFx FUEL PARTNERS, L.P.

    In 1995, the Company and Thermo Ecotek Corporation ("TCK") entered into
a stock purchase agreement (the "Stock Purchase Agreement") whereby TCK
acquired 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock for $3 million, and
the right to purchase up to an additional 2,750,000 shares of the Company's
common stock at the same price per share. In December 1995, TCK purchased
an additional 1,500,000 shares for $3.0 million. Additionally, TCK
purchased the remaining 1,250,000 shares of common stock in January 1997
for $2.5 million, increasing its ownership in the Company to approximately
18 percent. As a part of this transaction, TCK was also granted stock
purchase warrants giving it the right to purchase a control position in
KFx's common stock. In connection with these transactions in 1995, the
Company acquired a 5 percent general and limited partnership interest in
KFP. TCK, the operating partner, held the remaining 95 percent general and
limited partnership interest in KFP. In 1995, KFP began construction of a
500,000 tons-per-year K-Fuel production facility near Gillette, Wyoming,
which was completed in 1998 at a total construction cost approximating
$66.5 million. TCK began reporting operating results from the KFP Facility
in April 1998. Although the KFP Facility operated and produced commercially
salable product, TCK encountered difficulties in achieving optimal and
sustained operations. On May 24, 1999, TCK announced its decision to hold
for sale its investment in the KFP Facility. In June 1999, TCK suspended
operations at the KFP Facility. The Company's share of the losses of KFP
was $452,364 and $410,155 for 1999 and 1998, respectively. The Company also
performed $197,273 and $519,501 of technical services for KFP in 1999 and
1998, respectively; these amounts are included in contract revenues for the
respective periods.

    On April 12, 2000, the Company executed agreements with various parties
that initiated the redevelopment of the KFP Facility. Pursuant to the
agreements (a) a subsidiary of Black Hills Corporation (BKH) purchased the
KFP Facility and received 2 million shares of KFx common stock previously
held by TCK in exchange for the assumption of the reclamation liability
associated with the KFP Facility, (b) BKH was given the right to one seat
on KFx's board of directors (which to date it has declined to exercise),
(c) KFx granted BKH a fully-exercisable warrant, which expires April 30,
2015, to purchase 1.3 million shares of KFx common stock at $3.65 per
share, subject to certain adjustments, (d) KFx relinquished its 5% interest
in KFP to TCK and provide certain releases to TCK in exchange for cash
proceeds approximating $1.5 million and certain real and personal property,
and (e) TCK sold the remaining 2.25 million common shares of KFx it owned
to private investors and canceled the warrants it held to purchase a
control position in KFx's common stock. The carrying value of the Company's
investment in KFP was written down effective December 31, 1999 by
$1,800,000, to the $1,500,000 estimated cash proceeds to KFx from these
transactions. In addition, the estimated $2.2 million value of the warrants
issued to BKH, using the Black-Scholes method, was charged to expense in
1999.


NOTE 7. CHARCO REDONDO, L.L.C.

    In December 1997, the Company purchased a 12.6 percent interest in
Charco Redondo, LLC, a Texas limited liability company, ("Charco") for
$540,000, which was funded during 1998. The Company has made additional
investments approximating $89,000 pursuant to cash calls made by Charco
through December 31, 1998. During 1998, Charco successfully completed a
pilot tertiary oil recovery project. The Company and Charco have undertaken
efforts to obtain approximately $7 million of outside financing to further
develop the Charco Redondo Lease. The Company has no obligations to provide
any funding for the development of the Charco Redondo Lease. Although the
Company believes the Charco Redondo Lease has significant potential, based
oo (a) the need for the Company to focus its efforts and limited financial
resources on its K-Fuel and Pegasus business segments and (b) the inability
to obtain the necessary outside financing to date, the Company recorded an
impairment write-off for its investment in Charco Redondo as of December
31, 2000 in the amount of $629,000.


NOTE 8. PREPAID ROYALTY

    In 1996, the Company entered into a royalty amendment agreement with
Edward Koppelman, the inventor of the K-Fuel Technology. As a result of the
agreement, Mr. Koppelman's royalty is now 25 percent of the Company's
worldwide royalty and license fee revenue, computed after a State of
Wyoming royalty. The royalty to Mr. Koppelman will cease when the
cumulative payments to him reach the sum of approximately $75,222,000. Mr.
Koppelman is now deceased and his estate holds all royalty rights.

    As consideration for the royalty amendment agreement, the Company paid
Mr. Koppelman $300,000 in cash and issued a promissory note for $200,000,
which was paid in full in 1997. The $500,000 prepaid royalty is being
amortized as licenses to K-Fuel Technology are sold.


NOTE 9. NOTES PAYABLE TO DIRECTORS

KFy

    During 2000, KFx borrowed a total of $650,000 from two of its
directors, $400,000 of which was repaid during 2000. At December 31, 2000,
notes payable to directors include unsecured notes consisting of (a) a
$100,000 note payable to the Chairman, due on demand and bearing interest
at the prime rate plus 2% (11.5 % at December 31, 2000) and (b) a $150,000
note payable to another director, bearing interest at 11.5%, due April 30,
2011 and personally guaranteed by the Company's Chairman. The note payable
to the Chairman was repaid subsequent to year end in connection with the
Chairman's purchase of a portion of the Company's Pegasus Preferred Stock;
see also Note 18.

Pegasus

    During 2000, Pegasus borrowed $900,000 under three unsecured notes from
a KFx director and one of his affiliates. Under a $400,000 note, which
bears interest at the prime rate plus 2% (11.5% at December 31, 2000) and
was initially due January 21, 2001 (subsequently amended to be due on
demand), a fully exercisable warrant was also issued to purchase, at the
estimated fair value at the date of grant of $1.07 per share, 375.000
shares of common stock of Pegasus equivalent to an as converted equity
interest approximating 1.5%. The value of the warrant, estimated at
$215,000 using the Black-Scholes valuation model, was recorded as a debt
discount and is being amortized to interest expense over the initial
six-month term of the agreement ended January 21, 2001. At December 31,
2000, $193,000 of this discount had been amortized to interest expense. The
warrant expires in July 2003. An additional $200,000 was borrowed under a
separate note issued to this director, which bears interest at the prime
rate plus 2% (11.5 % at December 31, 2000), is due on demand, and is
personally guaranteed by KFx's Chairman. An additional $300,000 was
borrowed and repaid during 2000 under a separate unsecured note.


NOTE 10. LONG-TERM DEBT

    Long-term debt consisted of the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                            December 31,
                                                                     2000               1999
                                                                     ----               ----
<S>                                                             <C>                <C>
  Unsecured promissory note to the State of Wyoming,
  interest at 6.5 percent and payable in two
  installments of $5,000 each February 1, 2001 and March
  1, 2001 with the balance due July 1, 2001...................   $   475,000        $   500,000
  Unsecured promissory note, interest at 8.0 percent, due
  on demand...................................................       245,000            245,000
  Unsecured promissory note, interest at 6.0 percent,
  payable in $10,000 quarterly installments beginning
  March 2002 with the balance due December 2003...............       170,000            170,000
  Unsecured promissory note, interest at 5.0 percent due
  with principal payments in four annual payments
  approximating $150,000 each beginning March 1999............       314,626            460,792
                                                                 -----------        -----------
  Total.......................................................     1,204,626          1,375,792
  Less current maturities.....................................      (873,476)          (891,167)
                                                                 -----------        -----------
  Long-term portion............................................  $   331,150        $   484,625
                                                                 ===========        ============
</TABLE>

    In connection with an agreement in March 2001 to extend of the maturity
of the note payable to the State of Wyoming from March 1, 2001 to July 1,
2001, the Company (a) made a payment of $200,000 consisting of (i) $150,400
in principal (ii) $47,200 as a late payment penalty and (iii) $2,400 of
interest and (b) agreed to assign the net proceeds from the sale a portion
of the preferred stock of Pegasus that it owns (770,891 shares, equivalent
to an as converted equity interest in Pegasus approximating 4.4%) to the
note payable to the State and to a related contingent obligation to the
State of Wyoming, see Note 15.

     Scheduled maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 2000 are
approximately as follows: $873,000 in 2001, $17,113,000 (including the
Convertible Debentures and related maturity premium) in 2002, $40,000 in
2003 and $90,000 in 2004.


NOTE 11. CONVERTIBLE DEBENTURES

    On July 31, 1997, the Company completed a private placement of
unsecured convertible debentures (the "Debentures") totaling $17.0 million.
The Debentures were offered, sold and delivered only to non-United States
persons outside of the United States pursuant to Regulation S of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Debentures mature in July 2002 at
112% of principal amount, and have an annual interest rate of 6.0 percent,
payable semi-annually on January 31 and July 31. The Debentures became
coovertible into shares of the Company's common stock at a conversion price
of $3.75 per share, beginning on October 30, 1997. On November 1, 1999, the
conversion price changed to $3.65 per share in accordance with provisions
of the Debentures. The Debentures are callable by the Company at 130% of
principal amount. The Debentures contain covenants limiting the Company's
ability to incur secured and unsecured debt, to sell assets or enter into
merger agreements and make investment. In addition, the Debentures contain
provisions that would reduce the Debenture conversion price from $3.65 per
share, if the Company sells or issues any common stock at a price below
$3.65 per share. Management believes that the Company has complied with the
Debentures' covenants in all material respects. In connection with the sale
of the Debentures, the Company issued warrants to purchase 453,333 shares
of common stock to the placement agents. See Note 14. In connection with
the placement of the Debentures, the Company incurred costs totaling
$2,435,565, which were recorded as debt issue costs and are being amortized
over the life of the Debentures. Related amortization expense was $448,000,
$492,000 and $492,000 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

    At June 30, 2000, the Company recorded a charge of $1,000,000 related
to previously unrecorded accretion of the 12% premium on its Debentures.
The impact of this accrual on each of the quarters and years since the
Debentures were issued in July 1997 was not material. Additional premium
accretion approximating $362,000 was recorded in subsequent quarters of
2000.

    During 2000, holders of Debentures with a face value of $1,900,000
exercised their right to convert their Debentures into common stock of the
Company at a conversion price of $3.65 per share. Accordingly, 520,540
shares of common stock were issued, and $1,903,000, including a prorata
portion of accreted maturity premium, net of a prorata portion of deferred
debt issue costs, was credited to common stock and additional paid in
capital.


NOTE 12. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

    During 2000, the Company agreed to issue 181,582 shares of its common
stock in exchange for consulting services; approximately $418,000 of
related expense, based on the estimated fair value of the shares issued, is
included in marketing, general and administrative expenses. At December 31,
2000, 68,082 of these shares had not yet been issued and are included in
the liability to issue stock.

    As discussed in Note 2, in November 2000, the Company issued 80,000
shares of common stock in connection with the acquisition of a minority
interest in Pegasus. As discussed in Note 6, in May 2000, the Company
issued warrants to purchase 1,300,000 of the Company's common stock. As
discussed in Note 11, during 2000, debentures totaling $1,900,000 were
converted into 520,540 shares of the Company's common stock.

    As discussed in Note 2, in August 1999, the Company issued 527,000
shares of its common stock in exchange for an additional 15% interest in
Pegasus. In July 1999, the Company issued 3,500 shares of the Company's
Common Stock in exchange for certain professional services; $13,124 of
related expense, based on the estimated fair value of the shares issued, is
included in marketing, general and administrative expenses.

    In 1998, the Company granted warrants and options to purchase 230,000
shares of the Company's common stock at exercise prices of $3.75-$4.38 per
share, in exchange for certain professional services. Using the
Bmack-Scholes option-pricing model, the warrants were valued at $196,000;
this amount is included in marketing, general and administrative expenses
for 1998. As discussed in Note 2, in 1998, the Company granted purchase
options for 175,000 shares of the Company's common stock. During 1998, the
Company issued 25,700 shares of its common stock in exchange for consulting
services; $96,375 of related expense is included in marketing, general and
administrative expenses.


NOTE 13. STOCK OPTION PLANS

KFx

    The Company has three employee stock option plans--the Amended and
Restated Stock Option Plan (the "1992 Plan"), the 1996 Stock Option and
Incentive Plan (the "1996 Plan"), and the 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (the
"1999 Plan"). These plans are administered by the Compensation Committee of
tie Company's Board of Directors ("Committee"), which has the authority to
determine the specific terms of awards under these plans, including grant
price, vesting and term, subject to certain restrictions of the Internal
Revenue Code regarding incentive stock options ("ISO").

    The 1992 Plan provides for the award to the Company's executive
officers, non-employee directors, other key employees and consultants and
others of non-qualified stock options ("NSO") and ISOs. Stock options
granted under the 1992 Plan generally vest 20 percent on the date of grant,
with an additional 20 percent vesting on each anniversary date thereof
until fully vested. The Committee can accelerate the vesting of an
outstanding option at its sole discretion, and is required to accelerate
the vesting of all outstanding options outstanding under the 1992 Plan in
the event of a change in control of the Company, as defined (which includes
a change in ownership of 15% or more). As a result of TCK's investment in
the Company on January 31, 1997, which increased its ownership in the
Company to in excess of 15 percent, all options outstanding under the 1992
Plan at that date became fully vested at that time. Stock options granted
under the 1992 Plan generally expire not more than ten years from the date
of grant. The Company has reserved 1,000,000 shares of common stock for
issuance under the 1992 Plan, of which 228,000 options remain available for
grant as of December 31, 2000.

    The 1996 Plan provides for the award to the Company's executive
officers, non-employee directors, other key employees and consultants and
others of NSOs, ISOs, stock appreciation rights ("SAR") and restricted
stock. Stock options granted under the 1996 Plan generally vest 20 percent
on the first anniversary date of the grant, and an additional 20 percent
each anniversary date thereafter until fully vested. The Committee has
similar discretionary authority to accelerate the vesting of any
outstanding option as described above under the 1992 Plan, except there are
no specific change in control vesting requirements. Stock options granted
uneer the 1996 Plan generally expire not more than ten years from the date
of grant. The Company has reserved 1,500,000 shares of common stock for
issuance under the 1996 Plan, of which 25,666 options remain available for
grant at December 31, 2000. During 1999,158,334 SARs were granted under the
1996 Plan; see further discussion of these SAR grants below. There were no
grants under the 1996 Plan during 2000.

    The 1999 Plan provides for the award to the Company's executive
officers, non employee directors, other key employees and consultants and
ouhers of various forms of equity based compensation including, ISOs, NSOs,
SARs, or restricted stock. The Committee has similar discretionary
authority to accelerate the vesting of any outstanding option as described
above under the 1992 Company's common stock, except that vesting is not
required upon a change in control. The Company has reserved 2,000,000
shares of common stock for issuance under the 1999 Plan, of which 874,000
options remain available for grant at December 31, 2000. During 2000,
405,000 SARs and 1,000 shares of common stock were granted under the 1999
Plan; see further discussion of 2000 SAR grants below.

    In addition to the 1992 Plan, the 1996 Plan, and the 1999 Plan, the
Company has issued non-qualified stock options and restricted stock related
to various compensation and fee agreements with directors and employees of
and consultants to the Company.

    The following table summarizes the Company's stock option activity for
the three-year period ending December 31, 2000:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                               Option Activity                 Options Exercisable
                                               ---------------                 -------------------
                                                           Weighted                        Weighted
                                                           Average                         Average
                                                        Exercise Price                  Exercise Price
                                           Total          Per Share         Total          Per Share
                                           -----          ---------         -----          ---------

<S>                                     <C>             <C>             <C>              <C>
      Balance 12-31-97.............       2,862,500       $ 4.80          1,637,100        $ 4.67
      Granted......................       1,310,000       $ 4.05
      Expired and cancelled........        (300,500)      $ 6.87
                                        ------------
      Balance 12-31-98.............       3,872,000       $ 4.38          2,273,000        $ 4.42
      Granted......................          71,000       $ 3.75
      Expired and cancelled........        (380,000)      $ 4.31
                                        ------------
      Balance 12-31-99.............       3,563,000       $ 4.38          2,606,000        $ 4.32
      Expired and cancelled........        (275,000)      $ 5.07
                                        ------------
      Balance 12-31-00.............       3,288,000       $ 4.33          2,684,000        $ 4.39
                                        ------------
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 Stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2000 are summarized below:


                      Stock Options Outstanding                      Stock Options Exercisable
                      -------------------------                      -------------------------
                                             Weighted
                                             Average                                     Weighted
                                            Remaining         Weighted                    Average
           Range of          Number of     Contractual        Average        Number of   Exercise
        Exercise Prices        Shares      Life (Years)    Exercise Price      Shares     Price
        ---------------      ---------     ------------    --------------    ---------   --------
<S>       <C>               <C>            <C>             <C>              <C>        <C>
          $7.14-$7.39          260,000        2.5             $ 7.38           210,000    $ 7.38
          3.75 - 5.38        2,678,000        4.3             $ 4.27         2,124,000    $ 4.41
                 2.50          350,000        4.5             $ 2.50           350,000    $ 2.50
                               -------                                         -------
          $2.50-$7.39        3,288,000        4.2             $ 4.33         2,684,000    $ 4.39
                             =========                                       =========
</TABLE>

    All stock options granted during each of the three years ended December
31, 2000, were at exercise prices that were equal to or greater than the
fair market value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant.
Generally such grants were at the greater of fair market value of the
Company's common stock on the date of grant or $3.75 per share ($3.65 per
share after November 1, 1999) due to restrictions imposed under the
Convertible Debentures and previously imposed under the TCK Stock Purchase
Agreement.


Pegasus

    The Company's Pegasus subsidiary has adopted a separate stock option
plan (the "Pegasus Plan") that provides for the award to Pegasus' executive
officers, non employee directors, other key employees and consultants, of
various forms of equity based compensation, including ISOs, NSOs, SARs, and
restricted stock. The board of directors of Pegasus administers the Pegasus
Plan and has similar authority to the Committee to accelerate the vesting
of any outstanding option as described above under the 1992 Plan, except
that changes in control are generally transactions involving in excess of
50% of Pegasus' common stock. Option prices are equivalent to estimated
market values at the dates of grant. Vesting of options granted under the
plan is generally at 2% per month and the options generally expire seven
years from date of grant. Pegasus has reserved 2,500,000 shares of common
stock for issuance under the Pegasus Plan, which approximates 12% of the
outstanding common stock and convertible preferred stock (on an as
converted basis) of Pegasus at December 31, 2000. At December 31, 2000,
1,651,000 options under the Pegasus Plan remain available for grant.

    The following table summarizes Pegasus' stock option activity for the
three-year period ending December 31, 2000:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                               Option Activity                Options Exercisable
                                               ---------------                -------------------
                                                        Weighted                         Weighted
                                                         Average                          Average
                                                      Exercise Price                   Exercise Price
                                          Total         Per Share         Total           Per Share
                                          -----       --------------      -----        --------------
<S>                                   <C>            <C>               <C>             <C>
      Granted--1998...............       742,421        $ .31
                                       ----------
      Balance 12-31-98............       742,421        $ .31
      Granted.....................     1,026,000        $1.01
                                       ----------
      Balance 12-31-99............     1,768,421        $ .72            447,565           $ .73
      Granted.....................        58,000        $1.07
      Expired and cancelled.......      (977,421)       $ .48
                                       ----------
      Balance 12-31-00............       849,000        $1.02            379,970           $1.03
                                       ==========
</TABLE>


    The range of exercise prices for stock options outstanding and
exercisable at December 31, 2000 was $1.00 per share to $1.10 per share.
The weighted average estimated grant date fair value of options granted in
2000, 1999, and 1998 was $0.75 per share, $.63 per share, and $.19 per
share per share, respectively. All stock options granted during each of the
three years ended December 31, 2000 were at exercise prices that were not
below the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the date of
grant. Generally such grants were at the greater of fair market value of
the Company's common stock on the date of grant.

    The Company applies Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25
and relevant interpretations in accounting for its stock option plans.
Accordingly, compensation expense is recognized when the exercise price of
an employee stock option or similar equity instrument is below the fair
market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.

    Had compensation cost for the Company's stock option plans been
determined based on the fair value at the grant date for the awards under
these plans consistent with the method of FAS123, the pro forma impact on
the Company's net loss and net loss per share would have been as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                             Year Ended December 31,
                                                 2000                  1999                  1998
                                                 ----                  ----                  ----

<S>                                         <C>                  <C>                  <C>
  Net loss--pro forma................       $(13,137,000)        $(13,850,000)        $(7,778,000)
  Net loss per share--pro forma......       $       (.53)        $       (.57)        $      (.33)
  Weighted average
       Risk free interest rate.......               6.64%                6.33%               4.86%
       Expected option life (years)..                3.5                  5.9                 5.9
       Expected volatility...........               66.6%                60.6%               50.6%
       Expected dividends............                NA                   NA                  NA
</TABLE>


    During the second half of 1999, the Company's Board of Directors
adopted a policy of granting stock-based compensation to directors in lieu
of directors' fees. Accordingly, SARs for 300,000 shares at a price of
$1.75 per share and for 475,000 shares at a price of $1.00 per share were
granted to directors in 2000 and 1999, respectively. In 1999, the Company
also granted SARs to certain employees for 255,000 shares at a price of
$1.50 per share and to certain consultants for 158,334, in lieu of cash fee
payments. In 2000, 45,000 and 50,000 SARs were granted at $1.50 per share
to employees and consultants, respectively. The SARs prices were equal to
or greater than the Company's closing stock price on the dates of grant and
the SARs were generally fully vested at date of grant, but cannot be
exercised until the Company's Debentures are converted, redeemed or mature.
SARs granted to directors expire in ten years and consultants generally
expire five years from date of grant. The SARs granted to employees expire
thirty days after the Debentures are retired. Upon exercise of any of the
SARs, the Company has the option of (a) paying the stock appreciation in
excess of the grant price in cash, (b) converting the SAR to a
non-qualified stock option for the same number of shares as covered by the
SAR at the SAR grant price, or (c) granting common stock of the Company
with a value at the date of exercise equivalent to the amount of stock
appreciation at the date of exercise. Since the conditions precedent to
exercisability had not been satisfied and satisfaction of these conditions
is not probable at December 31, 2000, no expense associated with these SAR
grants was recognized in 2000 or 1999.


NOTE 14. WARRANTS TO PURCHASE COMMON STOCK

    Associated with various financing transactions and professional service
agreements, the Company has issued transferable warrants to purchase common
suock. The following table summarizes the outstanding warrants as of
December 31, 2000, all of which are fully exercisable as of that date:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                            Number       Exercise
                                       Type of                of           Price
                                     Transaction            Shares       Per Share        Expiration
                                     -----------            ------       ---------        ----------
<S>                  <C>                                    <C>         <C>                  <C>
          Granted in 1997             Services              453,333     $     5.00           2002
          Granted in 1998             Services              230,000     $3.75-$4.38          2001
          Granted in 2000               Other             1,300,000     $      3.65          2005
                                                         -----------
                  Total                                   1,983,333
</TABLE>

    Warrants granted in 1997 related to the placement of the Convertible
Debentures. Warrants granted in 1998 related to certain professional
service expenses totaling $196,000. Warrants granted in 2000 were in
connection with the sale of the Company's interest in KFP and related
transactions. See Note 6.


NOTE 15. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

    On September 8, 2000, Pavilion Technologies, Inc. ("Pavilion"), a
competitor of Pegasus, served Pegasus with a complaint that it had filed on
August 14, 2000, in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of Texas asserting that Pegasus infringed 26 patents allegedly
issued to or licensed by Pavilion (the "Pavilion Lawsuit"). (The Pavilion
Lawsuit was subsequently transferred to the United States District Court
for the Northern District of Ohio.) The Pavilion Lawsuit seeks injunctive
relief, compensatory and treble damages, as well as attorney's fees, costs
and expenses. Pegasus' products employ its own proprietary computer code as
well as computer code exclusively licensed to Pegasus. On September 15,
2000, the licensor agreed to defend Pegasus in the Pavilion Lawsuit
pursuant to an indemnification provision of the parties' license agreement.
On October 27, 2000, Pegasus filed an answer to the Pavilion Lawsuit
denying the patent infringement claims ("Pegasus' Answer"). The Pegasus
Answer also asserted various counterclaims against Pavilion alleging unfair
competition, deceptive trade practices, defamation, tortious interference
with business relationships and attempted monopolization in violation of
Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act ("Pegasus' Counterclaims"). After
consultation with counsel, KFx and Pegasus management believe that the
infringement allegations in the Pavilion Lawsuit are objectively baseless
and without merit. On April 11, 2001, Pegasus and Pavilion agreed to
dismiss the Pavilion Lawsuit and the Pegasus Answer, without prejudice, in
oreer to explore possible business combinations, cooperative relationships
and other alternatives. To the extent that these efforts are not
successful, Pegasus, in coordination with its licensor, intends to
vigorously defend against the Pavilion Lawsuit and to aggressively pursue
the Pegasus Answer and Pegasus Counterclaims. Accordingly, although the
disposition of this matter cannot be predicted with certainty, management
does not believe that its ultimate outcome will have a material adverse
efgect on the Company's financial position or the results of its
operations.

    On November 4, 1999, Link Resources, Inc., a Georgia corporation,
("Link") and its two shareholders, Linda E. Kobel ("Kobel") and Gary A.
Sanden ("Sanden") filed a complaint against the Company in US District
Court for the District of Colorado. The complaint alleges that KFx, Link,
Kobel and Sanden had entered into an agreement requiring KFx to acquire
Link and that KFx breached such agreement. The complaint seeks damages in
excess of $5.3 million. Although the ultimate resolution of this matter
cannot be predicted with certainty, based on a review of the underlying
facts and discussion with counsel, management believes that this complaint
is without merit. KFx intends to contest this complaint vigorously.
Accordingly, management does not believe that this matter will have a
material impact on the results of operation or financial position of the
Company.

    The Company is obligated for non-cancelable operating leases with
initial terms exceeding one year relating to office space and certain
equipment and vehicle leases. Rent expense in 2000, 1999, and 1998 was
$307,960, $246,494, and $204,847, respectively. Certain of the leased
property, principally office space, has been sublet to third parties under
non-cancelable operating leases. Approximate future minimum lease payments
and sublease receipts as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                       Sublease
                                                  Lease Amounts         Amounts            Net
                Year Ending December 31,             Payable          Receivable         Amount
                ------------------------          -------------       ----------         -------
<S>                       <C>                  <C>                  <C>               <C>
                          2001                 $     435,000        $    168,000      $  267,000
                          2002                       416,000             168,000         248,000
                          2003                       379,000             150,000         229,000
                          2004                       277,000             100,000         177,000
                                               --------------       -------------     -----------
                         Total                 $   1,507,000         $   586,000      $  921,000
                                               ==============       =============     ===========
</TABLE>

    As part of the restructured bond agreement with the State of Wyoming
(Wyoming) in 1994, Energy Brothers Holding, Inc., an affiliate of the
Company, and the Company's Chairman executed a promissory note to Wyoming
for $819,000, with annual interest at 6 percent. The Company agreed in 1994
to indemnify its Chairman and his affiliate for any payments made under
such note, upon his demand, since their obligation stemmed from their
personal guarantee of certain obligations of the Company that were
renegotiated in 1994. During 2000, the Company made related principal and
interest payments on behalf of its Chairman totaling $82,150. In addition,
similar payments totaling $12,210 were made through April 12, 2001. The
Company's Chairman and his affiliate have agreed to waive their
ineemnification rights for future payments under certain circumstances.
Wyoming issued a notice of default relative to this note on March 2, 2001,
triggering a 10-day cure period. On March 12, 2001, Wyoming agreed to
forebear from collection activities under this note until July 1, 2001.

    The Company is contingently liable to Ohio Valley Electric Corporation
("OVEC") for an overriding royalty of 0.5 percent to OVEC on the gross
revenues generated by the sale of fuel produced from any production plant
(ouher than the current facility owned by KFP) located in the United States
in which the feedstock is coal and which uses the Company's proprietary
Series "C" K-Fuel technology to produce fuel. The Company is contingently
liable for royalties to the Koppelman Estate; see Note 8. The Company is
contingently liable to Fort Union for 20 percent of the Company's North
American royalty proceeds.

    Pegasus is contingently liable to certain of its founding stockholders
fos a royalty equivalent to 2% of the license fee revenues derived from the
sale its NeuSIGHT product through November 30, 2004. This obligation is
limited to the extent of pretax income without regard to such royalty,
subject to a maximum of $2.5 million and subject to certain other
limitations. Through December 31, 2000, Pegasus has made no payments or
accruals under this agreement.


NOTE 16. INCOME TAXES

    The Company's operations are principally domestic, with income taxable
at the federal statutory rate of 34 percent plus applicable state rates.
Deferred tax assets (liabilities) were comprised of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                             2000                1999
                                                                             ----                ----
        Gross deferred tax assets:
<S>                                                                     <C>                  <C>
             Loss (NOL) carryforwards...........................        $    17,540,000      $   13,550,000
             Depreciation and amortization......................              1,286,000             956,000
             Deferred compensation..............................                 40,000             473,000
             Warrants and accrued liabilities...................                871,000             821,000
             Other..............................................              1,270,000             716,000
                                                                        ---------------      ---------------
                  Gross deferred tax assets.....................             21,007,000          16,516,000
                  Deferred tax assets valuation allowance.......            (21,007,000)        (16,516,000)
                                                                        ---------------      ---------------
                       Net deferred tax assets..................        $            --      $           --
                                                                        ================     ===============
</TABLE>

    No net deferred tax asset has been recorded for NOL carryforwards or
other deferred tax assets because there is no assurance that such benefits
will be realized. The Company's tax return basis loss carryforwards of
approximately $47,023,000 (including $4,151,000 for Pegasus expiring in
2020) expire in various amounts through 2020 as follows:

                 Five-year period ending:

                           December 31, 2005             $   5,915,000
                           December 31, 2010             $  11,977,000
                           December 31, 2015             $   4,180,000
                           December 31, 2020             $  24,951,000

    Certain limitations apply to the annual amount of net operating losses
that can be used to offset taxable income, after certain ownership changes,
as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 382").

    The Company's total provision for income taxes in 2000, 1999 and 1998
were different from the amount expected by applying the statutory federal
income tax rate to the net loss. The approximate differences are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                               2000              1999            1998
                                                               ----              ----            ----

<S>                                                      <C>                <C>             <C>
    Expected tax benefit on loss before income taxes     $  (4,179,000)     $  (4,328,000)  $  (2,306,000)
    Expected state tax benefit, net...................        (406,000)          (420,000)       (220,000)
    Non-deductible items..............................          94,000             40,000          42,000
    Increase in valuation allowance...................       4,491,000          4,626,000       2,507,000
    Other.............................................              --             82,000         (23,000)
                                                         -------------      --------------  --------------
         Total income tax benefit.....................   $          --      $          --   $          --
                                                         =============      ==============  ==============
</TABLE>


         The balance of the deferred tax valuation allowance was
$11,890,000 and $9,383,000 at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.


NOTE 17. SEGMENT INFORMATION

    KFx's reportable segments are based on its principal products and
services, which are optimization software and related services, through its
Pegasus subsidiary ("Pegasus" segment), and clean fuels technology, through
certain activities of KFx and certain of its subsidiaries ("K-Fuel"
segment). The accounting policies of these segments are the same as those
described in Note 1. In addition, the goodwill and related amortization
resulting from the acquisition of Pegasus is included in the Pegasus
segment. KFx evaluates the performance of its segments and allocates
resources to them primarily based its view of the potential for net income
ane operating cash flow. There are no intersegment revenues; however, KFx's
corporate office charges management and related fees to the Pegasus
segment, based on actual costs and estimated time and other resources
devoted to assist with and support the activities of Pegasus.

    The following tables present information about revenues, certain income
and expense categories, net loss, cash used in operating activities,
segment assets and certain other information used by KFx's Chairman and
CEO, its chief operating decision maker, as of December 31, 2000 and 1999
and for the years then ended:



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Reconciling
                  2000                      Pegasus          K-Fuel          Items(a)     Consolidated
                  ----                      -------          ------          --------     ------------

<S>                                      <C>                    <C>         <C>               <C>
  Operating Revenues                     $    1,894,994         229,776                        2,124,770
                                         --------------         -------                        ---------

  Operating Costs
     Cost of sales                            1,775,780                                        1,775,780
     Marketing, general and                   2,890,455          41,970        2,190,601       5,123,026
     administrative
     Depreciation and amortization              745,643       1,623,277          459,551       2,828,471
     Other                                      614,410         781,488                        1,395,898
                                         --------------  --------------                   --------------
  Total Operating Costs                       6,026,288       2,446,735        2,650,152      11,123,175
                                         --------------  --------------   --------------

  Operating Loss                             (4,131,294)     (2,216,959)      (2,650,152)     (8,998,405)
  Interest expense                             (294,616)                      (2,361,012)     (2,655,628)
  Equity in income of affiliates                                                   4,242           4,242
  Loss on impairment of investment                                              (629,000)       (629,000)
  Interest income                                 7,012                            1,725           8,737
  Other income (expense)                                        (18,816)          (1-302)        (20,118)
                                         --------------  ---------------  --------------- ---------------
  Net Loss                               $   (4,418,898) $   (2,235,775)  $   (5,635,499) $  (12,290,172)
                                         =============== ================ =============== =================
  Cash Used in Operating Activities      $   (2,360,227) $      (55,047)  $   (2,735,543) $   (5,150,817)
                                         =============== ================ =============== =================
  Capital Expenditures                   $      (46,599) $           --   $      (19,316) $      (65,915)
                                         =============== ================ =============== =================
  Investment in equity method
  subsidiaries                           $           --  $      694,135   $           --  $      694,135
                                        =============== ================ =============== =================
  Total Assets                           $    3,242,295  $    3,278,160   $    1,950,915  $    8,471,370
                                         =============== ================ =============== =================
                  1999
                  ----
  Operating Revenues                     $    1,536,884  $    1,313,916                   $    2,850,800
                                         --------------  --------------                   --------------

  Operating Costs
     Cost of sales                            1,181,321                                        1,181,321
     Marketing, general and                   2,669,818          77,098   $    2,648,054       5,394,970
     administrative
     Depreciation and amortization              616,563       1,627,657          507,319       2,751,539
     Other                                      335,766         664,246                        1,000,012
                                         --------------- ---------------  --------------- -----------------
  Total Operating Costs                       4,803,468       2,369,001        3,155,373      10,327,842
                                         --------------- ---------------  --------------- -----------------

  Operating Loss                             (3,266,584)     (1,055,085)      (3,155,373)     (7,477,042)
  Interest expense                             (259,097)                        (901,001)     (1,160,098)
  Equity in loss of affiliates                                 (440,746)                        (440,746)
  Loss on impairment of investment                           (4,000,000)                      (4,000,000)
  Interest income                                                                124,402         124,402
  Other income (expense)                                                         223,057         223,057
                                         --------------- ---------------  --------------- -----------------
  Net Loss                               $   (3,525,681) $   (5,495,831)  $   (3,708,915) $  (12,730,427)
                                         =============== ================ =============== =================
  Cash Used in Operating Activities      $   (1,951,640) $    1,495,898   $   (3,002,335) $   (3,458,077)
                                         =============== ================ =============== =================
  Capital Expenditures                   $      (96,365) $      (14,730)  $           --  $     (111,095)
                                         =============== ================ =============== =================
  Investment in Equity Method
  Subsidiaries                           $           --  $    3,327,871   $           --  $    3,327,871
                                         --------------- ---------------  --------------- -----------------
  Total Assets                           $    3,457,574  $    9,052,687   $    1,757,734  $   14,267,995
                                         =============== ================ =============== =================
                  1998
  Operating Revenues                     $    1,328,491  $      892,094                   $    2,220,585
                                         --------------- ---------------  --------------- -----------------

  Operating Costs
     Cost of sales                              755,281                                          755,281
     Marketing, general and
     administrative                           1,224,910          50,312    $   2,871,575        4,146,797
     Depreciation and amortization             444,003        1,627,267          639,300        2,710,570
     Other                                     138,335          888,616                         1,026,951
                                         --------------- ---------------  --------------- -----------------
  Total Operating Costs                     2,562,529         2,566,195       3,510,875         8,639,599
                                         --------------- ---------------  --------------- -----------------

  Operating Loss                           (1,234,038)       (1,674,101)     (3,510,875)       (6,419,014)
  Interest expense                            (22,401)                       (1,137,524)       (1,159,925)
  Equity in loss of affiliates                                 (573,080)                         (573,080)
  Interest income                                                               495,967           495,967
  Other income (expense)                                        872,235                           872,235
                                         --------------- ---------------  --------------- -----------------
  Net Loss                               $(1,256,439)    $  (1,374,946)   $  (4,152,432)  $   (6,783,817)
                                         =============== ================ =============== =================
  Cash Used in Operating Activities      $(1,693,259)    $     (22,059)   $  (2,926,740)  $   (4,642,058)
                                         =============== ================ =============== =================
  Capital Expenditures                   $  (115,955)    $    (186,120)   $          --   $     (302,075)
                                         =============== ================ =============== =================

    (a)  Consists primarily of KFx corporate office activities and consolidating entries.
</TABLE>

    Since its acquisition in 1998, only the Pegasus segment has derived any
significant revenue from outside the United States, which approximated
$119,000, $224,000 and $166,000 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Such
non-US revenues were derived from Pegasus license and related installation
service agreements with a customer in Canada, pursuant to which Pegasus is
paid in US dollars. Neither segment has any significant assets outside of
the United States.

    During 2000, three individual Pegasus clients accounted for greater
than 10%, each, of consolidated revenues (30%, 18% and 12%). During 1999,
two individual Pegasus clients accounted for greater than 10%, each, of
consolidated revenues (19% and 11%). During 1998, three individual Pegasus
clients accounted for greater than 10%, each, of consolidated revenues
(22%, 13%, and 10%). During 2000, K-Fuel derived its revenues primarily
from a K-Fuel research and development contract (11% of consolidated
revenues). During 1999 K-Fuel derived its revenues principally from the
K-Fuel license fee (35% of consolidated revenues). During 1998 K-Fuel
derived its revenue principally from two parties (25% of consolidated
revenues for services related to the KFP Facility and 15% of consolidated
revenues from a K-Fuel research and development contract).


NOTE 18. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

    On February 9, 2001, KFx closed a transaction with Evergreen Resources,
Inc. ("Evergreen") under which KFx sold to Evergreen a portion of its
Pegasus Preferred Stock investment in Pegasus, representing an approximate
8/8% as converted interest in Pegasus, for $1,500,000. KFx is obligated to
repurchase this preferred stock for $2,000,000 plus 6% of the repurchase
price per annum on January 31, 2002, or earlier upon the occurence of
certain events, such as a change in control. Under certain elections
available to Evergreen to purchase from KFx an additional interest in
Pegasus, Evergreen can elect to defer the repurchase date to January 31,
2003. In certain circumstances, Evergreen can elect to exchange its
interest in Pegasus, valued at $2,000,000 plus 6% per annum, and any
subsequently acquired interest in Pegasus, for common stock of KFx at $3.65
per share, subject to certain adjustments. In addition, Evergreen was
provided with a five-year warrant to purchase 1,000,000 shares of KFx
common stock at $3.65 per share, subject to certain adjustments.
Evergreen's Chairman is a member of the Board of Directors of KFx.

    Through April 13, 2001, KFx has completed sales of additional amounts
of its Pegasus Preferred Stock investment equivalent to an 2.4% as
converted interest in Pegasus, for $400,000, subject to KFx's obligation to
repurchase such preferred stock for $533,333 plus 6% per annum of the
repurchase price, at the one year anniversary of the sale, or earlier in
certain circumstances. As a part of these transactions, KFx granted
warrants to purchase 266,667 shares of its common stock, at $3.65 per
share, subject to certain adjustments. Of these sales, $150,000, were to
directors of KFx, including the Chairman.

    Subsequent to December 31, 2000 through April 13, 2001, Kennecott
Energy has exercised it rights to purchase $500,000 of additional Pegasus
Preferred Stock. As a result of these additional investments of Kennecott
Energy in Pegasus Preferred Stock through April 13, 2001 and KFx's sale of
a portion of its Pegasus Preferred Stock through April 12, 2001 to
Evergreen and other private investors, the ownership of Pegasus at April
12, 2001 is approximately as follows: KFx--57.9%, Pegasus founders--16.0%,
Kennecott Energy--14.9%, Evergreen Resources, Inc.--8.8% and other private
investors--2.4%.

    On February 26, 2001, KFx extended a $500,000 demand line of credit to
Pegasus bearing interest at 2% over the prime rate. KFx received additional
consideration in the form of fully-exercisable stock purchase warrants for
475,000 shares of Pegasus common stock at $1.07 per share, expiring
February 26,2004.




NOTE 19. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

    The following table presents selected unaudited quarterly financial
data for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                            (UNAUDITED)
   2000                       First Quarter     Second Quarter      Third Quarter       Fourth Quarter
   ----                       -------------     --------------      -------------       --------------

<S>                                <C>                <C>                 <C>                 <C>
   Operating revenues              $  465,638         $  860,530          $  504,796          $  293,806
   Gross margin*                        6,281            344,836            (63,848)           (719,767)
   Net loss                       (2,322,756)        (3,049,515)         (2,731,885)         (4,186,016)
   Basic  and  diluted  net
   loss per share                       (.09)              (.12)               (.11)               (.17)

   1999
   ----

   Operating revenues              $  556,157        $ 1,425,464          $  559,504          $  309,675
   Gross margin*                      196,225            804,342             109,064           (104,398)
   Net loss                       (2,246,124)        (1,535,218)         (2,493,539)         (6,455,546)
   Basic  and  diluted  net
   loss per share                       (.09)              (.07)               (.10)               (.27)
</TABLE>

*Operating revenues less cost of software licenses and services, K-Fuel
demonstration plant and laboratory operations costs and expenses and K-Fuel
royalty expense.


    During the fourth quarter of 2000, (a) a $629,000 impairment provision
related to the Company's investment in Charco Redondo was recorded (see
Note 7) and (b) a $464,000 write-down of certain idle equipment at the
K-Fuel demonstration plant and laboratory was recorded (see Note 1). During
the fourth quarter of 1999 a $4,000,000 impairment provision related to the
Company's investment in KFP was recorded (see Note 6).





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>0002.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.7 - DESIGNATION OF SERIES B PREFERRED
<TEXT>


                        STATEMENT RESPECTING RIGHTS
                                     OF
                          SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK
                                     OF
                         PEGASUS TECHNOLOGIES, INC.


                     DESIGNATION OF SERIES B PREFERRED


         Three Million Seven Hundred Forty-Two Thousand Seven Hundred and
Ninety-Seven (3,742,797) of authorized shares of Preferred Stock are hereby
designated "Series B Preferred Stock" (the "SERIES B PREFERRED"). The
Series B Preferred shall be issued in one or more classes up to the number
of shares specified on Schedule A for each class designated thereon, with
each class having identical rights, preferences and privileges except as
otherwise expressly provided herein. No shares of a subsequent class shall
be issued until all of the authorized shares of the preceding class have
been issued (e.g., no class 2 shares shall be issued until all of the class
1 shares have been issued). The rights, preferences, privileges,
restrictions and other matters relating to the Series B Preferred are as
follows:

1.       DIVIDEND RIGHTS.

         (a) DECLARED DIVIDENDS. Holders of Series B Preferred, in
preference to the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the
Corporation that is not by its terms expressly senior in right of payment
to the Series B Preferred (collectively, "JUNIOR STOCK," which term shall
not include the Series C Preferred), shall be entitled to receive cash
dividends that accrue cumulatively during each fiscal year of the
Corporation at the rate of 6% of the Original Issue Price (as defined
herein and as determined on a per class basis) per annum on each
outstanding share of Series B Preferred (as adjusted for any stock
dividends, combinations, splits, recapitalizations and the like with
respect to such shares). Dividends on the Series B Preferred shall be
cumulative and shall begin to accumulate (whether or not declared) from the
date of issuance of each class of the Series B Preferred. Such dividends
shall be payable if, when and as declared by the Board of Directors, but
only out of funds that are legally available therefor. In the event that
the Corporation declares or pays any dividends upon the Common Stock
(whether payable in cash, securities or other property) other than
dividends or portions thereof payable in shares of Common Stock, the
Corporation shall also declare and pay to the holders of the Series B
Preferred at the same time that it declares and pays such dividends to the
holders of the Common Stock, the dividends that would have been declared
and paid with respect to the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the
Series B Preferred had all of the outstanding Series B Preferred been
converted immediately prior to the record date for such dividend, or if no
record date is fixed, the date as of which the record holders of Common
Stock entitled to such dividends are to be determined; provided, however,
that such dividends shall accrue and be paid to the holders of the Series B
Preferred only in an amount equal to the amount by which the dividends
payable on the Common Stock exceed the other dividends payable with respect
to the Series B Preferred for the same period.

         (b) PREFERENCE.

                  (i) So long as any Series B Preferred remains
outstanding, without the prior written unanimous consent of the holders of
the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred, the Corporation shall not,
nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, redeem, purchase or otherwise
acquire directly or indirectly any Junior Stock, nor shall the Corporation
directly or indirectly pay or declare any dividend or make any distribution
upon any Junior Stock. The provisions of this Section 1(b) shall not,
however, apply to (A) the acquisition of shares of any Junior Stock in
exchange for shares of any other Junior Stock, or (B) the payment of cash
dividends on the Common Stock to the extent that (x) there are no accrued
but unpaid Series B Preferred dividends and (y) equivalent dividends are
paid on the Series B Preferred as provided above, or (C) any repurchase of
the capital stock of the Corporation in accordance with the terms of any
stock incentive plan of the Corporation that has been approved by the
Corporation's Board of Directors.

                  (ii) The Series B Preferred and the Series C Preferred
shall have pari passu dividend rights and neither series shall have
dividend preferences over the other. Dividends shall not be declared on the
Series B Preferred unless also declared on the Series C Preferred, and
dividends shall not be declared on the Series C Preferred unless also
declared on the Series B Preferred; provided, however that partial
dividends may be declared for each series so long as dividends are
proportionately declared for both the Series B Preferred and the Series C
Preferred (relative to the accrued, but unpaid dividends for each Series).

         (c) PARTIAL DIVIDENDS. In the event the Board of Directors of the
Corporation declares dividends in a fiscal year in an amount less than the
aggregate amount of the dividend preference on the Series B Preferred set
forth in Section 1(a) above, then the entire amount of the dividends
declared by the Board of Directors shall be distributed ratably among the
holders of the Series B Preferred (based upon the aggregate dividend
payable to the holders of the Series B Preferred (determined on a
class-by-class basis) and the relative accrued dividend of each class of
Series B Preferred).

2.       VOTING RIGHTS.

         (a) GENERALLY. Except as otherwise provided herein or as required
by law, the Series B Preferred shall vote with the shares of the Common
Stock of the Corporation (and not as a separate class) at any annual or
special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, and may act by written
consent in the same manner as the Common Stock, in either case upon the
following basis: each holder of shares of Series B Preferred shall be
entitled to such number of votes as shall be equal to the whole number of
shares of Common Stock into which such holder's aggregate number of shares
of Series B Preferred are convertible (pursuant to Section 4 below)
immediately after the close of business on the record date fixed for such
meeting or the effective date of such written consent.

         (b) SEPARATE VOTE OF SERIES B PREFERRED. For so long as Kennecott
Energy Company owns at least four percent (4%) of the Common Stock Deemed
Outstanding (as defined below) or 375,000 shares of Series B Preferred, the
Corporation shall not, without first obtaining the unanimous affirmative
vote or written consent of the holders of the then outstanding shares of
Series B Preferred, voting together as a single series (the "REQUIRED
HOLDERS"), (i) amend or repeal any provision of, or add any provision to,
the Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Corporation if such action
would alter or change the preferences, rights, privileges or powers of, or
the restrictions provided for the benefit of, or create a class of stock
senior in rights and preferences to, the Series B Preferred or Series C
Preferred, (ii) effect any Liquidation (as defined in Section 3(c)), (iii)
issue equity securities other than Junior Stock (or any securities
convertible into or exchangeable for such equity securities including,
without limitation, debt securities containing equity features), (iv)
increase the number of the Corporation's fully diluted equity authorized
for issuance to employees pursuant to any incentive stock or other plan,
whether currently in effect or subsequently created, (v) effect the buyback
or repurchase of Common Stock of the Corporation (except for buybacks from
directors or employees under the equity incentive plan), (vi) increase the
authorized size of the Board of Directors to more than five (5) members,
(vii) pay a dividend on the Series B Preferred or Series C Preferred in
other than cash, or (viii) increase the Corporation's debt financing beyond
the amounts permitted in the Stockholders and Voting Agreement currently in
effect. In addition, prior to taking any of the foregoing actions, the
Corporation shall obtain the consent of the holders of the Series C
Preferred in the manner and to the extent required by the Statement
Respecting Rights for the Series C Preferred. With respect to each matter
coming before the holders of the Series B Preferred for a vote pursuant to
this Section 2(b), the holders of the Series B Preferred shall vote
together as a single series and no separate class vote shall be held by the
holders of the various classes of Series B Preferred that may be
outstanding from time to time.

3.       LIQUIDATION RIGHTS.

         (a) LIQUIDATION AMOUNT. Upon any Liquidation (as defined below),
whether voluntary or involuntary, before any distribution or payment shall
be made to the holders of any Junior Stock, the holders of Series B
Preferred shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Corporation
an amount with respect to each share of Series B Preferred equal to the sum
of (i) the Liquidation Value (determined with respect to each class)
subject to appropriate adjustment to reflect any stock dividend, stock
split, combination or any other similar reclassification, reorganization or
recapitalization affecting the shares of Series B Preferred plus (ii) all
accumulated but unpaid dividends thereon (the "SERIES B LIQUIDATION
PREFERENCE"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon any Liquidation, the
holders of the Series B Preferred can convert the Series B Preferred to
Common Stock.

         (b) PARTICIPATION. Once the holders of Series B Preferred have
received payment of the Series B Liquidation Preference, the holders of the
Series B Preferred shall participate in any additional distributions
proportionately with the Common Stock as if such Series B Preferred was
converted into Common Stock on or prior to the Liquidation.

         (c) LIQUIDATION EVENTS. At the option of the Required Holders, the
following events shall be considered a "LIQUIDATION" for purposes of
Section 3(a):

                  (i) the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the
Corporation;

                  (ii) any merger, acquisition, sale of voting control,
consolidation, business combination, reorganization or recapitalization of
the Corporation (whether accomplished in a single transaction or a series
of related transactions) in which the stockholders of the Corporation
immediately prior to such transaction own capital stock representing less
than 50% of the Corporation's voting power immediately after such
transaction (an "ACQUISITION"); or

                  (iii) a sale, lease or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Corporation (an "ASSET TRANSFER").

         (d) VALUATION. In any of the events deemed to be a Liquidation, if
the consideration received by the Corporation is other than cash, its value
will be deemed to be its fair market value as determined in good faith by
the Board of Directors. Any securities shall be valued as follows:

                  (i) securities not subject to investment letter or other
similar restrictions on free marketability covered by (ii) below:

                                    (A) if traded on a securities exchange
                  or through the Nasdaq National Market, the value shall be
                  deemed to be the average of the closing prices of the
                  securities on such quotation system over the thirty (30)
                  day period ending three (3) days prior to the closing;

                                    (B) if actively traded
                  over-the-counter, the value shall be deemed to be the
                  average of the closing bid or sale prices (whichever is
                  applicable) over the thirty (30) day period ending three
                  (3) days prior to the closing; and,

                                    (C) if there is no active public
                  market, the value shall be the fair market value thereof,
                  as determined by the Board of Directors.

                  (ii) the method of valuation of securities subject to
investment letter or other restrictions on free marketability (other than
restrictions arising solely by virtue of a stockholder's status as an
affiliate or former affiliate) may be to make an appropriate discount from
the market value determined as above in (i)(A), (B) or (C) to reflect the
approximate fair market value thereof, as determined by the Board of
Directors.

         (e) PROPORTIONATE PAYMENTS. The Series B Preferred and the Series
C Preferred shall have pari passu liquidation rights and neither series
shall have liquidation preferences over the other. If, upon any
Liquidation, the assets of the Corporation shall be insufficient to make
payment in full to all holders of Series B Preferred and Series C
Preferred, then such assets shall be distributed among the holders of
Series B Preferred and Series C Preferred at the time outstanding ratably
in proportion to the full amounts to which they would otherwise
respectively be entitled.

4.       CONVERSION RIGHTS.

         The holders of the Series B Preferred shall have the following
rights with respect to the conversion of the Series B Preferred into shares
of Common Stock:

         (a) OPTIONAL CONVERSION. Subject to and in compliance with the
provisions of this Section 4, any shares of Series B Preferred may, at the
option of the holder, be converted at any time into fully-paid and
nonassessable shares of Common Stock. The number of shares of Common Stock
to which a holder of Series B Preferred shall be entitled upon conversion
shall be the product obtained by multiplying the "Series B Conversion Rate"
then in effect (determined as provided in Section 4(c) and on a
class-by-class basis) by the number of shares of Series B Preferred being
converted.

         (b) AUTOMATIC CONVERSION. Each share of Series B Preferred shall
automatically be converted into shares of Common Stock, based on the
then-effective Series B Conversion Price for such Series B Preferred
(determined with respect to each class), at any time immediately prior to a
Qualified IPO. Upon such automatic conversion, all accrued but unpaid
dividends, if any, shall be paid in accordance with Section 4(e)(ii).

         (c) SERIES B PREFERRED CONVERSION RATE. The conversion rate in
effect at any time for conversion of each class of the Series B Preferred
(the "SERIES B CONVERSION RATE") shall be the quotient obtained by dividing
the Average Series B Price (as such amount may vary from time to time), by
the "Series B Conversion Price" calculated with respect to each class as
provided in Section 4(d).

         (d) CONVERSION PRICE. The conversion price for each class of the
Series B Preferred (the "SERIES B CONVERSION PRICE") shall initially be the
Average Series B Price, as such amount may vary from time to time. Such
initial Series B Conversion Price shall be adjusted from time to time in
accordance with this Section 4. All references to the Series B Conversion
Price herein shall mean the Series B Conversion Price as so adjusted.

         (e) MECHANICS OF CONVERSION.

                  (i) OPTIONAL CONVERSION. Each holder of Series B
Preferred who desires to convert the same into shares of Common Stock
pursuant to this Section 4 shall surrender the certificate or certificates
therefor, duly endorsed, at the office of the Corporation or any transfer
agent for the Series B Preferred, and shall give written notice to the
Corporation at such office that such holder elects to convert the same.
Such notice shall state the number and class of shares of Series B
Preferred being converted. Thereupon, the Corporation shall promptly issue
and deliver at such office to such holder a certificate or certificates for
the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder is entitled and
shall promptly pay (A) in cash or, to the extent sufficient funds are not
then legally available therefor, in Common Stock (at the Common Stock's
fair market value determined by the Board of Directors as of the date of
such conversion), the Accrued Series A Preference, if any, and any accrued
but unpaid dividends and any declared but unpaid dividends on the shares of
Series B Preferred being converted, and (B) in cash (at the Common Stock's
fair market value determined by the Board of Directors as of the date of
conversion) the value of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise
issuable to any holder of Series B Preferred. Such conversion shall be
deemed to have been made at the close of business on the date of such
surrender of the certificates representing the shares of Series B Preferred
to be converted, and the person entitled to receive the shares of Common
Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as
the record holder of such shares of Common Stock on such date.

                  (ii) AUTOMATIC CONVERSION. Upon the occurrence of an
event specified in Section 4(b) above, the outstanding shares of Series B
Preferred shall be converted into Common Stock automatically without any
further action by the holders of such shares and whether or not the
certificates representing such shares are surrendered to the Corporation or
its transfer agent; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not be
obligated to issue certificates evidencing the shares of Common Stock
issuable upon such conversion unless the certificates evidencing such
shares of Series B Preferred are either delivered to the Corporation or its
transfer agent as provided below, or the holder notifies the Corporation or
its transfer agent that such certificates have been lost, stolen or
destroyed and executes an agreement reasonably satisfactory to the
Corporation to indemnify the Corporation from any loss incurred by it in
connection with such certificates. Upon surrender by any holder of the
certificates formerly representing shares of Series B Preferred at the
office of the Corporation or any transfer agent for the Series B Preferred,
there shall be issued and delivered to such holder promptly at such office
and in its name as shown on such surrendered certificate or certificates, a
certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock into
which the shares of Series B Preferred surrendered were convertible on the
date on which such automatic conversion occurred, and the Corporation shall
promptly pay in cash (unless otherwise agreed by the holders of the Series
B Preferred), all accrued but unpaid dividends on the shares of Series B
Preferred converted. Until surrendered as provided above, each certificate
formerly representing shares of Series B Preferred shall be deemed for all
corporate purposes to represent the number of shares of Common Stock
resulting from such automatic conversion.

         (f) ADJUSTMENT FOR STOCK SPLITS AND COMBINATIONS. If the
Corporation shall at any time or from time to time after the date that the
first share of Series B Preferred is issued (the "ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE")
effect a subdivision of the outstanding Common Stock without a
corresponding subdivision of the Series B Preferred, the Series B
Conversion Price for each class of Series B Preferred in effect immediately
before that subdivision shall be proportionately decreased. Conversely, if
the Corporation shall at any time or from time to time after the Original
Issue Date combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller
number of shares without a corresponding combination of the Series B
Preferred, the Series B Conversion Price for each class of Series B
Preferred in effect immediately before the combination shall be
proportionately increased. Any adjustment under this subsection (f) shall
become effective at the close of business on the date the subdivision or
combination becomes effective.

         (g) ADJUSTMENT FOR COMMON STOCK DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS. If
the Corporation at any time or from time to time after the Original Issue
Date makes, or fixes a record date for the determination of holders of
Common Stock entitled to receive, a dividend or other distribution payable
in additional shares of Common Stock, in each such event the Series B
Conversion Price for each class of Series B Preferred shall be decreased as
of the time of such issuance or, in the event such record date is fixed, as
of the close of business on such record date, by multiplying the Series B
Conversion Price for each class of Series B Preferred by a fraction (1) the
numerator of which is the total number of shares of Common Stock issued and
outstanding immediately prior to the time of such issuance or the close of
business on such record date, and (2) the denominator of which is the total
number of shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior
to the time of such issuance or the close of business on such record date
plus the number of shares of Common Stock issuable in payment of such
dividend or distribution; provided, however, that if such record date is
fixed and such dividend is not fully paid or if such distribution is not
fully made on the date fixed therefor, the Series B Conversion Price for
each class of Series B Preferred shall be recomputed accordingly as of the
close of business on such record date and thereafter the Series B
Conversion Price for each class of Series B Preferred shall be adjusted
pursuant to this subsection (g) to reflect the actual payment of such
dividend or distribution; provided, further, however, that no such
adjustment shall be made if, with the consent of the holders of the Series
B Preferred the holders of Series B Preferred simultaneously receive (i) a
dividend or other distribution of shares of Common Stock in a number equal
to the number of shares of Common Stock they would have received if all
outstanding shares of Series B Preferred had been converted into Common
Stock on the date of such event or (ii) a dividend or other distribution of
shares of Series B Preferred, as of the date of such event, convertible
into such number of shares of Common Stock as is equal to the number of
additional shares of Common Stock being issued with respect to each share
of Common Stock in such dividend or distribution.

         (h) ADJUSTMENTS FOR OTHER DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS. If the
Corporation at any time or from time to time after the Original Issue Date
makes, or fixes a record date for the determination of holders of Common
Stock entitled to receive, a dividend or other distribution payable in
securities of the Corporation other than shares of Common Stock, in each
such event provision shall be made so that the holders of the Series B
Preferred shall receive upon conversion thereof, in addition to the number
of shares of Common Stock receivable thereupon, the amount of other
securities of the Corporation which they would have received had their
Series B Preferred been converted into Common Stock on the date of such
event and had they thereafter during the period from the date of such event
to and including the conversion date, retained such securities receivable
by them as aforesaid during such period, subject to all other adjustments
called for during such period under this Section 4 with respect to the
rights of the holders of the Series B Preferred or with respect to such
other securities by their terms; provided, however, that no such adjustment
shall be made if the holders of Series B Preferred simultaneously receive a
dividend or other distribution of such securities in an amount equal to the
amount of such securities as they would have received if all outstanding
shares of Series B Preferred had been converted into Common Stock on the
date of such event.

         (i) ADJUSTMENT FOR RECLASSIFICATION, EXCHANGE AND SUBSTITUTION. If
at any time or from time to time after the Original Issue Date, the Common
Stock issuable upon the conversion of the Series B Preferred is changed
into the same or a different number of shares of any class or classes of
stock, whether by recapitalization, reclassification or otherwise (other
than a Liquidation or a subdivision or combination of shares or stock
dividend provided for elsewhere in this Section 4), each holder of Series B
Preferred shall have the right thereafter to convert the Series B Preferred
into the kind and amount of stock and other securities and property
receivable upon such recapitalization, reclassification or other change by
holders of the maximum number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of Series B Preferred could have been converted immediately prior to
such recapitalization, reclassification or change, all subject to further
adjustment as provided herein or with respect to such other securities or
property by the terms thereof.

         (j) REORGANIZATIONS, ACQUISITIONS OR ASSET TRANSFERS. If at any
time or from time to time after the Original Issue Date, there is a capital
reorganization of the Common Stock, an Acquisition or Asset Transfer (other
than a recapitalization, subdivision, combination, reclassification, or
stock dividend of shares provided for elsewhere in this Section 4),
provision shall be made so that the holders of the Series B Preferred shall
thereafter be entitled to receive upon conversion of the Series B Preferred
the number of shares of stock or other securities or property of the
Corporation to which a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock
deliverable upon conversion would have been entitled on such capital
reorganization, Acquisition or Asset Transfer subject to adjustment in
respect of such stock or securities by the terms thereof. In any such case,
appropriate adjustment shall be made in the application of the provisions
of this Section 4 with respect to the rights of the holders of Series B
Preferred after the capital reorganization, Acquisition or Asset Transfer
to the end that the provisions of this Section 4 (including adjustment of
the Series B Conversion Price for each class of Series B Preferred and the
number of shares issuable upon conversion of such class of the Series B
Preferred) shall be applicable after that event and be as nearly equivalent
as practicable.

         (k) SALE OF SHARES BELOW SERIES B CONVERSION PRICE.

                  (i) If at any time or from time to time after the
Original Issue Date, the Corporation issues or sells, or is deemed by the
express provisions of this subsection (k) to have issued or sold,
Additional Shares of Common Stock (as hereinafter defined), other than as a
dividend or other distribution on any class of stock as provided in Section
4(g) above, and other than a subdivision or combination of shares of Common
Stock as provided in Section 4(f) above, for an Effective Price (as
hereinafter defined) that is less than the then-effective Series B
Conversion Price for any one or more classes of Series B Preferred, then
and in each such case the then-existing Series B Conversion Price for such
class or classes shall be reduced, as of the opening of business on the
date of such issue or sale, to a price determined by multiplying the Series
B Conversion Price for such class or classes by a fraction (A) the
numerator of which shall be (x) the number of shares of Common Stock Deemed
Outstanding (as defined below) immediately prior to such issue or sale,
plus (y) the number of shares of Common Stock which the aggregate
consideration received (as determined by paragraph (ii) of this subsection
(k)) by the Corporation for the total number of Additional Shares of Common
Stock so issued would purchase at such Series B Conversion Price, and (B)
the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock
Deemed Outstanding (as defined below) immediately prior to such issue or
sale plus the total number of Additional Shares of Common Stock so issued.

                  (ii) For purposes of making any adjustment required under
this subsection (k), the consideration received by the Corporation for any
issue or sale of securities shall (A) to the extent it consists of cash, be
computed at the net amount of cash received by the Corporation after
deduction of any underwriting or similar commissions, compensation or
concessions paid or allowed by the Corporation in connection with such
issue or sale but without deduction of any expenses payable by the
Corporation, (B) to the extent it consists of property other than cash, be
computed at the fair value of that property as determined in good faith by
the Board of Directors, and (C) if Additional Shares of Common Stock,
Convertible Securities (as hereinafter defined) or rights or options to
purchase either Additional Shares of Common Stock or Convertible Securities
are issued or sold together with other stock or securities or other assets
of the Corporation for a consideration which covers both, be computed as
the portion of the consideration so received that may be reasonably
determined in good faith by the Board of Directors to be allocable to such
Additional Shares of Common Stock, Convertible Securities or rights or
options.

                  (iii) For purposes of the adjustment required under this
subsection (k), if the Corporation issues or sells any rights or options
for the purchase of, stock or other securities convertible into, Additional
Shares of Common Stock (such convertible stock or securities being herein
referred to as "CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES") and if the Effective Price of such
Additional Shares of Common Stock is less than the Series B Conversion
Price for the Series B Preferred, in each case the Corporation shall be
deemed to have issued at the time of the issuance of such rights or options
or Convertible Securities the maximum number of Additional Shares of Common
Stock issuable upon exercise or conversion thereof and to have received as
consideration for the issuance of such shares an amount equal to the total
amount of the consideration, if any, received by the Corporation for the
issuance of such rights or options or Convertible Securities, plus, in the
case of such rights or options, the minimum amounts of consideration, if
any, payable to the Corporation upon the exercise of such rights or
options, plus, in the case of Convertible Securities, the minimum amounts
of consideration, if any, payable to the Corporation (other than by
cancellation of liabilities or obligations evidenced by such Convertible
Securities) upon the conversion thereof; provided, that if in the case of
Convertible Securities the minimum amounts of such consideration cannot be
ascertained, but are a function of anti-dilution or similar protective
clauses, the Corporation shall be deemed to have received the minimum
amounts of consideration without reference to such clauses; provided
further that if the minimum amount of consideration payable to the
Corporation upon the exercise or conversion of rights, options or
Convertible Securities is reduced over time or on the occurrence or
nonoccurrence of specified events other than by reason of antidilution
adjustments, the Effective Price shall be recalculated using the figure to
which such minimum amount of consideration is reduced; provided further
that if the minimum amount of consideration payable to the Corporation upon
the exercise or conversion of such rights, options or Convertible
Securities is subsequently increased, the Effective Price shall be again
recalculated using the increased minimum amount of consideration payable to
the Corporation upon the exercise or conversion of such rights, options or
Convertible Securities. No further adjustment of the Series B Conversion
Price for any one or more of classes of Series B Preferred, as adjusted
upon the issuance of such rights, options or Convertible Securities, shall
be made as a result of the actual issuance of Additional Shares of Common
Stock on the exercise of any such rights or options or the conversion of
any such Convertible Securities. If any such rights or options or the
conversion privilege represented by any such Convertible Securities shall
expire without having been exercised, the Series B Conversion Price for
each class of Series B Preferred, as adjusted upon the issuance of such
rights, options or Convertible Securities shall be readjusted to the Series
B Conversion Price for each class of Series B Preferred which would have
been in effect had an adjustment been made on the basis that the only
Additional Shares of Common Stock so issued were the Additional Shares of
Common Stock, if any, actually issued or sold on the exercise of such
rights or options or rights of conversion of such Convertible Securities,
and such Additional Shares of Common Stock, if any, were issued or sold for
the consideration actually received by the Corporation upon the exercise,
plus the consideration, if any, actually received by the Corporation for
the granting of all such rights or options, whether or not exercised, plus
the consideration received for issuing or selling the Convertible
Securities actually converted, plus the consideration, if any, actually
received by the Corporation (other than by cancellation of liabilities or
obligations evidenced by such Convertible Securities) on the conversion of
such Convertible Securities, provided that such readjustment shall not
apply to prior conversions of Series B Preferred.

                  (iv) "ADDITIONAL SHARES OF COMMON STOCK" shall mean all
shares of Common Stock issued by the Corporation or deemed to be issued
pursuant to this subsection (k), other than (A) shares of Common Stock
issued or issuable upon conversion of the Series B Preferred or the Series
C Preferred; (B) the Reserved Employee Stock; (C) shares of Common Stock
issued in any merger, Acquisition, strategic transaction, or equipment
leasing or debt financing, any of which must have been unanimously approved
by the members of the Board; (D) shares of Common Stock issued or issuable
by reason of a dividend, stock split or other distribution on shares of
Common Stock that is covered by Section 4(f) or Section 4(g); or (E) shares
of Common Stock issued or issuable as a dividend or distribution on the
Series B Preferred or the Series C Preferred. The "EFFECTIVE PRICE" of
Additional Shares of Common Stock shall mean the quotient determined by
dividing the total number of Additional Shares of Common Stock issued or
sold, or deemed to have been issued or sold by the Corporation under this
subsection (k), into the aggregate consideration received, or deemed to
have been received by the Corporation for such issue under this subsection
(k), for such Additional Shares of Common Stock.

         (l) CERTIFICATE OF ADJUSTMENT. In each case of an adjustment or
readjustment of the Series B Conversion Price for any class or classes of
Series B Preferred, the Corporation, at its expense, shall compute such
adjustment or readjustment (on a class-by-class basis) in accordance with
the provisions hereof and prepare a certificate showing such adjustment or
readjustment, and shall mail such certificate, by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to each registered holder of Series B Preferred at the holder's
address as shown in the Corporation's books. The certificate shall set
forth such adjustment or readjustment, showing in detail the facts upon
which such adjustment or readjustment is based, including a statement of
(A) the Series B Conversion Price for each class of Series B Preferred at
the time in effect, and (B) the type and amount, if any, of other property
which at the time would be received upon conversion of the Series B
Preferred.

         (m) NOTICES OF RECORD DATE. Upon (i) any taking by the Corporation
of a record of the holders of any class of securities for the purpose of
determining the holders thereof who are entitled to receive any dividend or
other distribution, or (ii) any Liquidation or other capital reorganization
of the Corporation, any reclassification or recapitalization of the capital
stock of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation
with or into any other corporation, the Corporation shall mail to each
holder of Series B Preferred at least ten (10) days prior to the record
date specified therein a notice specifying (A) the date on which any such
record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend or distribution and
a description of such dividend or distribution, (B) the date on which any
such Liquidation, reorganization, reclassification, transfer,
consolidation, merger, is expected to become effective, and (C) the date,
if any, that is to be fixed as to when the holders of record of Common
Stock (or other securities) shall be entitled to exchange their shares of
Common Stock (or other securities) for securities or other property
deliverable upon such Liquidation, reorganization, reclassification,
transfer, consolidation, or merger.

         (n) FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional shares of Common Stock shall
be issued upon conversion of Series B Preferred. All shares of Common Stock
(including fractions thereof) issuable upon conversion of more than one
share of Series B Preferred by a holder thereof shall be aggregated for
purposes of determining whether the conversion would result in the issuance
of any fractional share. If, after the aforementioned aggregation, the
conversion would result in the issuance of any fractional share, the
Corporation shall, in lieu of issuing any fractional share, pay cash equal
to the product of such fraction multiplied by the Common Stock's fair
market value (as determined by the Board) on the date of conversion.

         (o) RESERVATION OF STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION. The Corporation
shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized but
unissued shares of Common Stock solely for the purpose of effecting the
conversion of the shares of the Series B Preferred, such number of its
shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect
the conversion of all outstanding shares of the Series B Preferred. If at
any time the number of authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock shall
not be sufficient to effect the conversion of all then outstanding shares
of the Series B Preferred, the Corporation will take such corporate action
as may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary to increase its
authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock to such number of shares as
shall be sufficient for such purpose.

         (p) ADJUSTMENTS FOR ALL CLASSES. Any adjustments contemplated by
this Section 4 shall be made for each class of Series B Preferred, whether
or not outstanding at such time. In the event any class of Series B
Preferred is not outstanding at the time of an adjustment, such adjustment
shall take effect immediately upon the issuance of such class of Series B
Preferred.

         (q) ADJUSTMENTS AFFECTING ADVERSE SERIES B ISSUE PRICE. The
Average Series B Issue Price shall be recomputed at the time of each
issuance of shares of Series B Preferred. Any adjustments contemplated by
this Section 4 which have been made since the Original Issue Date shall be
applied to such recomputed Average Series B Issue Price as if such amount
was the initial Series B Conversion Price contemplated by Section 4(d).

5.       CERTAIN DEFINITIONS.

         "ACCRUED SERIES A PREFERENCE" of each class of the Series B
Preferred shall be the amount per share set forth for such class under the
column heading "Accrued Series A Preference" on Schedule A attached hereto.

         "ACQUISITION" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(c)(ii).

         "ASSET TRANSFER" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(c)(iii).

         "AVERAGE SERIES B ISSUE PRICE" means, as of any given date, the
price determined by dividing the aggregate proceeds received by the
Corporation from the issuance of shares of Series B Preferred (regardless
of class) by the number of then issued and outstanding shares of Series B
Preferred.

         "COMMON STOCK DEEMED OUTSTANDING" means, as of a given date, the
sum of the number of shares of Common Stock actually outstanding, plus the
number of shares of Common Stock into which the then-outstanding shares of
Series B Preferred and Series C Preferred could be converted if fully
converted on the day immediately preceding the given date plus the number
of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion or exercise of all other
rights, options and convertible securities which were convertible or
exercisable on the day immediately preceding the given date.

         "CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES" has the meaning set forth in Section
4(k)(iii).

         "JUNIOR STOCK" has the meaning set forth in Section 1(a).

         "LIQUIDATION" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(c).

         "LIQUIDATION VALUE" of each class of the Series B Preferred shall
be an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Accrued Series A Preference for
such class, if any, and (ii) the Original Issue Price for such class.

         "ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(f).

         "ORIGINAL ISSUE PRICE" of each class of the Series B Preferred
shall be the amount per share set forth for such class under the column
heading "Original Issue Price" on Schedule A attached hereto.

         "QUALIFIED IPO" shall mean the closing of a firm commitment
underwritten public offering of Common Stock with aggregate gross proceeds
of at least $20 million and a per share price of at least $10.00.

         "REQUIRED HOLDERS" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(b).

         "RESERVED EMPLOYEE STOCK" means up to 1,211,605 of the
Corporation's outstanding shares of Common Stock on a fully diluted basis
issuable to employees, officers, directors or consultants of the
Corporation pursuant to the Corporation's 1999 Stock Incentive Plan.

         "SERIES B CONVERSION PRICE" has the meaning set forth in Section
4(d).

         "SERIES B CONVERSION RATE" has the meaning set forth in Section
4(c).

         "SERIES B LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE" has the meaning set forth in
Section 3(a).

         "SERIES B PREFERRED" has the meaning set forth in the introductory
paragraph hereof.

         "SERIES C PREFERRED" means the shares of Series C Preferred issued
pursuant to that Statement Respecting Rights of Series C Preferred Stock of
the Corporation.

         "SUBSIDIARY" means any corporation of which the shares of
outstanding capital stock possessing the voting power (under ordinary
circumstances) in electing the board of directors are, at the time as of
which any determination is being made, owned by the Corporation either
directly or indirectly through Subsidiaries.

6.       AMENDMENT AND WAIVER.

         No amendment, modification or waiver of any of the terms or
provisions of the Series B Preferred shall be binding or effective without
the prior written consent of the Required Holders and no change in the
terms hereof may be accomplished by merger or consolidation of the
Corporation with another corporation or entity unless the Corporation has
obtained the prior written consent of the Required Holders.

7.       GENERAL PROVISIONS.

         (a) REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER. The Corporation shall keep at its
principal office a register for the registration of the Series B Preferred.
Upon the surrender of any certificate representing Series B Preferred at
such place, the Corporation shall, at the request of the record holder of
such certificate, execute and deliver (at the Corporation's expense) a new
certificate or certificates in exchange therefor representing in the
aggregate the number of shares represented by the surrendered certificate.
Each such new certificate shall be registered in such name and shall
represent such number of shares as is requested by the holder of the
surrendered certificate and shall be substantially identical in form to the
surrendered certificate.

         (b) REPLACEMENT. Upon receipt of evidence reasonably satisfactory
to the Corporation (an affidavit of the registered holder shall be
satisfactory) of the ownership and the loss, theft, destruction or
mutilation of any certificate evidencing shares of Series B Preferred, and
in the case of any such loss, theft or destruction, upon receipt of
indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation (provided that if the
holder is a financial institution or other institutional investor its own
agreement shall be satisfactory), or in the case of any such mutilation
upon surrender of such certificate, the Corporation shall (at its expense)
execute and deliver in lieu of such certificate a new certificate of like
kind representing the number of shares of such class represented by such
lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated certificate and dated the date of such
lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated certificate.

         (c) NOTICES. Any notice required by the provisions of this
Certificate of Designation shall be in writing and shall be deemed
effectively given: (i) upon personal delivery to the party to be notified,
(ii) when sent by confirmed telex or facsimile if sent during normal
business hours of the recipient; if not, then on the next business day,
(iii) five days after having been sent by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (iv) one day after deposit
with a nationally recognized overnight courier, specifying next day
delivery, with written verification of receipt. All notices to stockholders
shall be addressed to each holder of record at the address of such holder
appearing on the books of the Corporation.

         (d) PAYMENT OF TAXES. The Corporation shall pay all taxes (other
than taxes based upon income) and other governmental charges that may be
imposed with respect to the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock
upon conversion of shares of Series B Preferred, excluding any tax or other
charge imposed in connection with any transfer involved in the issue and
delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that in which the
shares of Series B Preferred so converted were registered.

         (e) NO DILUTION OR IMPAIRMENT. The Corporation shall not amend its
Certificate of Incorporation or participate in any reorganization, transfer
of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution, issue or sale of securities
or any other voluntary action, for the purpose of avoiding or seeking to
avoid the observance or performance of any of the terms to be observed or
performed hereunder by the Corporation.

         (f) NO REISSUANCE OF SERIES B PREFERRED. No share or shares of
Series B Preferred acquired by the Corporation by reason of redemption,
purchase, conversion or otherwise shall be reissued.



                                 SCHEDULE A
                                     TO
                            STATEMENT OF RIGHTS
                                     OF
                          SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK

                PER SHARE             SHARES OF SERIES A       NUMBER OF SHARES
CLASS      ORIGINAL ISSUE PRICE       ACCRUED PREFERENCE          AUTHORIZED

 1               $1.2972                     $.0712                 385,441
 2               $1.2335                     $.0552                 405,340
 3               $1.1715                     $.0279                 426,820
 4               $1.1110                     $.0164                 450,055
 5               $1.0668                       n/a                  234,341
 6               $1.0378                       n/a                  240,898
 7               $1.0092                       n/a                  247,734
 8               $  .9809                      n/a                  254,865
 9               $  .9531                      n/a                  262,308
 10              $  .9256                      n/a                  270,082
 11              $  .8986                      n/a                  278,208
 12              $  .8720                      n/a                  286,705





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>0003.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.8 - DESIGNATION OF SERIES C PREFERRED
<TEXT>


                        STATEMENT RESPECTING RIGHTS
                                     OF
                          SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK
                                     OF
                         PEGASUS TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

                     DESIGNATION OF SERIES C PREFERRED



         Two Million Seven Hundred Ninety-Eight Thousand One Hundred
Sixty-One (2,798,161) of authorized shares of Preferred Stock are hereby
designated "Series C Preferred Stock" (the "SERIES C PREFERRED"). The
rights, preferences, privileges, restrictions and other matters relating to
the Series C Preferred are as follows:

1.       DIVIDEND RIGHTS.

         (a) DECLARED DIVIDENDS. Holders of Series C Preferred, in
preference to the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the
Corporation that is not by its terms expressly senior in right of payment
to the Series C Preferred (collectively, "JUNIOR STOCK," which term shall
not include the Series B Preferred), shall be entitled to receive cash
dividends that accrue cumulatively during each fiscal year of the
Corporation at the rate of 6% of the Original Issue Price (as defined
herein) per annum on each outstanding share of Series C Preferred (as
adjusted for any stock dividends, combinations, splits, recapitalizations
and the like with respect to such shares). Dividends on the Series C
Preferred shall be cumulative and shall begin to accumulate (whether or not
declared) on the date of issuance of the Series C Preferred. Such dividends
shall be payable if, when and as declared by the Board of Directors, but
only out of funds that are legally available therefor. In the event that
the Corporation declares or pays any dividends upon the Common Stock
(whether payable in cash, securities or other property) other than
dividends or portions thereof payable in shares of Common Stock, the
Corporation shall also declare and pay to the holders of the Series C
Preferred at the same time that it declares and pays such dividends to the
holders of the Common Stock, the dividends that would have been declared
and paid with respect to the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the
Series C Preferred had all of the outstanding Series C Preferred been
converted immediately prior to the record date for such dividend, or if no
record date is fixed, the date as of which the record holders of Common
Stock entitled to such dividends are to be determined; provided, however,
that such dividends shall accrue and be paid to the holders of the Series C
Preferred only in an amount equal to the amount by which the dividends
payable on the Common Stock exceed the other dividends payable with respect
to the Series C Preferred for the same period.

         (b) PREFERENCE.

                  (i) So long as any Series C Preferred remains
outstanding, without the prior written unanimous consent of the holders of
the outstanding shares of Series C Preferred, the Corporation shall not,
nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, redeem, purchase or otherwise
acquire directly or indirectly any Junior Stock, nor shall the Corporation
directly or indirectly pay or declare any dividend or make any distribution
upon any Junior Stock. The provisions of this Section 1(b) shall not,
however, apply to (A) the acquisition of shares of any Junior Stock in
exchange for shares of any other Junior Stock, or (B) the payment of cash
dividends on the Common Stock to the extent that (x) there are no accrued
but unpaid Series C Preferred dividends and (y) equivalent dividends are
paid on the Series C Preferred as provided above, or (C) any repurchase of
the capital stock of the Corporation in accordance with the terms of any
stock incentive plan of the Corporation that has been approved by the
Corporation's Board of Directors.

                  (ii) The Series B Preferred and the Series C Preferred
shall have pari passu dividend rights and neither series shall have
dividend preferences over the other. Dividends shall not be declared on the
Series B Preferred unless also declared on the Series C Preferred, and
dividends shall not be declared on the Series C Preferred unless also
declared on the Series B Preferred; provided, however that partial
dividends may be declared for each series so long as dividends are
proportionately declared for both the Series B Preferred and the Series C
Preferred (relative to the accrued, but unpaid dividends for each Series).

         (c) PARTIAL DIVIDENDS. In the event the Board of Directors of the
Corporation declares dividends in a fiscal year in an amount less than the
aggregate amount of the dividend preference on the Series C Preferred set
forth in Section 1(a) above, then the entire amount of the dividends
declared by the Board of Directors shall be distributed ratably among the
holders of the Series C Preferred.

2.       VOTING RIGHTS.

         (a) GENERALLY. Except as otherwise provided herein or as required
by law, the Series C Preferred shall vote with the shares of the Common
Stock of the Corporation (and not as a separate class) at any annual or
special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, and may act by written
consent in the same manner as the Common Stock, in either case upon the
following basis: each holder of shares of Series C Preferred shall be
entitled to such number of votes as shall be equal to the whole number of
shares of Common Stock into which such holder's aggregate number of shares
of Series C Preferred are convertible (pursuant to Section 4 below)
immediately after the close of business on the record date fixed for such
meeting or the effective date of such written consent.

         (b) SEPARATE VOTE OF SERIES C PREFERRED. For so long as Kennecott
Energy Company owns at least four percent (4%) of the Common Stock Deemed
Outstanding (as defined below) or 375,000 shares of Series B Preferred, the
Corporation shall not, without first obtaining the affirmative vote or
written consent of a majority in interest of the holders of the then
outstanding shares of Series C Preferred, voting together as a single class
(the "REQUIRED HOLDERS"), (i) amend or repeal any provision of, or add any
provision to, the Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws of the Corporation if
such action would alter or change the preferences, rights, privileges or
powers of, or the restrictions provided for the benefit of, or create a
class of stock senior in rights and preferences to, the Series B Preferred
or Series C Preferred, (ii) effect any Liquidation (as defined in Section
3(c)), (iii) issue equity securities other than Junior Stock (or any
securities convertible into or exchangeable for such equity securities
including, without limitation, debt securities containing equity features),
(iv) increase the number of the Corporation's fully diluted equity
authorized for issuance to employees pursuant to any incentive stock or
other plan, whether currently in effect or subsequently created, (v) effect
the buyback or repurchase of Common Stock to the Corporation (except for
buybacks from directors or employees under the equity incentive plan), (vi)
increase the authorized size of the Board of Directors to more than five
(5) members, (vii) pay a dividend on the Series B Preferred or Series C
Preferred in other than cash, or (viii) increase the Corporation's debt
financing beyond the amounts permitted in the Stockholders and Voting
Agreement currently in effect. In addition, prior to taking any of the
foregoing actions, the Corporation shall obtain the consent of the holders
of the Series B Preferred in the manner and to the extent required by the
Statement Respecting Rights for the Series B Preferred.

3.       LIQUIDATION RIGHTS.

         (a) LIQUIDATION AMOUNT. Upon any Liquidation (as defined below),
whether voluntary or involuntary, before any distribution or payment shall
be made to the holders of any Junior Stock, the holders of Series C
Preferred shall be entitled to be paid out of the assets of the Corporation
an amount with respect to each share of Series C Preferred equal to the sum
of (i) the Liquidation Value subject to appropriate adjustment to reflect
any stock dividend, stock split, combination or any other similar
reclassification, reorganization or recapitalization affecting the shares
of Series C Preferred plus (ii) all accumulated but unpaid dividends
thereon (the "SERIES C LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE"). Notwithstanding the
foregoing, upon any Liquidation, the holders of the Series C Preferred can
convert the Series C Preferred to Common Stock.

         (b) PARTICIPATION. Once the holders of Series C Preferred have
received payment of the Series C Liquidation Preference, the holders of the
Series C Preferred shall participate in any additional distributions
proportionately with the Common Stock as if such Series C Preferred was
converted into Common Stock on or prior to the Liquidation.

         (c) LIQUIDATION EVENTS. At the option of the Required Holders, the
following events shall be considered a "LIQUIDATION" for purposes of
Section 3(a):

                  (i) the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the
Corporation;

                  (ii) any merger, acquisition, sale of voting control,
consolidation, business combination, reorganization or recapitalization of
the Corporation (whether accomplished in a single transaction or a series
of related transactions) in which the stockholders of the Corporation
immediately prior to such transaction own capital stock representing less
than 50% of the Corporation's voting power immediately after such
transaction (an "ACQUISITION"); or

                  (iii) a sale, lease or other disposition of all or
substantially all of the assets of the Corporation (an "ASSET TRANSFER").

         (d) VALUATION. In any of the events deemed to be a Liquidation, if
the consideration received by the Corporation is other than cash, its value
will be deemed to be its fair market value as determined in good faith by
the Board of Directors. Any securities shall be valued as follows:

                  (i) securities not subject to investment letter or other
similar restrictions on free marketability covered by (ii) below:

                                    (A) if traded on a securities exchange
                  or through the Nasdaq National Market, the value shall be
                  deemed to be the average of the closing prices of the
                  securities on such quotation system over the thirty (30)
                  day period ending three (3) days prior to the closing;

                                    (B) if actively traded
                  over-the-counter, the value shall be deemed to be the
                  average of the closing bid or sale prices (whichever is
                  applicable) over the thirty (30) day period ending three
                  (3) days prior to the closing; and,

                                    (C) if there is no active public
                  market, the value shall be the fair market value thereof,
                  as determined by the Board of Directors.

                  (ii) the method of valuation of securities subject to
investment letter or other restrictions on free marketability (other than
restrictions arising solely by virtue of a stockholder's status as an
affiliate or former affiliate) may be to make an appropriate discount from
the market value determined as above in (i)(A), (B) or (C) to reflect the
approximate fair market value thereof, as determined by the Board of
Directors.

         (e) PROPORTIONATE PAYMENTS. The Series B Preferred and the Series
C Preferred shall have pari passu liquidation rights and neither series
shall have liquidation preferences over the other. If, upon any
Liquidation, the assets of the Corporation shall be insufficient to make
payment in full to all holders of Series C Preferred and the Series B
Preferred, then such assets shall be distributed among the holders of
Series C Preferred and the Series B Preferred at the time outstanding
ratably in proportion to the full amounts to which they would otherwise
respectively be entitled.

4.       CONVERSION RIGHTS.

         The holders of the Series C Preferred shall have the following
rights with respect to the conversion of the Series C Preferred into shares
of Common Stock:

         (a) OPTIONAL CONVERSION. Subject to and in compliance with the
provisions of this Section 4, any shares of Series C Preferred may, at the
option of the holder, be converted at any time into fully-paid and
nonassessable shares of Common Stock. The number of shares of Common Stock
to which a holder of Series C Preferred shall be entitled upon conversion
shall be the product obtained by multiplying the "Series C Conversion Rate"
then in effect (determined as provided in Section 4(c)) by the number of
shares of Series C Preferred being converted.

         (b) AUTOMATIC CONVERSION. Each share of Series C Preferred shall
automatically be converted into shares of Common Stock, based on the
then-effective Series C Conversion Price, at any time upon the earliest of
(i) the conversion by Kennecott Energy Company of all of the outstanding
Series B Preferred owned by it, and (ii) immediately prior to a Qualified
IPO. Upon such automatic conversion, all accrued but unpaid dividends, if
any, shall be paid in accordance with Section 4(e)(ii).

         (c) SERIES C PREFERRED CONVERSION RATE. The conversion rate in
effect at any time for conversion of the Series C Preferred (the "SERIES C
CONVERSION RATE") shall be the quotient obtained by dividing the Original
Issue Price by the "Series C Conversion Price" calculated as provided in
Section 4(d).

         (d) CONVERSION PRICE. The conversion price for the Series C
Preferred (the "SERIES C CONVERSION PRICE") shall initially be the Average
Series B Issue Price, as such amount may vary from time to time. Such
initial Series C Conversion Price shall be adjusted from time to time in
accordance with this Section 4. All references to the Series C Conversion
Price herein shall mean the Series C Conversion Price as so adjusted.

         (e) MECHANICS OF CONVERSION.

                  (i) OPTIONAL CONVERSION. Each holder of Series C
Preferred who desires to convert the same into shares of Common Stock
pursuant to this Section 4 shall surrender the certificate or certificates
therefor, duly endorsed, at the office of the Corporation or any transfer
agent for the Series C Preferred, and shall give written notice to the
Corporation at such office that such holder elects to convert the same.
Such notice shall state the number of shares of Series C Preferred being
converted. Thereupon, the Corporation shall promptly issue and deliver at
such office to such holder a certificate or certificates for the number of
shares of Common Stock to which such holder is entitled and shall promptly
pay (A) in cash or, to the extent sufficient funds are not then legally
available therefor, in Common Stock (at the Common Stock's fair market
value determined by the Board of Directors as of the date of such
conversion), the Accrued Series A Preference and any accrued but unpaid
dividends and any declared but unpaid dividends on the shares of Series C
Preferred being converted, and (B) in cash (at the Common Stock's fair
market value determined by the Board of Directors as of the date of
conversion) the value of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise
issuable to any holder of Series C Preferred. Such conversion shall be
deemed to have been made at the close of business on the date of such
surrender of the certificates representing the shares of Series C Preferred
to be converted, and the person entitled to receive the shares of Common
Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as
the record holder of such shares of Common Stock on such date.

                  (ii) AUTOMATIC CONVERSION. Upon the occurrence of an
event specified in Section 4(b) above, the outstanding shares of Series C
Preferred shall be converted into Common Stock automatically without any
further action by the holders of such shares and whether or not the
certificates representing such shares are surrendered to the Corporation or
its transfer agent; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not be
obligated to issue certificates evidencing the shares of Common Stock
issuable upon such conversion unless the certificates evidencing such
shares of Series C Preferred are either delivered to the Corporation or its
transfer agent as provided below, or the holder notifies the Corporation or
its transfer agent that such certificates have been lost, stolen or
destroyed and executes an agreement reasonably satisfactory to the
Corporation to indemnify the Corporation from any loss incurred by it in
connection with such certificates. Upon surrender by any holder of the
certificates formerly representing shares of Series C Preferred at the
office of the Corporation or any transfer agent for the Series C Preferred,
there shall be issued and delivered to such holder promptly at such office
and in its name as shown on such surrendered certificate or certificates, a
certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock into
which the shares of Series C Preferred surrendered were convertible on the
date on which such automatic conversion occurred, and the Corporation shall
promptly pay in cash (unless otherwise agreed by the holders of the Series
C Preferred), all accrued but unpaid dividends on the shares of Series C
Preferred converted. Until surrendered as provided above, each certificate
formerly representing shares of Series C Preferred shall be deemed for all
corporate purposes to represent the number of shares of Common Stock
resulting from such automatic conversion.

         (f) ADJUSTMENT FOR STOCK SPLITS AND COMBINATIONS. If the
Corporation shall at any time or from time to time after the date that the
first share of Series C Preferred is issued (the "ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE")
effect a subdivision of the outstanding Common Stock without a
corresponding subdivision of the Series C Preferred, the Series C
Conversion Price in effect immediately before that subdivision shall be
proportionately decreased. Conversely, if the Corporation shall at any time
or from time to time after the Original Issue Date combine the outstanding
shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares without a
corresponding combination of the Series C Preferred, the Series C
Conversion Price in effect immediately before the combination shall be
proportionately increased. Any adjustment under this subsection (f) shall
become effective at the close of business on the date the subdivision or
combination becomes effective.

         (g) ADJUSTMENT FOR COMMON STOCK DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS. If
the Corporation at any time or from time to time after the Original Issue
Date makes, or fixes a record date for the determination of holders of
Common Stock entitled to receive, a dividend or other distribution payable
in additional shares of Common Stock, in each such event the Series C
Conversion Price that is then in effect shall be decreased as of the time
of such issuance or, in the event such record date is fixed, as of the
close of business on such record date, by multiplying the Series C
Conversion Price then in effect by a fraction (1) the numerator of which is
the total number of shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding
immediately prior to the time of such issuance or the close of business on
such record date, and (2) the denominator of which is the total number of
shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the time
of such issuance or the close of business on such record date plus the
number of shares of Common Stock issuable in payment of such dividend or
distribution; provided, however, that if such record date is fixed and such
dividend is not fully paid or if such distribution is not fully made on the
date fixed therefor, the Series C Conversion Price shall be recomputed
accordingly as of the close of business on such record date and thereafter
the Series C Conversion Price shall be adjusted pursuant to this subsection
(g) to reflect the actual payment of such dividend or distribution;
provided, further, however, that no such adjustment shall be made if, with
the consent of the holders of the Series C Preferred the holders of Series
C Preferred simultaneously receive (i) a dividend or other distribution of
shares of Common Stock in a number equal to the number of shares of Common
Stock they would have received if all outstanding shares of Series C
Preferred had been converted into Common Stock on the date of such event or
(ii) a dividend or other distribution of shares of Series C Preferred, as
of the date of such event, convertible into such number of shares of Common
Stock as is equal to the number of additional shares of Common Stock being
issued with respect to each share of Common Stock in such dividend or
distribution.

         (h) ADJUSTMENTS FOR OTHER DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS. If the
Corporation at any time or from time to time after the Original Issue Date
makes, or fixes a record date for the determination of holders of Common
Stock entitled to receive, a dividend or other distribution payable in
securities of the Corporation other than shares of Common Stock, in each
such event provision shall be made so that the holders of the Series C
Preferred shall receive upon conversion thereof, in addition to the number
of shares of Common Stock receivable thereupon, the amount of other
securities of the Corporation which they would have received had their
Series C Preferred been converted into Common Stock on the date of such
event and had they thereafter during the period from the date of such event
to and including the conversion date, retained such securities receivable
by them as aforesaid during such period, subject to all other adjustments
called for during such period under this Section 4 with respect to the
rights of the holders of the Series C Preferred or with respect to such
other securities by their terms; provided, further, however, that no such
adjustment shall be made if the holders of Series C Preferred
simultaneously receive a dividend or other distribution of such securities
in an amount equal to the amount of such securities as they would have
received if all outstanding shares of Series C Preferred had been converted
into Common Stock on the date of such event.

         (i) ADJUSTMENT FOR RECLASSIFICATION, EXCHANGE AND SUBSTITUTION. If
at any time or from time to time after the Original Issue Date, the Common
Stock issuable upon the conversion of the Series C Preferred is changed
into the same or a different number of shares of any class or classes of
stock, whether by recapitalization, reclassification or otherwise (other
than a Liquidation or a subdivision or combination of shares or stock
dividend provided for elsewhere in this Section 4), each holder of Series C
Preferred shall have the right thereafter to convert the Series C Preferred
into the kind and amount of stock and other securities and property
receivable upon such recapitalization, reclassification or other change by
holders of the maximum number of shares of Common Stock into which such
shares of Series C Preferred could have been converted immediately prior to
such recapitalization, reclassification or change, all subject to further
adjustment as provided herein or with respect to such other securities or
property by the terms thereof.

         (j) REORGANIZATIONS, ACQUISITIONS OR ASSET TRANSFERS. If at any
time or from time to time after the Original Issue Date, there is a capital
reorganization of the Common Stock, an Acquisition or Asset Transfer (other
than a recapitalization, subdivision, combination, reclassification, or
stock dividend of shares provided for elsewhere in this Section 4),
provision shall be made so that the holders of the Series C Preferred shall
thereafter be entitled to receive upon conversion of the Series C Preferred
the number of shares of stock or other securities or property of the
Corporation to which a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock
deliverable upon conversion would have been entitled on such capital
reorganization, Acquisition or Asset Transfer subject to adjustment in
respect of such stock or securities by the terms thereof. In any such case,
appropriate adjustment shall be made in the application of the provisions
of this Section 4 with respect to the rights of the holders of Series C
Preferred after the capital reorganization, Acquisition or Asset Transfer
to the end that the provisions of this Section 4 (including adjustment of
the Series C Conversion Price then in effect and the number of shares
issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred) shall be applicable
after that event and be as nearly equivalent as practicable.

         (k) SALE OF SHARES BELOW SERIES C CONVERSION PRICE.

                  (i) If at any time or from time to time after the
Original Issue Date, the Corporation issues or sells, or is deemed by the
express provisions of this subsection (k) to have issued or sold,
Additional Shares of Common Stock (as hereinafter defined), other than as a
dividend or other distribution on any class of stock as provided in Section
4(g) above, and other than a subdivision or combination of shares of Common
Stock as provided in Section 4(f) above, for an Effective Price (as
hereinafter defined) that is less than the then-effective Series C
Conversion Price, then and in each such case the then-existing Series C
Conversion Price shall be reduced, as of the opening of business on the
date of such issue or sale, to a price determined by multiplying the Series
C Conversion Price by a fraction (A) the numerator of which shall be (x)
the number of shares of Common Stock Deemed Outstanding (as defined below)
immediately prior to such issue or sale, plus (y) the number of shares of
Common Stock which the aggregate consideration received (as determined by
paragraph (ii) of this subsection (k)) by the Corporation for the total
number of Additional Shares of Common Stock so issued would purchase at
such Series C Conversion Price, and (B) the denominator of which shall be
the number of shares of Common Stock Deemed Outstanding (as defined below)
immediately prior to such issue or sale plus the total number of Additional
Shares of Common Stock so issued.

                  (ii) For purposes of making any adjustment required under
this subsection (k), the consideration received by the Corporation for any
issue or sale of securities shall (A) to the extent it consists of cash, be
computed at the net amount of cash received by the Corporation after
deduction of any underwriting or similar commissions, compensation or
concessions paid or allowed by the Corporation in connection with such
issue or sale but without deduction of any expenses payable by the
Corporation, (B) to the extent it consists of property other than cash, be
computed at the fair value of that property as determined in good faith by
the Board of Directors, and (C) if Additional Shares of Common Stock,
Convertible Securities (as hereinafter defined) or rights or options to
purchase either Additional Shares of Common Stock or Convertible Securities
are issued or sold together with other stock or securities or other assets
of the Corporation for a consideration which covers both, be computed as
the portion of the consideration so received that may be reasonably
determined in good faith by the Board of Directors to be allocable to such
Additional Shares of Common Stock, Convertible Securities or rights or
options.

                  (iii) For purposes of the adjustment required under this
subsection (k), if the Corporation issues or sells any rights or options
for the purchase of, stock or other securities convertible into, Additional
Shares of Common Stock (such convertible stock or securities being herein
referred to as "CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES") and if the Effective Price of such
Additional Shares of Common Stock is less than the Series C Conversion
Price, in each case the Corporation shall be deemed to have issued at the
time of the issuance of such rights or options or Convertible Securities
the maximum number of Additional Shares of Common Stock issuable upon
exercise or conversion thereof and to have received as consideration for
the issuance of such shares an amount equal to the total amount of the
consideration, if any, received by the Corporation for the issuance of such
rights or options or Convertible Securities, plus, in the case of such
rights or options, the minimum amounts of consideration, if any, payable to
the Corporation upon the exercise of such rights or options, plus, in the
case of Convertible Securities, the minimum amounts of consideration, if
any, payable to the Corporation (other than by cancellation of liabilities
or obligations evidenced by such Convertible Securities) upon the
conversion thereof; provided, that if in the case of Convertible Securities
the minimum amounts of such consideration cannot be ascertained, but are a
function of anti-dilution or similar protective clauses, the Corporation
shall be deemed to have received the minimum amounts of consideration
without reference to such clauses; provided further that if the minimum
amount of consideration payable to the Corporation upon the exercise or
conversion of rights, options or Convertible Securities is reduced over
time or on the occurrence or nonoccurrence of specified events other than
by reason of antidilution adjustments, the Effective Price shall be
recalculated using the figure to which such minimum amount of consideration
is reduced; provided further that if the minimum amount of consideration
payable to the Corporation upon the exercise or conversion of such rights,
options or Convertible Securities is subsequently increased, the Effective
Price shall be again recalculated using the increased minimum amount of
consideration payable to the Corporation upon the exercise or conversion of
such rights, options or Convertible Securities. No further adjustment of
the Series C Conversion Price, as adjusted upon the issuance of such
rights, options or Convertible Securities, shall be made as a result of the
actual issuance of Additional Shares of Common Stock on the exercise of any
such rights or options or the conversion of any such Convertible
Securities. If any such rights or options or the conversion privilege
represented by any such Convertible Securities shall expire without having
been exercised, the Series C Conversion Price as adjusted upon the issuance
of such rights, options or Convertible Securities shall be readjusted to
the Series C Conversion Price which would have been in effect had an
adjustment been made on the basis that the only Additional Shares of Common
Stock so issued were the Additional Shares of Common Stock, if any,
actually issued or sold on the exercise of such rights or options or rights
of conversion of such Convertible Securities, and such Additional Shares of
Common Stock, if any, were issued or sold for the consideration actually
received by the Corporation upon the exercise, plus the consideration, if
any, actually received by the Corporation for the granting of all such
rights or options, whether or not exercised, plus the consideration
received for issuing or selling the Convertible Securities actually
converted, plus the consideration, if any, actually received by the
Corporation (other than by cancellation of liabilities or obligations
evidenced by such Convertible Securities) on the conversion of such
Convertible Securities, provided that such readjustment shall not apply to
prior conversions of Series C Preferred.

                  (iv) "ADDITIONAL SHARES OF COMMON STOCK" shall mean all
shares of Common Stock issued by the Corporation or deemed to be issued
pursuant to this subsection (k), other than (A) shares of Common Stock
issued or issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred or the Series
B Preferred; (B) the Reserved Employee Stock; (C) shares of Common Stock
issued in any merger, Acquisition, strategic transaction, or equipment
leasing or debt financing, any of which must have been unanimously approved
by the members of the Board; (D) shares of Common Stock issued or issuable
by reason of a dividend, stock split or other distribution on shares of
Common Stock that is covered by Section 4(f), or Section 4(g); or (E)
shares of Common Stock issued or issuable as a dividend or distribution on
the Series C Preferred or the Series B Preferred. The "EFFECTIVE PRICE" of
Additional Shares of Common Stock shall mean the quotient determined by
dividing the total number of Additional Shares of Common Stock issued or
sold, or deemed to have been issued or sold by the Corporation under this
subsection (k), into the aggregate consideration received, or deemed to
have been received by the Corporation for such issue under this subsection
(k), for such Additional Shares of Common Stock.

         (l) CERTIFICATE OF ADJUSTMENT. In each case of an adjustment or
readjustment of the Series C Conversion Price, the Corporation, at its
expense, shall compute such adjustment or readjustment in accordance with
the provisions hereof and prepare a certificate showing such adjustment or
readjustment, and shall mail such certificate, by first class mail, postage
prepaid, to each registered holder of Series C Preferred at the holder's
address as shown in the Corporation's books. The certificate shall set
forth such adjustment or readjustment, showing in detail the facts upon
which such adjustment or readjustment is based, including a statement of
(A) the Series C Conversion Price at the time in effect, and (B) the type
and amount, if any, of other property which at the time would be received
upon conversion of the Series C Preferred.

         (m) NOTICES OF RECORD DATE. Upon (i) any taking by the Corporation
of a record of the holders of any class of securities for the purpose of
determining the holders thereof who are entitled to receive any dividend or
other distribution, or (ii) any Liquidation or other capital reorganization
of the Corporation, any reclassification or recapitalization of the capital
stock of the Corporation, or any merger or consolidation of the Corporation
with or into any other corporation, the Corporation shall mail to each
holder of Series C Preferred at least ten (10) days prior to the record
date specified therein a notice specifying (A) the date on which any such
record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend or distribution and
a description of such dividend or distribution, (B) the date on which any
such Liquidation, reorganization, reclassification, transfer,
consolidation, merger, is expected to become effective, and (C) the date,
if any, that is to be fixed as to when the holders of record of Common
Stock (or other securities) shall be entitled to exchange their shares of
Common Stock (or other securities) for securities or other property
deliverable upon such Liquidation, reorganization, reclassification,
transfer, consolidation, or merger.

         (n) FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional shares of Common Stock shall
be issued upon conversion of Series C Preferred. All shares of Common Stock
(including fractions thereof) issuable upon conversion of more than one
share of Series C Preferred by a holder thereof shall be aggregated for
purposes of determining whether the conversion would result in the issuance
of any fractional share. If, after the aforementioned aggregation, the
conversion would result in the issuance of any fractional share, the
Corporation shall, in lieu of issuing any fractional share, pay cash equal
to the product of such fraction multiplied by the Common Stock's fair
market value (as determined by the Board) on the date of conversion.

         (o) RESERVATION OF STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION. The Corporation
shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized but
unissued shares of Common Stock solely for the purpose of effecting the
conversion of the shares of the Series C Preferred, such number of its
shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect
the conversion of all outstanding shares of the Series C Preferred. If at
any time the number of authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock shall
not be sufficient to effect the conversion of all then outstanding shares
of the Series C Preferred, the Corporation will take such corporate action
as may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary to increase its
authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock to such number of shares as
shall be sufficient for such purpose.

         (p) ADJUSTMENTS AFFECTING ADVERSE SERIES B ISSUE PRICE. The
Average Series B Issue Price shall be recomputed at the time of each
issuance of shares of Series B Preferred. Any adjustments contemplated by
this Section 4 which have been made since the Original Issue Date shall be
applied to such recomputed Average Series B Issue Price as if such amount
was the initial Series C Conversion Price contemplated by Section 4(d).

5.       CERTAIN DEFINITIONS.

         "ACCRUED SERIES A PREFERENCE" shall mean $0.0712 per share.

         "ACQUISITION" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(c)(ii).

         "ASSET TRANSFER" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(c)(iii).

         "AVERAGE SERIES B ISSUE PRICE" means, as of any given date, the
price determined by dividing the aggregate proceeds received by the
Corporation from the issuance of shares of Series B Preferred (regardless
of class) by the number of then issued and outstanding shares of Series B
Preferred.

         "COMMON STOCK DEEMED OUTSTANDING" means, as of a given date, the
sum of the number of shares of Common Stock actually outstanding, plus the
number of shares of Common Stock into which the then-outstanding shares of
Series B Preferred and Series C Preferred could be converted if fully
converted on the day immediately preceding the given date plus the number
of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion or exercise of all other
rights, options and convertible securities which were convertible or
exercisable on the day immediately preceding the given date.

         "CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES" has the meaning set forth in Section
4(k)(iii).

         "JUNIOR STOCK" has the meaning set forth in Section 1(a).

         "LIQUIDATION" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(c).

         "LIQUIDATION VALUE" of the Series C Preferred shall be an amount
equal to the sum of (i) the Accrued Series A Preference and (ii) the
Original Issue Price.

         "ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(f).

         "ORIGINAL ISSUE PRICE" of the Series C Preferred shall be $1.2972
per share.

         "QUALIFIED IPO" shall mean the closing of a firm commitment
underwritten public offering of Common Stock with aggregate gross proceeds
of at least $20 million and a per share price of at least $10.00.

         "REQUIRED HOLDERS" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(b).

         "RESERVED EMPLOYEE STOCK" means up to 1,211,605 of the
Corporation's outstanding shares of Common Stock on a fully diluted basis
issuable to employees, officers, directors or consultants of the
Corporation pursuant to the Corporation's 1999 Stock Incentive Plan.

         "SERIES B PREFERRED" means the shares of Series B Preferred issued
pursuant to that Statement Respecting Rights of Series B Preferred Stock of
the Corporation.

         "SERIES C CONVERSION PRICE" has the meaning set forth in Section
4(d).

         "SERIES C CONVERSION RATE" has the meaning set forth in Section
4(c).

         "SERIES C LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE" has the meaning set forth in
Section 3(a).

         "SERIES C PREFERRED" has the meaning set forth in the introductory
paragraph hereof.

         "SUBSIDIARY" means any corporation of which the shares of
outstanding capital stock possessing the voting power (under ordinary
circumstances) in electing the board of directors are, at the time as of
which any determination is being made, owned by the Corporation either
directly or indirectly through Subsidiaries.

6.       AMENDMENT AND WAIVER.

         No amendment, modification or waiver of any of the terms or
provisions of the Series C Preferred shall be binding or effective without
the prior written consent of the Required Holders and no change in the
terms hereof may be accomplished by merger or consolidation of the
Corporation with another corporation or entity unless the Corporation has
obtained the prior written consent of the Required Holders.

7.       GENERAL PROVISIONS.

         (a) REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER. The Corporation shall keep at its
principal office a register for the registration of the Series C Preferred.
Upon the surrender of any certificate representing Series C Preferred at
such place, the Corporation shall, at the request of the record holder of
such certificate, execute and deliver (at the Corporation's expense) a new
certificate or certificates in exchange therefor representing in the
aggregate the number of shares represented by the surrendered certificate.
Each such new certificate shall be registered in such name and shall
represent such number of shares as is requested by the holder of the
surrendered certificate and shall be substantially identical in form to the
surrendered certificate.

         (b) REPLACEMENT. Upon receipt of evidence reasonably satisfactory
to the Corporation (an affidavit of the registered holder shall be
satisfactory) of the ownership and the loss, theft, destruction or
mutilation of any certificate evidencing shares of Series C Preferred, and
in the case of any such loss, theft or destruction, upon receipt of
indemnity reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation (provided that if the
holder is a financial institution or other institutional investor its own
agreement shall be satisfactory), or in the case of any such mutilation
upon surrender of such certificate, the Corporation shall (at its expense)
execute and deliver in lieu of such certificate a new certificate of like
kind representing the number of shares of such class represented by such
lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated certificate and dated the date of such
lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated certificate.

         (c) NOTICES. Any notice required by the provisions of this
Certificate of Designation shall be in writing and shall be deemed
effectively given: (i) upon personal delivery to the party to be notified,
(ii) when sent by confirmed telex or facsimile if sent during normal
business hours of the recipient; if not, then on the next business day,
(iii) five days after having been sent by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or (iv) one day after deposit
with a nationally recognized overnight courier, specifying next day
delivery, with written verification of receipt. All notices to stockholders
shall be addressed to each holder of record at the address of such holder
appearing on the books of the Corporation.

         (d) PAYMENT OF TAXES. The Corporation shall pay all taxes (other
than taxes based upon income) and other governmental charges that may be
imposed with respect to the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock
upon conversion of shares of Series C Preferred, excluding any tax or other
charge imposed in connection with any transfer involved in the issue and
delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that in which the
shares of Series C Preferred so converted were registered.

         (e) NO DILUTION OR IMPAIRMENT. The Corporation shall not amend its
Certificate of Incorporation or participate in any reorganization, transfer
of assets, consolidation, merger, dissolution, issue or sale of securities
or any other voluntary action, for the purpose of avoiding or seeking to
avoid the observance or performance of any of the terms to be observed or
performed hereunder by the Corporation.

         (f) NO REISSUANCE OF SERIES C PREFERRED. No share or shares of
Series C Preferred acquired by the Corporation by reason of redemption,
purchase, conversion or otherwise shall be reissued.




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>0004.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.9 - WARRANTS TO PURCHASE
<TEXT>



                                  KFX INC.


              1,000,000 WARRANTS EACH TO PURCHASE ONE SHARE OF
                          COMMON STOCK OF KFX INC.

                            WARRANTS TO PURCHASE
                              1,000,000 SHARES


                  THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT
         BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE
         "ACT"), OR ANY OF THE LAWS OF ANY STATE AND HAVE BEEN ISSUED
         PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT. THE
         SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE OFFERED,
         SOLD OR TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IF (A) COVERED BY AN EFFECTIVE
         REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE ACT AND REGISTERED OR QUALIFIED
         UNDER APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS, OR (B) THE CORPORATION HAS
         BEEN FURNISHED WITH AN OPINION OF COUNSEL REASONABLY ACCEPTABLE TO
         THE CORPORATION TO THE EFFECT THAT NO REGISTRATION OR
         QUALIFICATION IS LEGALLY REQUIRED FOR SUCH TRANSFER.

         FOR VALUE RECEIVED, KFX INC., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), hereby certifies that Evergreen Resources, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, or its registered assigns as permitted herein (the "Holder")
is entitled, subject to the provisions of this Warrant Certificate, to
purchase from the Company, at the times specified herein, 1,000,000 fully
paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock of the Company, par value
$.001 per share (the "Common Stock"), at a purchase price per share equal
to the Exercise Price (as hereinafter defined) (the "Warrants"). The number
of shares of Common Stock to be received upon the exercise of the Warrants
are subject to adjustment from time to time as hereinafter set forth.

                                 ARTICLE I

                                DEFINITIONS

         The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:

         "Act" means the Securities Act of 1933.

         "Board" means the board of directors of the Company.

         "Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other
day on which commercial banks in the City of New York are authorized by law
to close.

         "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.

         "Common Stock" means the Company's common stock, $.001 par value
per share.

         "Exercise Price" means $3.65 per Warrant Share, such Exercise
Price to be adjusted from time to time as provided herein.

         "Expiration Date" means the earlier of (i) 5:00 p.m. Denver,
Colorado time on February 8, 2006, and (ii) the date of its exercise in
full.

         "Person" means an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a
limited liability company, a trust, a joint venture, an unincorporated
organization and a government or any department or agency thereof.

         "Warrant Shares" means the shares of Common Stock deliverable upon
exercise of the Warrants, as the number of such shares shall be adjusted
from time to time as provided herein, provided that if there is a change
such that the securities issuable upon exercise of the Warrants are issued
by an entity other than the Company or there is a change in the class of
securities so issuable, then the term "Warrant Shares" will mean the shares
of the security issuable upon exercise of the Warrants if such security is
issuable in shares, or will mean the smallest units in which such security
is issuable if such security is not issuable in shares.

                                 ARTICLE II

         Section 2.01.     EXERCISE OF WARRANTS.

         (1) The Holder is entitled to exercise the Warrants in whole or in
part at any time, or from time to time, until the Expiration Date or, if
such day is not a Business Day, then on the next succeeding day that shall
be a Business Day. To exercise the Warrants, the Holder shall execute and
deliver to the Company a Warrant Exercise Notice substantially in the form
annexed hereto, together with this Warrant Certificate and the payment of
the applicable Exercise Price. Upon such delivery and payment, the Holder
shall be deemed to be the holder of record of the Warrant Shares subject to
such exercise, notwithstanding that the stock transfer books of the Company
shall then be closed or that certificates representing such Warrant Shares
shall not then be actually delivered to the Holder.

         (2) The Exercise Price may be paid in cash or by certified or
official bank check or bank cashier's check payable to the order of the
Company or by any combination of such checks. In addition, the Holder of
this Warrant may exercise this Warrant by surrendering it to the Company to
purchase a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of such
shares then purchasable upon exercise hereof less the number of such shares
equal to the quotient of the aggregate Exercise Price of all such shares
underlying this Warrant divided by the Fair Market Price per Share. Fair
Market Price per Share shall mean the average of the closing sales prices,
if available, or the average of the bid and asked prices for the Common
Stock (or its successor), on the principal market therefor for the five
trading days preceding the day which is one business day prior to the day
of exercise, or if no such price is available, as determined by the Board.
The Company shall pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or
transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of the Warrant
Shares.

         (3) If the Holder exercises the Warrants in part, this Warrant
Certificate shall be surrendered by the Holder to the Company and a new
Warrant Certificate of the same tenor and for the unexercised number of
Warrant Shares shall be executed by the Company. The Company shall register
the new Warrant Certificate in the name of the Holder or in such name or
names of its transferees as may be directed in writing by the Holder and
deliver the new Warrant Certificate to the Person or Persons entitled to
receive the same.

         (4) Upon surrender of this Warrant Certificate in conformity with
the foregoing provisions, the Company shall transfer to the Holder of this
Warrant Certificate appropriate evidence of ownership of the shares of
Common Stock or other securities or property (including any money) to which
the Holder is entitled, registered or otherwise placed in, or payable to
the order of, the name or names of the Holder or such transferee as may be
directed in writing by the Holder, and shall deliver such evidence of
ownership and any other securities or property (including any money) to the
Person or Persons entitled to receive the same, together with the amount in
cash in lieu of any fraction of a share as provided in Section 2.03 below.

         Section 2.02. RESTRICTIVE LEGEND. Certificates representing shares
of Common Stock issued pursuant to the Warrants shall bear a legend
substantially in the form of the legend set forth on the first page of this
Warrant Certificate.

         Section 2.03. FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional shares or scrip
representing fractional shares shall be issued upon the exercise of the
Warrants and in lieu of delivery of any such fractional share upon any
exercise hereof, the Company shall pay to the Holder an amount in cash
equal to such fraction multiplied by the then current market price per
share of Common Stock.

         Section 2.04. LOSS OR DESTRUCTION OF WARRANT. Upon receipt by the
Company of evidence satisfactory to it (in the exercise of its reasonable
discretion) of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of this Warrant
Certificate, and (in the case of loss, theft or destruction) of reasonably
satisfactory indemnification, and upon surrender and cancellation of this
Warrant Certificate, if mutilated, the Company shall execute and deliver a
new Warrant Certificate of like tenor and date.

         Section 2.05. FORFEITURE. Except as otherwise provided in this
Warrant, the Warrants may be exercised at any time through the close of
business on February 8, 2006.

         Section 2.06. EFFECT OF REORGANIZATION, RECLASSIFICATION,
CONSOLIDATION, MERGER OR SALE. If at any time while this Warrant is
outstanding there shall be any reorganization or reclassification of the
capital stock of the Company (other than a stock split, stock dividend or
other subdivision or combination of shares) or any consolidation or merger
of the Company with another corporation (other than a consolidation or
merger in which the Company is the surviving entity and which does not
result in any change in the Common Stock), or any sale or other disposition
by the Company of all or substantially all of its assets to any other
corporation, the Holder shall thereafter upon exercise of this Warrant be
entitled to receive the number of shares of stock or other securities or
property of the Company, or of the successor corporation resulting from
such consolidation or merger, as the case may be, to which the Warrant
Shares deliverable upon the exercise of this Warrant would have been
entitled upon such reorganization, reclassification of capital stock,
consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition if this Warrant had been
exercised immediately prior to such reorganization, reclassification of
capital stock, consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition. In any
such case, appropriate adjustment (as determined by the Board) shall be
made in the application of the provisions set forth in this Warrant with
respect to the rights and interests thereafter of the Holder to the end
that the provisions set forth in this Warrant (including those relating to
adjustments of the Exercise Price and the number of shares issuable upon
the exercise of this Warrant) shall thereafter be applicable, as near as
reasonably may be, in relation to any shares or other property thereafter
deliverable upon the exercise hereof as if this Warrant had been exercised
immediately prior to such reorganization, reclassification of capital
stock, consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition and the Holder
hereof had carried out the terms of the exchange as provided for by such
reorganization, reclassification of capital stock, consolidation or merger.

         Section 2.07. ADJUSTMENTS FOR STOCK EVENTS. If at any time there
shall occur any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split or other
subdivision or combination of the Company's Common Stock (a "Stock Event"),
then the number of shares of Common Stock to be received by the holder of
this Warrant shall be appropriately adjusted such that the proportion of
the number of shares issuable hereunder to the total number of shares of
the Company (on a fully diluted basis) prior to such Stock Event is equal
to the proportion of the number of shares issuable hereunder after such
Stock Event to the total number of shares of the Company (on a
fully-diluted basis) after such Stock Event. No adjustment to the Exercise
Price shall be made in connection with any adjustment of the number of
shares of Common Stock receivable upon exercise of this Warrant, except
that the Exercise Price shall be proportionately decreased or increased
upon the occurrence of any Stock Event; however, in no event shall the
Exercise Price be less than the par value of the Common Stock.

         Section 2.08. RESERVATION OF COMMON STOCK. The Company will at all
times reserve and keep available for issuance upon the exercise of the
Warrant such number of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock
as will be sufficient to permit the exercise in full of the Warrant, and
when issued upon such exercise shall be validly issued, fully paid and
nonassessable.

                                ARTICLE III

                              NO VOTING RIGHTS

         Prior to the exercise of any Warrant, the Holder shall not, by
virtue hereof, be entitled to any rights as a stockholder of the Company,
including, without limitation, the right to vote, to receive dividends or
other distributions, to exercise any preemptive rights or to receive any
notice of meeting of stockholders or any notice of any proceedings of the
Company except as may be specifically provided for herein.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                         TRANSFER; REPRESENTATIONS

                  (a) Subject to the transfer conditions referred to in
         paragraph (b) below, this Warrant and all rights hereunder are
         transferable, in whole or in part, without charge to the Holder
         upon completion of the form of Assignment attached hereto as
         Exhibit B and surrender of this Warrant, together with such
         assignment, at the principal office of the Company.

                  (b) The Holder of this Warrant acknowledges and
         represents:

                           (i) that neither this Warrant nor the Warrant
                  Shares have been registered under the Act, or any state
                  securities law and agrees not to sell, pledge,
                  distribute, offer for sale, transfer or otherwise dispose
                  of this Warrant or any Warrant Shares issued upon its
                  exercise in the absence of (A) an effective registration
                  statement as to this Warrant or such Warrant Shares under
                  the Act (or any similar statute then in effect) or any
                  state securities law, or (B) an opinion of counsel for
                  the Company to the effect that such registration is not,
                  under the circumstances, required.

                           (ii) THE OFFER AND SALE OF THE SECURITIES
                  EVIDENCED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED
                  UNDER THE ACT, AND SUCH SECURITIES MAY NOT BE SOLD OR
                  TRANSFERRED UNLESS THERE IS AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION
                  STATEMENT UNDER SUCH ACT COVERING SUCH SALE OR TRANSFER
                  OR THE COMPANY RECEIVES AN OPINION OF COUNSEL (WHICH MAY
                  BE COUNSEL FOR THE COMPANY) STATING THAT SUCH SALE OR
                  TRANSFER IS EXEMPT FROM THE REGISTRATION AND PROSPECTUS
                  DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS OF SUCH ACT.

                           (iii) The Holder is acquiring this Warrant and
                  the Warrant Shares for its own account for investment and
                  not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any
                  distribution thereof; nor with any present intention of
                  distributing or selling the same.

                           (iv) The Holder has made detailed inquiry
                  concerning the Company, its business and its personnel;
                  the officers of the Company have made available to the
                  Holder any and all written information which it has
                  requested and have answered to the Holder's satisfaction
                  all inquiries made by the Holder, and the Holder has
                  sufficient knowledge and experience in investing in
                  companies similar to the Company so as to be able to
                  evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the
                  Company and is able financially to bear the risks
                  thereof.

                  (c) The Holder understands that the Company proposes to
         issue and deliver this Warrant and the Warrant Shares to the
         Holder pursuant to this Agreement without compliance with the
         registration requirements of the Act; that for such purpose the
         Company will rely upon the representations, warranties, covenants
         and agreements contained herein; and that such non-compliance with
         registration is not permissible unless such representations and
         warranties are correct and such covenants and agreements
         performed. The Holder is an "accredited investor" as such term is
         defined in Rule 501 under the Act.

                  (d) The Holder understands that, under existing rules of
         the Commission, the Holder may be unable to sell this Warrant and
         the Warrant Shares except to the extent that this Warrant and the
         Warrant Shares may be sold (i) pursuant to an effective
         registration statement covering such securities pursuant to the
         Act or (ii) in a bona fide private placement to a purchaser who
         shall be subject to the same restrictions on any resale or (iii)
         subject to the restrictions contained in Rule 144 under the Act.

                  (e) The Holder (either alone or together with its
         advisors) has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and
         business matters so as to be capable of evaluating the merits and
         risks of its investment in this Warrant and the Warrant Shares and
         the Holder is capable of bearing the economic risks of such
         investment.

                                 ARTICLE V

                               NO IMPAIRMENT

         The Company will not, by amendment of its charter or through
reorganization, consolidation, merger, dissolution, sale of assets or any
other voluntary action, avoid or seek to avoid the observance or
performance of any of the terms of this Warrant, but will at all times in
good faith assist in the carrying out of all such terms and in the taking
of all such action as may be necessary or appropriate in order to protect
the rights of the Holder of this Warrant against impairment.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                           LIQUIDATING DIVIDENDS

         If the Company pays a dividend or makes a distribution on the
Common Stock payable otherwise than in cash out of earnings or earned
surplus (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles), except for a stock dividend payable in shares of Common Stock
(a "Liquidating Dividend"), then the Company will pay or distribute to the
holder of this Warrant, upon the exercise hereof, in addition to the
Warrant Shares purchased upon such exercise, the Liquidating Dividend which
would have been paid to such holder if he had been the owner of record of
such shares of Common Stock immediately prior to the date on which a record
is taken for such Liquidating Dividend or, if no record is taken, the date
as of which the record holders of Common Stock entitled to such dividend or
distribution are to be determined.

                                ARTICLE VII

                        NOTICES OF RECORD DATE, ETC.

         In case:

                  (a) the Company shall take a record of the holders of its
         Common Stock (or other stock or securities at the time deliverable
         upon the exercise of this Warrant) for the purpose of entitling or
         enabling them to receive any dividend or other distribution, or to
         receive any other right, or

                  (b) of any capital reorganization of the Company, any
         reclassification of the capital stock of the Company, any
         consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another
         corporation (other than a consolidation or merger in which the
         Company is the surviving entity), or any transfer of all or
         substantially all of the assets of the Company, or

                  (c) of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution,
         liquidation or winding-up of the Company, then, and in each such
         case, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed to the Holder of
         this Warrant a notice specifying as the case may be, (i) the date
         on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend,
         distribution or right, and stating the amount and character of
         such dividend, distribution or right, or (ii) the effective date
         on which such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation,
         merger, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up is to
         take place, and the time, if any is to be fixed, as of which the
         holders of record of Common Stock (or such other stock or
         securities at the time deliverable upon the exercise of this
         Warrant) shall be entitled to exchange their shares of Common
         Stock (or such other stock or securities) for securities or other
         property deliverable upon such reorganization, reclassification,
         consolidation, merger, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or
         winding-up. Such notice shall be given at least ten (10) days
         prior to the record date or effective date for the event specified
         in such notice.

                                ARTICLE VIII

                               MISCELLANEOUS

         Section 8.01. AMENDMENT AND WAIVER. The provisions of the Warrant
may be amended and the Company may take any action herein prohibited, or
omit to perform any act herein required to be performed by it upon the
written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding Warrants
exercisable for a majority of the Warrant Shares.

         Section 8.02. NOTICES. Any notices required to be sent to the
Holder will be delivered to the address of the Holder shown on the books of
the Company. All notices referred to herein will be delivered in person,
sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, or by recognized express courier
(such as Federal Express). Notice will be deemed to have been given upon
personal delivery, one business day after deposit with an express courier
or two business days after deposit in the mail.

         Section 8.03. DESCRIPTIVE HEADINGS; GOVERNING LAW. The descriptive
headings of the paragraphs of this Warrant are inserted for convenience
only and do not constitute a part of this Warrant. The construction,
validity and interpretation of this Warrant will be governed by the laws of
the State of Delaware.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Warrant to be
signed and sealed by its duly authorized officers under its corporate seal
this 9th day of February, 2001.

                                KFx Inc.


                                By:  /s/ Seth L. Patterson
                                   ------------------------------
                                Name:  Seth L. Patterson
                                Title: Executive Vice President and
                                       Chief Financial Officer




                                 EXHIBIT A

                          WARRANT EXERCISE NOTICE

            (To be executed only upon exercise of the Warrants)



To:      KFx Inc.

         The undersigned irrevocably exercises the Warrants for the
purchase of __________ shares (the "Shares") of Common Stock, par value
$.001 per share, of KFx Inc. (the "Company") and agrees to make payment
therefor [in the amount of $______________] [in accordance with the
cashless exercise provisions of Section 2.01(2) of the within Warrant
Certificate], all on the terms and conditions specified in the within
Warrant Certificate, surrenders this Warrant Certificate and all right,
title and interest therein to the Company and directs that the Shares
deliverable upon the exercise of the Warrants be registered or placed in
the name and at the address specified below and delivered thereto.

Dated: ___________________, 20__.




                             _________________________________________
                             (Signature of Owner)

                             _________________________________________
                             (Street Address)

                             _________________________________________
                             (City)        (State)          (Zip Code)


Securities and/or check to be issued to:


Please insert social security or identifying number:


Name:


Street Address:


City, State and Zip Code:


Any unexercised portion of the Warrants evidenced by the within Warrant
Certificate to be issued to:


Please insert social security or identifying number:


Name:


Street Address:


City, State and Zip Code






                                 EXHIBIT B

                                 ASSIGNMENT


         FOR VALUE RECEIVED, _______________ hereby sells, assigns and
transfers all of the rights of the undersigned under the within Warrant,
with respect to the number of shares of Common Stock covered thereby set
forth hereinbelow unto:

         Name of Assignee                   Address           No. of Shares of
                                                              Common Stock
         __________________________     _________________     ________________

                                        _________________

                                        _________________


Date:______________________________     Name        __________________________

                                        Signature   __________________________

                                        Witness     __________________________


         This Assignment must be completed and sent to:

                                    KFx Inc.
                                    3300 Feast First Avenue
                                    Suite 290
                                    Denver, CO 80206





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>0005.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.10 - REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
<TEXT>



                       REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT


         This Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and
entered into as of February 9, 2001 by and between KFx Inc., a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"), and Evergreen Resources, Inc., a Colorado
corporation, or its registered assigns ("Evergreen") as permitted in the
Warrant to purchase 1,000,000 shares of Common Stock of KFx Inc. dated the
date hereof (the "Warrant").

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises
hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                            REGISTRATION RIGHTS

         Section 1.1. DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Agreement:

                  (a) Common Shares. The term "Common Shares" means shares
         of Common Stock, $.001 par value, of the Company.

                  (b) Holder. The term "Holder" means any person owning of
         record Registrable Securities that have not been sold to the
         public or sold pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the
         Securities Act, or any assignee of record of such Registrable
         Securities to whom rights under this Agreement have been duly
         assigned in accordance with this Agreement and the Warrant.

                  (c) Registrable Securities or Registrable Shares. The
         terms "Registrable Securities" or "Registrable Shares" means (i)
         all Common Shares of the Company that may hereafter be acquired by
         Evergreen pursuant to the exercise of the Warrant or any warrant
         that is issued by the Company to Evergreen as a replacement for
         all or any portion of the Warrant, (ii) all Common Shares of the
         Company that may hereafter be acquired by Evergreen pursuant to
         the Stock Purchase Agreement dated the date hereof to which the
         Company and Evergreen are parties, and (iii) any Common Shares of
         the Company issued as (or issuable upon the conversion or exercise
         of any warrant, right or other security which is issued as) a
         dividend or other distribution with respect to, or in exchange for
         or in replacement of, all such Common Shares described in clauses
         (i) and (ii) of this subsection (c); excluding in all cases,
         however, any Registrable Securities sold by a person in a
         transaction in which rights under this Article I are not assigned
         in accordance with this Agreement or any Registrable Securities
         sold to the public or sold pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under
         the Securities Act.

                  (d) Registration. The terms "register," "registration"
         and "registered" mean a registration effected by preparing and
         filing a registration statement in compliance with the Securities
         Act and the declaration or ordering of effectiveness of such
         registration statement.

                  (e) Registration Expenses. The term "Registration
         Expenses" means all expenses incurred by the Company in complying
         with Sections 1.02 and 1.03 hereof, including, without limitation,
         all registration and filing fees, listing fees, printing expenses,
         fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, blue sky fees
         and expenses, the expense of any special audits incident to or
         required by any such registration (but excluding the compensation
         of regular employees of the Company which shall be paid in any
         event by the Company) and the expenses of underwriters customarily
         paid by similarly situated companies in connection with
         underwritten offerings of equity securities to the public
         (including any qualified independent underwriter required in
         connection with such underwritten offering), excluding any such
         fees based on the proceeds of sales of Registrable Securities by
         selling Holders.

                  (f) Registration Statement. The term "Registration
         Statement" means any registration statement under the Securities
         Act for purposes of effecting a public offering of securities of
         the Company.

                  (g) SEC. The term "SEC" means the U.S. Securities and
         Exchange Commission.

                  (h) Securities Act. The term "Securities Act" means the
         Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.

         Section 1.2. PIGGYBACK REGISTRATIONS.

                  (a) Right to Piggyback. The Company shall notify all
         Holders in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to filing any
         Registration Statement (including, but not limited to,
         Registration Statements relating to secondary offerings of
         securities of the Company, but excluding Registration Statements
         relating to any employee benefit plan or a corporate
         reorganization) and will afford each such Holder an opportunity to
         include in such Registration Statement all or any part of the
         Registrable Securities then held by such Holder. Each Holder
         desiring to include in any such Registration Statement all or any
         part of the Registrable Securities held by such Holder shall,
         within twenty (20) days after receipt of the above-described
         notice from the Company, so notify the Company in writing, and in
         such notice shall inform the Company of the number of Registrable
         Securities such Holder wishes to include in such Registration
         Statement. The Company thereupon will use its best efforts as a
         part of its filing of such Registration Statement to effect the
         registration under the Securities Act of all Registrable
         Securities which the Company has been so requested to register by
         the Holder, to the extent required to permit the disposition of
         the Registrable Securities so to be registered. If a Holder
         decides not to include all of its Registrable Securities in any
         Registration Statement thereafter filed by the Company, such
         Holder shall nevertheless continue to have the right to include
         any Registrable Securities in any subsequent Registration
         Statement or Registration Statements as may be filed by the
         Company with respect to offerings of its securities, all upon the
         terms and conditions set forth herein.

                  (b) Underwriting. If a Registration Statement under which
         the Company gives notice under this Section 1.02 is for an
         underwritten offering, then the Company shall so advise the
         Holders. In such event, the right of any such Holder's Registrable
         Securities to be included in a registration pursuant to this
         Section 1.02 shall be conditioned upon such Holder's participation
         in such underwriting and the inclusion of such Holder's
         Registrable Securities in the underwriting to the extent provided
         herein. All Holders proposing to distribute their Registrable
         Securities through such underwriting shall enter into an
         underwriting agreement in customary form with the managing
         underwriter or underwriter(s) selected for such underwriting.
         Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if the
         managing underwriter(s) determine(s) in good faith that marketing
         factors require a limitation of the number of shares to be
         underwritten, then the managing underwriter(s) may exclude shares
         (including Registrable Securities) from the registration and the
         underwriting, and the number of shares that may be included in the
         registration and the underwriting shall be allocated, first, to
         the Company, and second, the maximum number of Registrable
         Securities requested to be included therein by the Holders and the
         maximum number of any other securities of the same class as the
         Registrable Securities ("Other Securities") requested to be
         included therein by other shareholders of the Company having
         registration rights ("Other Holders"), pro rata among the
         respective Holders and Other Holders on the basis of the number of
         Registrable Securities and Other Securities requested to be
         included in such registration by each such Holder and Other
         Holder. If any Holder disapproves of the terms of any such
         underwriting, such Holder may elect to withdraw all or any part of
         such Holder's Registrable Securities therefrom by written notice
         to the Company and the underwriter, delivered at any time prior to
         the effective date of the Registration Statement. Any Registrable
         Securities excluded or withdrawn from such underwriting shall be
         excluded and withdrawn from the registration. For any Holder that
         is a partnership or corporation, the partners, retired partners
         and shareholders of such Holder, or the estates and family members
         of any such partners and retired partners and any trusts for the
         benefit of any of the foregoing persons shall be deemed to be a
         single "Holder," and any pro rata reduction with respect to such
         "Holder" shall be based upon the aggregate amount of shares
         carrying registration rights owned by all entities and individuals
         included in such "Holder," as defined in this sentence.

                  (c) Expenses. All Registration Expenses incurred in
         connection with a registration pursuant to this Section 1.02 shall
         be borne by the Company, except that notwithstanding anything to
         the contrary herein, if a Holder withdraws all or any part of such
         Holder's Registrable Securities from an underwriting at any time
         less than ten (10) business days prior to the effective date of
         the Registration Statement, such Holder shall pay its pro rata
         share (based on the number of Registrable Securities included in
         the Registration Statement on behalf of such Holder, or if no
         Registration Statement had been filed as of the date of such
         withdrawal, the number of Registrable Securities such Holder
         requested to be included in the Registration Statement) of all
         Registration Expenses, excluding all discounts, commissions or
         other amounts payable to underwriters or brokers in connection
         with the offering. Each Holder participating in a registration
         pursuant to this Section 1.02 shall bear such Holder's
         proportionate share (based on the total number of shares sold in
         such registration) of all discounts, commissions or other amounts
         payable to underwriters or brokers in connection with such
         offering.


         Section 1.03.     DEMAND REGISTRATION RIGHTS.

                  (a) At any time after June 1, 2001, the Holder may
         request, in writing, that the Company effect the registration on
         Form S-1 or Form S-2 (or any comparable form applied to small
         business issues or any successor form) of Registrable Shares;
         provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to
         register any Registrable Shares unless, as of the date of
         effectiveness of the applicable Registration Statement, the Holder
         shall own such Registrable Shares. If the Holder intends to
         distribute the Registrable Shares by means of an underwriting, it
         shall so advise the Company in its request. Thereupon, the Company
         shall, as expeditiously as possible, use its best efforts to
         effect the registration on Form S-1 or Form S-2 (or any comparable
         form applied to small business issues or any successor form) of
         all Registrable Shares which the Company has been requested to
         register. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be
         obligated to effect a registration pursuant to this Section 1.03
         unless at least 500,000 Registrable Shares (as adjusted for stock
         splits, stock dividends, reclassifications or similar events) are
         to be registered.

                  (b) At any time after June 1, 2001 that the Company is
         eligible to file a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (or any
         comparable form applied to small business issues or any successor
         form relating to secondary offerings), the Holder may request the
         Company, in writing, to effect the registration on Form S-3 (or
         such comparable or successor form), or such number of Registrable
         Shares as the Holder shall request. Thereupon, the Company shall,
         as expeditiously as possible, use its best efforts to effect the
         registration on Form S-3 (or such comparable or successor form) of
         all Registrable Shares which the Company has been requested to
         register.

                  (c) The Company shall not be required to effect more than
         two registrations pursuant to this Section 1.03 and shall not be
         required to effect more than one registration in any twelve-month
         period. In addition, the Company shall not be required to effect
         any registration (other than on Form S-3 or any comparable form
         applied to small business issues or any successor form relating to
         secondary offerings) within six months after the effective date of
         any other Registration Statement of the Company.

                  (d) If at the time of any request to register Registrable
         Shares pursuant to this Section 1.03, the Company is engaged or
         has fixed plans to engage within 30 days of the time of the
         request in a registered public offering as to which the Holder may
         include Registrable Shares pursuant to Section 1.02 or is engaged
         in any other activity which, in the good faith determination of
         the Company's Board of Directors, would be adversely affected by
         the requested registration to the material detriment of the
         Company, then the Company may at its option direct that such
         request be delayed for a period not in excess of six months from
         the effective date of such offering or the commencement of such
         other material activity, as the case may be, such right to delay a
         request to be exercised by the Company not more than once in any
         two-year period.

                  (e) If any registration requested by the Holder pursuant
         to this Section 1.03 would require any audit or financial
         statement preparation that would not otherwise be required by the
         Company for compliance with the periodic reporting requirements of
         the Exchange Act (except for such audit or financial statement
         preparation that would, within six months of the effectiveness of
         such registration, be required for such compliance), the Holder
         shall bear the costs of such audit or financial statement
         preparation.

         Section 1.04. OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY. Whenever required to
effect the registration of any Registrable Securities under this Agreement,
the Company shall:

                  (a) Prepare and file with the SEC a Registration
         Statement with respect to such Registrable Securities and use
         reasonable, diligent efforts to cause such Registration Statement
         to become effective.

                  (b) Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and
         supplements to such Registration Statement and the prospectus used
         in connection with such Registration Statement as may be necessary
         to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect
         to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration
         Statement.

                  (c) Furnish to the Holders such number of copies of a
         prospectus, including a preliminary prospectus, in conformity with
         the requirements of the Securities Act and such other documents as
         they may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition
         of the Registrable Securities owned by them that are included in
         such registration.

                  (d) Use reasonable, diligent efforts to register and
         qualify the securities covered by such Registration Statement
         under such other securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions
         as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders, provided that the
         Company shall not be required solely as a result of such
         Registration or as a condition thereto to qualify to do business
         or to file a general consent to service of process in any such
         jurisdictions.

                  (e) In the event of any underwritten public offering,
         enter into and perform its obligations under an underwriting
         agreement, in usual and customary form, with the managing
         underwriter(s) of such offering.

                  (f) Notify each Holder of Registrable Securities covered
         by such Registration Statement at any time when a prospectus
         relating thereto is required to be delivered under the Securities
         Act of the happening of any event as a result of which the
         prospectus included in such Registration Statement, as then in
         effect, includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits
         to state a material fact required to be stated therein or
         necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the
         light of the circumstances then existing, and at the request of
         each Holder promptly prepare and furnish to such Holder a
         reasonable number of copies of a supplement to or amendment of
         such prospectus as may be necessary so that, as thereafter
         delivered to the purchasers of such Registrable Securities, such
         prospectus shall not include an untrue statement of a material
         fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated
         therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading
         in the light of the circumstances then existing.

                  (g) Use its best efforts to list such Registrable
         Securities on each securities exchange on which any equity
         security of the Company is then listed.


         Section 1.05.      OBLIGATIONS OF THE HOLDERS.

                  (a) It shall be a condition precedent to the obligations
         of the Company to take any action pursuant to Sections 1.02 and
         1.03 that the selling Holders furnish to the Company such
         information regarding themselves, the Registrable Securities held
         by them, and the intended method of disposition of such securities
         as is required to timely effect the registration of their
         Registrable Securities.

                  (b) Each Holder delivering a written request to
         participate in an underwritten registered offering in accordance
         with Section 1.02 shall, if requested by the Company, as soon as
         practicable after such delivery, execute and deliver to the
         Company a custody agreement and power of attorney in customary
         form satisfactory to the Company and any managing underwriter with
         respect to the Registrable Securities identified for sale by such
         Holder (a "Custody Agreement" and "Power of Attorney,"
         respectively). Each Custody Agreement and Power of Attorney shall
         provide, among other things, that such Holder will deliver to and
         deposit in custody with the custodian named therein (which shall
         be designated by the Company) a certificate or certificates
         representing such Registrable Securities (duly endorsed in blank
         by the registered owner or owners thereof or accompanied by duly
         executed stock powers in blank) and irrevocably appoint such
         custodian and attorney-in-fact with full power and authority to
         act under the Custody Agreement and Power of Attorney,
         respectively, on the Holder's behalf with respect to matters
         specified therein, including the execution and delivery of an
         underwriting agreement.

                  (c) Each Holder that has Registrable Securities included
         in any Registration Statement shall not (until further notice from
         the Company) effect sales thereof after receipt of notice from the
         Company to suspend sales to permit the Company to correct or
         update any Registration Statement, including any prospectus.

         Section 1.06. DELAY OF REGISTRATION. No Holder shall have any
right to obtain or seek an injunction restraining or otherwise delaying any
such registration as the result of any controversy that might arise with
respect to the interpretation or implementation of this Article I.

         Section 1.07. INDEMNIFICATION. In the event any Registrable
Securities are included in a Registration Statement pursuant to Section
1.02 and Section 1.03:

                  (a) By the Company. To the extent permitted by law, the
         Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Holder, the
         partners, officers, directors, legal counsel and accountants of
         each Holder, any underwriter (as defined in the Securities Act)
         for such Holder and each person, if any, who controls such Holder
         or underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act or the
         Exchange Act against any losses, claims, expenses, damages, or
         liabilities (joint or several) to which they may become subject
         under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any other securities
         or other law of any jurisdiction, common law or otherwise, insofar
         as such losses, claims, expenses, damages, or liabilities (or
         actions proceedings or settlements in respect thereof) arise out
         of or are based upon any of the following statements, omissions or
         violations (collectively, "Violations" and, individually, a
         "Violation"):

                        (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue
                  statement of a material fact contained in or incorporated
                  by reference in any Registration Statement, including any
                  preliminary prospectus or final prospectus contained
                  therein or any amendments or supplements thereto or any
                  document incorporated by reference therein;

                        (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state
                  therein a material fact required to be stated therein, or
                  necessary to make the statements therein not misleading,
                  or

                        (iii) any violation or alleged violation by the
                  Company of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or any
                  other securities or other law of any jurisdiction, common
                  law or otherwise, or any rule or regulation promulgated
                  under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any such
                  other laws, in connection with the offering covered by
                  such Registration Statement;

         and the Company will reimburse each such Holder, partner, officer
         or director, underwriter or controlling person for any legal or
         other expenses reasonably incurred by them, as incurred, in
         connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim,
         damage, liability or action; provided, however, that the indemnity
         agreement contained in this subsection 1.07(a) shall not apply to
         amounts paid in settlement of any such loss, claim, damage,
         liability or action if such settlement is effected without the
         consent of the Company (which consent shall not be unreasonably
         withheld), nor shall the Company be liable in any such case for
         any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action to the extent
         that it arises out of or is based upon a Violation which occurs in
         reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished
         expressly for use in connection with such registration by such
         Holder, partner, officer, director, underwriter or controlling
         person of such Holder.

                (b) By Selling Holders. To the extent permitted by law,
         each selling Holder, severally and not jointly, will indemnify and
         hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its
         officers who have signed the Registration Statement, each person,
         if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the
         Securities Act, its legal counsel, its accountants, any
         underwriter and any other Holder selling securities under such
         Registration Statement or any of such other Holder's partners,
         directors or officers or any person who controls such Holder
         within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act,
         against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (joint or
         several) to which the Company or any such director, officer,
         controlling person, legal counsel, accountant, underwriter or
         other such Holder, partner or director, officer or controlling
         person of such other Holder may become subject under the
         Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any other securities or other
         law of any jurisdiction, common law or otherwise, insofar as such
         losses, claims, expenses, damages or liabilities (or actions in
         respect thereto) arise out of or are based upon any Violation, in
         each case to the extent (and only to the extent) that such
         Violation occurs in reliance upon and in conformity with written
         information furnished by such Holder expressly for use in
         connection with such registration; and each such Holder will
         reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the
         Company or any such director, officer, controlling person, legal
         counsel, accountant, underwriter or other Holder, partner,
         officer, director, legal counsel, accountant or controlling person
         of such other Holder in connection with investigating or defending
         any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided,
         however, that the indemnity agreement contained in this subsection
         1.07(b) shall not apply to amounts paid in settlement of any such
         loss, claim, damage, liability or action if such settlement is
         effected without the consent of the Holder, which consent shall
         not be unreasonably withheld; and provided, further, that the
         total amounts payable by a Holder under this Section 1.07 in
         respect of any Violation shall not exceed the net proceeds
         received by such Holder in the registered offering out of which
         such Violation arises.

                (c) Notice. Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party
         under this Section 1.07 of notice of the commencement of any
         action (including any governmental action), such indemnified party
         will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against any
         indemnifying party under this Section 1.07, deliver to the
         indemnifying party a written notice of the commencement thereof
         and the indemnifying party shall have the right to participate in,
         and, to the extent the indemnifying party so desires, jointly with
         any other indemnifying party similarly noticed, to assume the
         defense thereof with counsel mutually satisfactory to the parties;
         provided, however, that an indemnified party shall have the right
         to retain its own counsel, with the fees and expenses to be paid
         by the indemnifying party, if representation of such indemnified
         party by the counsel retained by the indemnifying party would be
         inappropriate due to actual or potential conflict of interests
         between such indemnified party and any other party represented by
         such counsel in such proceeding or if, and for such period, such
         indemnified party was required to retain counsel prior to the
         indemnifying party's retention of counsel. The failure to deliver
         written notice to the indemnifying party within a reasonable time
         of the commencement of any such action shall relieve such
         indemnifying party of its liability to the indemnified party under
         this Section 1.07 only if and to the extent it is prejudicial to
         its ability to defend such action, and the omission to so deliver
         written notice to the indemnifying party will not relieve it of
         any liability that it may have to any indemnified party otherwise
         than under this Section 1.07.

                (d) Defect Eliminated in Final Prospectus. The foregoing
         indemnity agreements of the Company and Holders are subject to the
         limitation that, insofar as they relate to any Violation made in a
         preliminary prospectus but eliminated or remedied in the amended
         prospectus on file with the SEC at the time the Registration
         Statement in question becomes effective or the amended prospectus
         filed with the SEC pursuant to SEC Rule 424(b) (the "Final
         Prospectus"), such indemnity agreement shall not inure to the
         benefit of any person if a copy of the Final Prospectus was
         furnished to the indemnified party and was not furnished to the
         person asserting the loss, liability, claim or damage at or prior
         to the time such action is required by the Securities Act.

                (e) Contribution. In order to provide for just and
         equitable contribution to joint liability under the Securities
         Act, in any case in which either (i) any Holder exercising rights
         under this Agreement, or any controlling person of any such
         Holder, makes a claim for indemnification pursuant to this Section
         1.07 but it is judicially determined (by the entry of a final
         judgment or decree by a court of competent jurisdiction and the
         expiration of time to appeal or the denial of the last right of
         appeal) that such indemnification may not be enforced or is
         otherwise unavailable in such case notwithstanding the fact that
         this Section 1.07 provides for indemnification in such case, or
         (ii) contribution under the Securities Act may be required on the
         part of any such selling Holder or any such controlling person in
         circumstances for which indemnification is provided under this
         Section 1.07; then, and in each such case, the Company and such
         Holder will contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages or
         liabilities to which they may be subject (after contribution from
         others) in such proportion so that such Holder is responsible for
         the portion represented by the percentage that the public offering
         price of its Registrable Securities offered by and sold under the
         Registration Statement bears to the public offering price of all
         securities offered by and sold under such Registration Statement,
         and the Company and other selling Holders are responsible for the
         remaining portion; provided, however, that, in any such case, (A)
         no such Holder will be required to contribute any amount in excess
         of the net proceeds received from the sale of all such Registrable
         Securities offered and sold by such Holder pursuant to such
         Registration Statement; and (B) no person or entity guilty of
         fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f)
         of the Securities Act) will be entitled to contribution from any
         person or entity who was not guilty of such fraudulent
         misrepresentation.

                (f) Survival; Release. The obligations of the Company and
         Holders under this Section 1.07 shall survive the completion of
         any offering of Registrable Securities in a Registration Statement
         and otherwise. No indemnifying party, in the defense of any such
         claim or litigation, shall, except with the consent of each
         indemnified party, consent to entry of any judgment or enter into
         any settlement which admits fault on behalf of the indemnified
         party or which does not include as an unconditional term thereof
         the giving by the claimant or plaintiff to such indemnified party
         of a release from all liability in respect to such claim or
         litigation.

         Section 1.08. "MARKET STAND-OFF" AGREEMENT. Each Holder hereby
agrees that it shall not, to the extent requested by the Company or an
underwriter of securities of the Company, sell or otherwise transfer or
dispose of any Registrable Securities or other shares of stock of the
Company then owned by such Holder (other than to donees of the Holder who
agree to be similarly bound) for up to ninety (90) days following the
effective date of a Registration Statement of the Company for an
underwritten offering filed under the Securities Act; provided that all
officers and directors of the Company have entered into similar agreements.
In order to enforce the foregoing covenant, the Company shall have the
right to place restrictive legends on the certificates representing the
shares subject to this Section and to impose stop transfer instructions
with respect to the Registrable Securities and such other shares of each
Holder (and the shares or securities of every other person subject to the
foregoing restriction) until the end of such period.

         Section 1.09. TERMINATION OF THE COMPANY'S OBLIGATIONS. The
Company shall have no obligations pursuant to Section 1.02 or 1.03 with
respect to any Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by a Holder in a
registration pursuant to Section 1.02 if, in the opinion of counsel to the
Company, all such Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by a Holder
and all other Common Shares then owned by such Holder may be sold in a
three-month period without registration under the Securities Act pursuant
to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In such event, such Holder shall not
be subject to the provisions of Section 1.08.

                                ARTICLE II

                          ASSIGNMENT AND AMENDMENT

         Section 2.1. ASSIGNMENT. The rights of a Holder under this
Agreement may be assigned to any party who acquires any of the Registrable
Securities of such Holder in compliance with all provisions of this
Agreement and the Warrant; provided, however that any such assignee shall
receive such assigned rights subject to all the terms and conditions of
this Agreement. The Holder shall provide the Company with written notice
promptly after such assignment stating the name and address of the assignee
and identifying the securities of the Company as to which the rights in
question are being assigned.

         Section 2.2. AMENDMENT. Any provision of this Agreement may be
amended and the observance thereof may be waived (either generally or in a
particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively), only with
the written consent of the Company and Holders holding Registrable
Securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of all the
Registrable Securities (on an as-converted basis). Any amendment or waiver
effected in accordance with this Section 2.02 shall be binding upon each
Holder and the Company.

                                ARTICLE III

                             GENERAL PROVISIONS

         Section 3.1. NOTICES. Any and all notices required or permitted
to be given to a party pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement must be
in writing and will be effective and deemed to provide such party
sufficient notice under this Agreement on the earliest of the following:
(i) at the time of personal delivery, if delivery is in person; (ii) at the
time of transmission by facsimile, addressed to the other party at its
facsimile number, with confirmation of receipt made by both telephone and
printed confirmation sheet verifying successful transmission of the
facsimile; (iii) one (1) business day after deposit with an express
overnight courier for deliveries within a country, or three (3) business
days after such deposit for international deliveries or (iv) three (3)
business days after deposit in mail by certified mail (return receipt
requested) or equivalent for deliveries within a country.

         All notices for international delivery will be sent by facsimile
or by express courier. All notices not delivered personally or by facsimile
will be sent with postage and/or other charges prepaid and properly
addressed to the party to be notified at the following address or facsimile
number:

         Company:          KFx Inc.
                           3300 East First Avenue, Suite 290
                           Denver, Colorado 80206
                           Facsimile:  (303) 293-8430
                           Attention:  Chief Financial Officer

         Evergreen:        Evergreen Resources, Inc.
                           1401 Seventeenth Street, Suite 1200
                           Denver, Colorado  80202
                           Facsimile:  (303) 298-7800
                           Attention: Chief Financial Officer

         New Holders:      As set forth in the written notice to the Company
                           pursuant to Section 2.01.

         Any party hereto (and such party's permitted assigns) may by
notice so given change its address for future notices hereunder. Notice
shall conclusively be deemed to have been given in the manner set forth
above.

         Section 3.2. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement and the Warrant
constitute and contain the entire agreement and understanding of the
parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and
all prior negotiations, correspondence, agreements, understandings, duties
or obligations between the parties respecting the subject matter hereof.

         Section 3.3. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by,
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.

         Section 3.4. NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. This Agreement shall
be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the parties hereto and
their permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended
to or shall confer upon any other person any legal or equitable right,
benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this
Agreement.

         Section 3.5. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. The provisions of this
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the
successors and permitted assigns of the parties hereto.

         Section 3.6. HEADINGS. The descriptive headings contained in this
Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any
way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

         Section 3.7. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in one
or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same
agreement.

         Section 3.8. EXPENSES. All costs and expenses, including, without
limitation, fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisors and
accountants, incurred in connection with this Agreement and the
transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such
costs and expenses.

         Section 3.9. CONSTRUCTION. Words used herein, regardless of the
gender specifically used, shall be deemed and construed to include any
other gender, masculine, feminine or neuter, as the context requires.

                [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]




         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this
Agreement as of the date and year first written above.


                                            THE COMPANY:

                                            KFX INC.


                                            By: /s/ Seth L. Patterson
                                               --------------------------------
                                            Name:  Seth L. Patterson
                                            Title: Executive Vice President and
                                                   Chief Financial Officer


                                            HOLDER:

                                            EVERGREEN RESOURCES, INC.


                                            By: /s/ Mark Sexton
                                               --------------------------------
                                            Name:  Mark Sexton
                                            Title: President and Chief
                                                   Executive Officer



             [SIGNATURE PAGE TO REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT]




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>0006.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.11 - CERTIFICATE
<TEXT>



                                  KFX INC.


               166,667 Warrants Each to Purchase One Share of
                          Common Stock of KFx Inc.

                                                       Warrants to Purchase
                                                             166,667 Shares


                  THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT
         BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE
         "ACT"), OR ANY OF THE LAWS OF ANY STATE AND HAVE BEEN ISSUED
         PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT. THE
         SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE OFFERED,
         SOLD OR TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IF (A) COVERED BY AN EFFECTIVE
         REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE ACT AND REGISTERED OR QUALIFIED
         UNDER APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS, OR (B) THE CORPORATION HAS
         BEEN FURNISHED WITH AN OPINION OF COUNSEL REASONABLY ACCEPTABLE TO
         THE CORPORATION TO THE EFFECT THAT NO REGISTRATION OR
         QUALIFICATION IS LEGALLY REQUIRED FOR SUCH TRANSFER.

         FOR VALUE RECEIVED, KFx Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), hereby certifies that William H. Walker or his registered
assigns as permitted herein (the "Holder") is entitled, subject to the
provisions of this Warrant Certificate, to purchase from the Company, at
the times specified herein, 166,667 fully paid and non-assessable shares of
Common Stock of the Company, par value $.001 per share (the "Common
Stock"), at a purchase price per share equal to the Exercise Price (as
hereinafter defined) (the "Warrants"). The number of shares of Common Stock
to be received upon the exercise of the Warrants are subject to adjustment
from time to time as hereinafter set forth.

                                 ARTICLE I

                                DEFINITIONS

         The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:

         "Act" means the Securities Act of 1933.

         "Board" means the board of directors of the Company.

         "Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other
day on which commercial banks in the City of New York are authorized by law
to close.

         "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.

         "Common Stock" means the Company's common stock, $.001 par value
per share.

         "Exercise Price" means $3.65 per Warrant Share, such Exercise
Price to be adjusted from time to time as provided herein.

         "Expiration Date" means the earlier of (i) 5:00 p.m. Denver,
Colorado time on March __, 2006, and (ii) the date of its exercise in full.

         "Person" means an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a
limited liability company, a trust, a joint venture, an unincorporated
organization and a government or any department or agency thereof.

         "Warrant Shares" means the shares of Common Stock deliverable upon
exercise of the Warrants, as the number of such shares shall be adjusted
from time to time as provided herein, provided that if there is a change
such that the securities issuable upon exercise of the Warrants are issued
by an entity other than the Company or there is a change in the class of
securities so issuable, then the term "Warrant Shares" will mean the shares
of the security issuable upon exercise of the Warrants if such security is
issuable in shares, or will mean the smallest units in which such security
is issuable if such security is not issuable in shares.

                                 ARTICLE II

         Section 2.01. Exercise of Warrants.

         (1) The Holder is entitled to exercise the Warrants in whole or in
part at any time, or from time to time, until the Expiration Date or, if
such day is not a Business Day, then on the next succeeding day that shall
be a Business Day. To exercise the Warrants, the Holder shall execute and
deliver to the Company a Warrant Exercise Notice substantially in the form
annexed hereto, together with this Warrant Certificate and the payment of
the applicable Exercise Price. Upon such delivery and payment, the Holder
shall be deemed to be the holder of record of the Warrant Shares subject to
such exercise, notwithstanding that the stock transfer books of the Company
shall then be closed or that certificates representing such Warrant Shares
shall not then be actually delivered to the Holder.

         (2) The Exercise Price may be paid in cash or by certified or
official bank check or bank cashier's check payable to the order of the
Company or by any combination of such checks. In addition, the Holder of
this Warrant may exercise this Warrant by surrendering it to the Company to
purchase a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of such
shares then purchasable upon exercise hereof less the number of such shares
equal to the quotient of the aggregate Exercise Price of all such shares
underlying this Warrant divided by the Fair Market Price per Share. Fair
Market Price per Share shall mean the average of the closing sales prices,
if available, or the average of the bid and asked prices for the Common
Stock (or its successor), on the principal market therefor for the five
trading days preceding the day which is one business day prior to the day
of exercise, or if no such price is available, as determined by the Board.
The Company shall pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or
transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of the Warrant
Shares.

         (3) If the Holder exercises the Warrants in part, this Warrant
Certificate shall be surrendered by the Holder to the Company and a new
Warrant Certificate of the same tenor and for the unexercised number of
Warrant Shares shall be executed by the Company. The Company shall register
the new Warrant Certificate in the name of the Holder or in such name or
names of its transferees as may be directed in writing by the Holder and
deliver the new Warrant Certificate to the Person or Persons entitled to
receive the same.

         (4) Upon surrender of this Warrant Certificate in conformity with
the foregoing provisions, the Company shall transfer to the Holder of this
Warrant Certificate appropriate evidence of ownership of the shares of
Common Stock or other securities or property (including any money) to which
the Holder is entitled, registered or otherwise placed in, or payable to
the order of, the name or names of the Holder or such transferee as may be
directed in writing by the Holder, and shall deliver such evidence of
ownership and any other securities or property (including any money) to the
Person or Persons entitled to receive the same, together with the amount in
cash in lieu of any fraction of a share as provided in Section 2.03 below.

         Section 2.02. Restrictive Legend. Certificates representing shares
of Common Stock issued pursuant to the Warrants shall bear a legend
substantially in the form of the legend set forth on the first page of this
Warrant Certificate.

         Section 2.03. Fractional Shares. No fractional shares or scrip
representing fractional shares shall be issued upon the exercise of the
Warrants and in lieu of delivery of any such fractional share upon any
exercise hereof, the Company shall pay to the Holder an amount in cash
equal to such fraction multiplied by the then current market price per
share of Common Stock.

         Section 2.04. Loss or Destruction of Warrant. Upon receipt by the
Company of evidence satisfactory to it (in the exercise of its reasonable
discretion) of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of this Warrant
Certificate, and (in the case of loss, theft or destruction) of reasonably
satisfactory indemnification, and upon surrender and cancellation of this
Warrant Certificate, if mutilated, the Company shall execute and deliver a
new Warrant Certificate of like tenor and date.

         Section 2.05. Forfeiture. Except as otherwise provided in this
Warrant, the Warrants may be exercised at any time through the close of
business on March __, 2006.

         Section 2.06. Effect of Reorganization, Reclassification,
Consolidation, Merger or Sale. If at any time while this Warrant is
outstanding there shall be any reorganization or reclassification of the
capital stock of the Company (other than a stock split, stock dividend or
other subdivision or combination of shares) or any consolidation or merger
of the Company with another corporation (other than a consolidation or
merger in which the Company is the surviving entity and which does not
result in any change in the Common Stock), or any sale or other disposition
by the Company of all or substantially all of its assets to any other
corporation, the Holder shall thereafter upon exercise of this Warrant be
entitled to receive the number of shares of stock or other securities or
property of the Company, or of the successor corporation resulting from
such consolidation or merger, as the case may be, to which the Warrant
Shares deliverable upon the exercise of this Warrant would have been
entitled upon such reorganization, reclassification of capital stock,
consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition if this Warrant had been
exercised immediately prior to such reorganization, reclassification of
capital stock, consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition. In any
such case, appropriate adjustment (as determined by the Board) shall be
made in the application of the provisions set forth in this Warrant with
respect to the rights and interests thereafter of the Holder to the end
that the provisions set forth in this Warrant (including those relating to
adjustments of the Exercise Price and the number of shares issuable upon
the exercise of this Warrant) shall thereafter be applicable, as near as
reasonably may be, in relation to any shares or other property thereafter
deliverable upon the exercise hereof as if this Warrant had been exercised
immediately prior to such reorganization, reclassification of capital
stock, consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition and the Holder
hereof had carried out the terms of the exchange as provided for by such
reorganization, reclassification of capital stock, consolidation or merger.

         Section 2.07. Adjustments for Stock Events. If at any time there
shall occur any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split or other
subdivision or combination of the Company's Common Stock (a "Stock Event"),
then the number of shares of Common Stock to be received by the holder of
this Warrant shall be appropriately adjusted such that the proportion of
the number of shares issuable hereunder to the total number of shares of
the Company (on a fully diluted basis) prior to such Stock Event is equal
to the proportion of the number of shares issuable hereunder after such
Stock Event to the total number of shares of the Company (on a
fully-diluted basis) after such Stock Event. No adjustment to the Exercise
Price shall be made in connection with any adjustment of the number of
shares of Common Stock receivable upon exercise of this Warrant, except
that the Exercise Price shall be proportionately decreased or increased
upon the occurrence of any Stock Event; however, in no event shall the
Exercise Price be less than the par value of the Common Stock.

         Section 2.08. Reservation of Common Stock. The Company will at all
times reserve and keep available for issuance upon the exercise of the
Warrant such number of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock
as will be sufficient to permit the exercise in full of the Warrant, and
when issued upon such exercise shall be validly issued, fully paid and
nonassessable.

                                ARTICLE III

                              NO VOTING RIGHTS

         Prior to the exercise of any Warrant, the Holder shall not, by
virtue hereof, be entitled to any rights as a stockholder of the Company,
including, without limitation, the right to vote, to receive dividends or
other distributions, to exercise any preemptive rights or to receive any
notice of meeting of stockholders or any notice of any proceedings of the
Company except as may be specifically provided for herein.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                              REPRESENTATIONS

         (a) The Holder of this Warrant acknowledges and represents:

                           (i) that neither this Warrant nor the Warrant
                  Shares have been registered under the Act, or any state
                  securities law and agrees not to sell, pledge,
                  distribute, offer for sale, transfer or otherwise dispose
                  of this Warrant or any Warrant Shares issued upon its
                  exercise in the absence of (A) an effective registration
                  statement as to this Warrant or such Warrant Shares under
                  the Act (or any similar statute then in effect) or any
                  state securities law, or (B) an opinion of counsel for
                  the Company to the effect that such registration is not,
                  under the circumstances, required.

                           (ii) THE OFFER AND SALE OF THE SECURITIES
                  EVIDENCED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED
                  UNDER THE ACT, AND SUCH SECURITIES MAY NOT BE SOLD OR
                  TRANSFERRED UNLESS THERE IS AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION
                  STATEMENT UNDER SUCH ACT COVERING SUCH SALE OR TRANSFER
                  OR THE COMPANY RECEIVES AN OPINION OF COUNSEL (WHICH MAY
                  BE COUNSEL FOR THE COMPANY) STATING THAT SUCH SALE OR
                  TRANSFER IS EXEMPT FROM THE REGISTRATION AND PROSPECTUS
                  DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS OF SUCH ACT.

                           (iii) The Holder is acquiring this Warrant and
                  the Warrant Shares for its own account for investment and
                  not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any
                  distribution thereof; nor with any present intention of
                  distributing or selling the same.

                           (iv) The Holder has made detailed inquiry
                  concerning the Company, its business and its personnel;
                  the officers of the Company have made available to the
                  Holder any and all written information which it has
                  requested and have answered to the Holder's satisfaction
                  all inquiries made by the Holder, and the Holder has
                  sufficient knowledge and experience in investing in
                  companies similar to the Company so as to be able to
                  evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the
                  Company and is able financially to bear the risks
                  thereof.

         (b) The Holder understands that the Company proposes to issue and
         deliver this Warrant and the Warrant Shares to the Holder pursuant
         to this Agreement without compliance with the registration
         requirements of the Act; that for such purpose the Company will
         rely upon the representations, warranties, covenants and
         agreements contained herein; and that such non-compliance with
         registration is not permissible unless such representations and
         warranties are correct and such covenants and agreements
         performed. The Holder is an "accredited investor" as such term is
         defined in Rule 501 under the Act.

         (c) The Holder understands that, under existing rules of the
         Commission, the Holder may be unable to sell this Warrant and the
         Warrant Shares except to the extent that this Warrant and the
         Warrant Shares may be sold (i) pursuant to an effective
         registration statement covering such securities pursuant to the
         Act or (ii) in a bona fide private placement to a purchaser who
         shall be subject to the same restrictions on any resale or (iii)
         subject to the restrictions contained in Rule 144 under the Act.

         (d) The Holder (either alone or together with its advisors) has
         sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business
         matters so as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of
         its investment in this Warrant and the Warrant Shares and the
         Holder is capable of bearing the economic risks of such
         investment.

                                 ARTICLE V

                               NO IMPAIRMENT

         The Company will not, by amendment of its charter or through
reorganization, consolidation, merger, dissolution, sale of assets or any
other voluntary action, avoid or seek to avoid the observance or
performance of any of the terms of this Warrant, but will at all times in
good faith assist in the carrying out of all such terms and in the taking
of all such action as may be necessary or appropriate in order to protect
the rights of the Holder of this Warrant against impairment.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                           LIQUIDATING DIVIDENDS

         If the Company pays a dividend or makes a distribution on the
Common Stock payable otherwise than in cash out of earnings or earned
surplus (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles), except for a stock dividend payable in shares of Common Stock
(a "Liquidating Dividend"), then the Company will pay or distribute to the
holder of this Warrant, upon the exercise hereof, in addition to the
Warrant Shares purchased upon such exercise, the Liquidating Dividend which
would have been paid to such holder if he had been the owner of record of
such shares of Common Stock immediately prior to the date on which a record
is taken for such Liquidating Dividend or, if no record is taken, the date
as of which the record holders of Common Stock entitled to such dividend or
distribution are to be determined.

                                ARTICLE VII

                        NOTICES OF RECORD DATE, ETC.

         In case:

                  (a) the Company shall take a record of the holders of its
         Common Stock (or other stock or securities at the time deliverable
         upon the exercise of this Warrant) for the purpose of entitling or
         enabling them to receive any dividend or other distribution, or to
         receive any other right, or

                  (b) of any capital reorganization of the Company, any
         reclassification of the capital stock of the Company, any
         consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another
         corporation (other than a consolidation or merger in which the
         Company is the surviving entity), or any transfer of all or
         substantially all of the assets of the Company, or

                  (c) of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution,
         liquidation or winding-up of the Company,

then, and in each such case, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed to
the Holder of this Warrant a notice specifying as the case may be, (i) the
date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend,
distribution or right, and stating the amount and character of such
dividend, distribution or right, or (ii) the effective date on which such
reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger, transfer,
dissolution, liquidation or winding-up is to take place, and the time, if
any is to be fixed, as of which the holders of record of Common Stock (or
such other stock or securities at the time deliverable upon the exercise of
this Warrant) shall be entitled to exchange their shares of Common Stock
(or such other stock or securities) for securities or other property
deliverable upon such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation,
merger, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up. Such notice shall
be given at least ten (10) days prior to the record date or effective date
for the event specified in such notice.

                                ARTICLE VIII

                               MISCELLANEOUS

         Section 8.01. Amendment and Waiver. The provisions of the Warrant
may be amended and the Company may take any action herein prohibited, or
omit to perform any act herein required to be performed by it upon the
written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding Warrants
exercisable for a majority of the Warrant Shares.

         Section 8.02. Notices. Any notices required to be sent to the
Holder will be delivered to the address of the Holder shown on the books of
the Company. All notices referred to herein will be delivered in person,
sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, or by recognized express courier
(such as Federal Express). Notice will be deemed to have been given upon
personal delivery, one business day after deposit with an express courier
or two business days after deposit in the mail.

         Section 8.03. Descriptive Headings; Governing Law. The descriptive
headings of the paragraphs of this Warrant are inserted for convenience
only and do not constitute a part of this Warrant. The construction,
validity and interpretation of this Warrant will be governed by the laws of
the State of Delaware.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Warrant to be
signed by its duly authorized officer this 8th day of March, 2001.

                                  KFx Inc.


                                  By  /s/ Seth L. Patterson
                                     -------------------------------------
                                  Name:  Seth L. Patterson
                                  Title: Executive Vice President and
                                         Chief Financial Officer



                                 EXHIBIT A

                          WARRANT EXERCISE NOTICE

            (To be executed only upon exercise of the Warrants)



To:      KFx Inc.

         The undersigned irrevocably exercises the Warrants for the
purchase of __________ shares (the "Shares") of Common Stock, par value
$.001 per share, of KFx Inc. (the "Company") and agrees to make payment
therefor [in the amount of $______________] [in accordance with the
cashless exercise provisions of Section 2.01(2) of the within Warrant
Certificate], all on the terms and conditions specified in the within
Warrant Certificate, surrenders this Warrant Certificate and all right,
title and interest therein to the Company and directs that the Shares
deliverable upon the exercise of the Warrants be registered or placed in
the name and at the address specified below and delivered thereto.

Dated: ___________________, 20__.


                                   _________________________________________
                                   (Signature of Owner)

                                   _________________________________________
                                   (Street Address)

                                   _________________________________________
                                   (City)       (State)          (Zip Code)




Securities and/or check to be issued to:


Please insert social security or identifying number:


Name:


Street Address:


City, State and Zip Code:


Any unexercised portion of the Warrants evidenced by the within Warrant
Certificate to be issued to:


Please insert social security or identifying number:


Name:


Street Address:


City, State and Zip Code





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>0007.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.12 - REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
<TEXT>


                          REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT


         This Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and
entered into as of March 8, 2001 by and between KFx Inc., a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"), and William H. Walker ("Holder") to provide
Holder with certain registration rights relative to 166,667 shares of
Common Stock of KFx Inc. that Holder has the right to purchase pursuant to
a warrant provided by the Company to the Holder dated the date hereof (the
"Warrant").

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises
hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I

                               REGISTRATION RIGHTS

         Section 1.01. DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Agreement:

                  (a) Common Shares. The term "Common Shares" means shares
         of Common Stock, $.001 par value, of the Company.

                  (b) Holder. The term "Holder" means any person owning of
         record Registrable Securities that have not been sold to the
         public or sold pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the
         Securities Act, or any assignee of record of such Registrable
         Securities to whom rights under this Agreement have been duly
         assigned in accordance with this Agreement and the Warrant.

                  (c) Registrable Securities or Registrable Shares. The
         terms "Registrable Securities" or "Registrable Shares" means (i)
         all Common Shares of the Company that may hereafter be acquired by
         Holder pursuant to the exercise of the Warrant or any warrant that
         is issued by the Company to Holder as a replacement for all or any
         portion of the Warrant, (ii) all Common Shares of the Company that
         may hereafter be acquired by Holder pursuant to the Stock Purchase
         Agreement dated the date hereof to which the Company and Holder
         are parties, and (iii) any Common Shares of the Company issued as
         (or issuable upon the conversion or exercise of any warrant, right
         or other security which is issued as) a dividend or other
         distribution with respect to, or in exchange for or in replacement
         of, all such Common Shares described in clauses (i) and (ii) of
         this subsection (c); excluding in all cases, however, any
         --------- Registrable Securities sold by a person in a transaction
         in which rights under this Article I are not assigned in
         accordance with this Agreement or any Registrable Securities sold
         to the public or sold pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the
         Securities Act.

                  (d) Registration. The terms "register," "registration"
         and "registered" mean a registration effected by preparing and
         filing a registration statement in compliance with the Securities
         Act and the declaration or ordering of effectiveness of such
         registration statement.

                  (e) Registration Expenses. The term "Registration
         Expenses" means all expenses incurred by the Company in complying
         with Section 1.02 hereof, including, without limitation, all
         registration and filing fees, listing fees, printing expenses,
         fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, blue sky fees
         and expenses, the expense of any special audits incident to or
         required by any such registration (but excluding the compensation
         of regular employees of the Company which shall be paid in any
         event by the Company) and the expenses of underwriters customarily
         paid by similarly situated companies in connection with
         underwritten offerings of equity securities to the public
         (including any qualified independent underwriter required in
         connection with such underwritten offering), excluding any such
         fees based on the proceeds of sales of Registrable Securities by
         selling Holders.

                  (f) Registration Statement. The term "Registration
         Statement" means any registration statement under the Securities
         Act for purposes of effecting a public offering of securities of
         the Company.

                  (g) SEC. The term "SEC" means the U.S. Securities and
         Exchange Commission.

                  (h) Securities Act. The term "Securities Act" means the
         Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.

         Section 1.02. PIGGYBACK REGISTRATIONS.

                  (a) Right to Piggyback. The Company shall notify all
         Holders in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to filing any
         Registration Statement (including, but not limited to,
         Registration Statements relating to secondary offerings of
         securities of the Company, but excluding Registration Statements
         relating to any employee benefit plan or a corporate
         reorganization) and will afford each such Holder an opportunity to
         include in such Registration Statement all or any part of the
         Registrable Securities then held by such Holder. Each Holder
         desiring to include in any such Registration Statement all or any
         part of the Registrable Securities held by such Holder shall,
         within twenty (20) days after receipt of the above-described
         notice from the Company, so notify the Company in writing, and in
         such notice shall inform the Company of the number of Registrable
         Securities such Holder wishes to include in such Registration
         Statement. The Company thereupon will use its best efforts as a
         part of its filing of such Registration Statement to effect the
         registration under the Securities Act of all Registrable
         Securities which the Company has been so requested to register by
         the Holder, to the extent required to permit the disposition of
         the Registrable Securities so to be registered. If a Holder
         decides not to include all of its Registrable Securities in any
         Registration Statement thereafter filed by the Company, such
         Holder shall nevertheless continue to have the right to include
         any Registrable Securities in any subsequent Registration
         Statement or Registration Statements as may be filed by the
         Company with respect to offerings of its securities, all upon the
         terms and conditions set forth herein.

                  (b) Underwriting. If a Registration Statement under which
         the Company gives notice under this Section 1.02 is for an
         underwritten offering, then the Company shall so advise the
         Holders. In such event, the right of any such Holder's Registrable
         Securities to be included in a registration pursuant to this
         Section 1.02 shall be conditioned upon such Holder's participation
         in such underwriting and the inclusion of such Holder's
         Registrable Securities in the underwriting to the extent provided
         herein. All Holders proposing to distribute their Registrable
         Securities through such underwriting shall enter into an
         underwriting agreement in customary form with the managing
         underwriter or underwriter(s) selected for such underwriting.
         Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if the
         managing underwriter(s) determine(s) in good faith that marketing
         factors require a limitation of the number of shares to be
         underwritten, then the managing underwriter(s) may exclude shares
         (including Registrable Securities) from the registration and the
         underwriting, and the number of shares that may be included in the
         registration and the underwriting shall be allocated, first, to
         the Company, and second, the maximum number of Registrable
         Securities requested to be included therein by the Holders and the
         maximum number of any other securities of the same class as the
         Registrable Securities ("Other Securities") requested to be
         included therein by other shareholders of the Company having
         registration rights ("Other Holders"), pro rata among the
         respective Holders and Other Holders on the basis of the number of
         Registrable Securities and Other Securities requested to be
         included in such registration by each such Holder and Other
         Holder. If any Holder disapproves of the terms of any such
         underwriting, such Holder may elect to withdraw all or any part of
         such Holder's Registrable Securities therefrom by written notice
         to the Company and the underwriter, delivered at any time prior to
         the effective date of the Registration Statement. Any Registrable
         Securities excluded or withdrawn from such underwriting shall be
         excluded and withdrawn from the registration. For any Holder that
         is a partnership or corporation, the partners, retired partners
         and shareholders of such Holder, or the estates and family members
         of any such partners and retired partners and any trusts for the
         benefit of any of the foregoing persons shall be deemed to be a
         single "Holder," and any pro rata reduction with respect to such
         "Holder" shall be based upon the aggregate amount of shares
         carrying registration rights owned by all entities and individuals
         included in such "Holder," as defined in this sentence.

                  (c) Expenses. All Registration Expenses incurred in
         connection with a registration pursuant to this Section 1.02 shall
         be borne by the Company, except that notwithstanding anything to
         the contrary herein, if a Holder withdraws all or any part of such
         Holder's Registrable Securities from an underwriting at any time
         less than ten (10) business days prior to the effective date of
         the Registration Statement, such Holder shall pay its pro rata
         share (based on the number of Registrable Securities included in
         the Registration Statement on behalf of such Holder, or if no
         Registration Statement had been filed as of the date of such
         withdrawal, the number of Registrable Securities such Holder
         requested to be included in the Registration Statement) of all
         Registration Expenses, excluding all discounts, commissions or
         other amounts payable to underwriters or brokers in connection
         with the offering. Each Holder participating in a registration
         pursuant to this Section 1.02 shall bear such Holder's
         proportionate share (based on the total number of shares sold in
         such registration) of all discounts, commissions or other amounts
         payable to underwriters or brokers in connection with such
         offering.

         Section 1.03  OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY.  Whenever  required to effect
         the  registration of any Registrable  Securities  under this Agreement,
         the Company shall:

                  (a) Prepare and file with the SEC a Registration
         Statement with respect to such Registrable Securities and use
         reasonable, diligent efforts to cause such Registration Statement
         to become effective.

                  (b) Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and
         supplements to such Registration Statement and the prospectus used
         in connection with such Registration Statement as may be necessary
         to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect
         to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration
         Statement.

                  (c) Furnish to the Holders such number of copies of a
         prospectus, including a preliminary prospectus, in conformity with
         the requirements of the Securities Act and such other documents as
         they may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition
         of the Registrable Securities owned by them that are included in
         such registration.

                  (d) Use reasonable, diligent efforts to register and
         qualify the securities covered by such Registration Statement
         under such other securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions
         as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders, provided that the
         Company shall not be required solely as a result of such
         Registration or as a condition thereto to qualify to do business
         or to file a general consent to service of process in any such
         jurisdictions.

                  (e) In the event of any underwritten public offering,
         enter into and perform its obligations under an underwriting
         agreement, in usual and customary form, with the managing
         underwriter(s) of such offering.

                  (f) Notify each Holder of Registrable Securities covered
         by such Registration Statement at any time when a prospectus
         relating thereto is required to be delivered under the Securities
         Act of the happening of any event as a result of which the
         prospectus included in such Registration Statement, as then in
         effect, includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits
         to state a material fact required to be stated therein or
         necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the
         light of the circumstances then existing, and at the request of
         each Holder promptly prepare and furnish to such Holder a
         reasonable number of copies of a supplement to or amendment of
         such prospectus as may be necessary so that, as thereafter
         delivered to the purchasers of such Registrable Securities, such
         prospectus shall not include an untrue statement of a material
         fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated
         therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading
         in the light of the circumstances then existing.

                  (g) Use its best efforts to list such Registrable
         Securities on each securities exchange on which any equity
         security of the Company is then listed.


         Section 1.04      OBLIGATIONS OF THE HOLDERS.

                  (a) It shall be a condition precedent to the obligations
         of the Company to take any action pursuant to Section 1.02 that
         the selling Holders furnish to the Company such information
         regarding themselves, the Registrable Securities held by them, and
         the intended method of disposition of such securities as is
         required to timely effect the registration of their Registrable
         Securities.

                  (b) Each Holder delivering a written request to
         participate in an underwritten registered offering in accordance
         with Section 1.02 shall, if requested by the Company, as soon as
         practicable after such delivery, execute and deliver to the
         Company a custody agreement and power of attorney in customary
         form satisfactory to the Company and any managing underwriter with
         respect to the Registrable Securities identified for sale by such
         Holder (a "Custody Agreement" and "Power of Attorney,"
         respectively). Each Custody Agreement and Power of Attorney shall
         provide, among other things, that such Holder will deliver to and
         deposit in custody with the custodian named therein (which shall
         be designated by the Company) a certificate or certificates
         representing such Registrable Securities (duly endorsed in blank
         by the registered owner or owners thereof or accompanied by duly
         executed stock powers in blank) and irrevocably appoint such
         custodian and attorney-in-fact with full power and authority to
         act under the Custody Agreement and Power of Attorney,
         respectively, on the Holder's behalf with respect to matters
         specified therein, including the execution and delivery of an
         underwriting agreement.

                  (c) Each Holder that has Registrable Securities included
         in any Registration Statement shall not (until further notice from
         the Company) effect sales thereof after receipt of notice from the
         Company to suspend sales to permit the Company to correct or
         update any Registration Statement, including any prospectus.

         Section 1.05. DELAY OF REGISTRATION. No Holder shall have any
right to obtain or seek an injunction restraining or otherwise delaying any
such registration as the result of any controversy that might arise with
respect to the interpretation or implementation of this Article I.

         Section 1.06 INDEMNIFICATION. In the event any Registrable
Securities are included in a Registration Statement pursuant to Section
1.02:

                  (a) By the Company. To the extent permitted by law, the
         Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Holder, the
         partners, officers, directors, legal counsel and accountants of
         each Holder, any underwriter (as defined in the Securities Act)
         for such Holder and each person, if any, who controls such Holder
         or underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act or the
         Exchange Act against any losses, claims, expenses, damages, or
         liabilities (joint or several) to which they may become subject
         under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any other securities
         or other law of any jurisdiction, common law or otherwise, insofar
         as such losses, claims, expenses, damages, or liabilities (or
         actions proceedings or settlements in respect thereof) arise out
         of or are based upon any of the following statements, omissions or
         violations (collectively, "Violations" and, individually, a
         "Violation"):

                       (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement
                  of a material fact contained in or incorporated by
                  reference in any Registration Statement, including any
                  preliminary prospectus or final prospectus contained
                  therein or any amendments or supplements thereto or any
                  document incorporated by reference therein;

                       (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state
                  therein a material fact required to be stated therein, or
                  necessary to make the statements therein not misleading,
                  or

                       (iii) any violation or alleged violation by the
                  Company of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or any
                  other securities or other law of any jurisdiction, common
                  law or otherwise, or any rule or regulation promulgated
                  under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any such
                  other laws, in connection with the offering covered by
                  such Registration Statement;

         and the Company will reimburse each such Holder, partner, officer
         or director, underwriter or controlling person for any legal or
         other expenses reasonably incurred by them, as incurred, in
         connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim,
         damage, liability or action; provided, however, that the indemnity
         agreement contained in this subsection 1.06(a) shall not apply to
         amounts paid in settlement of any such loss, claim, damage,
         liability or action if such settlement is effected without the
         consent of the Company (which consent shall not be unreasonably
         withheld), nor shall the Company be liable in any such case for
         any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action to the extent
         that it arises out of or is based upon a Violation which occurs in
         reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished
         expressly for use in connection with such registration by such
         Holder, partner, officer, director, underwriter or controlling
         person of such Holder.

                  (b) By Selling Holders. To the extent permitted by law,
         each selling Holder, severally and not jointly, will indemnify and
         hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its
         officers who have signed the Registration Statement, each person,
         if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the
         Securities Act, its legal counsel, its accountants, any
         underwriter and any other Holder selling securities under such
         Registration Statement or any of such other Holder's partners,
         directors or officers or any person who controls such Holder
         within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act,
         against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (joint or
         several) to which the Company or any such director, officer,
         controlling person, legal counsel, accountant, underwriter or
         other such Holder, partner or director, officer or controlling
         person of such other Holder may become subject under the
         Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any other securities or other
         law of any jurisdiction, common law or otherwise, insofar as such
         losses, claims, expenses, damages or liabilities (or actions in
         respect thereto) arise out of or are based upon any Violation, in
         each case to the extent (and only to the extent) that such
         Violation occurs in reliance upon and in conformity with written
         information furnished by such Holder expressly for use in
         connection with such registration; and each such Holder will
         reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the
         Company or any such director, officer, controlling person, legal
         counsel, accountant, underwriter or other Holder, partner,
         officer, director, legal counsel, accountant or controlling person
         of such other Holder in connection with investigating or defending
         any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided,
         however, that the indemnity agreement contained in this subsection
         1.06(b) shall not apply to amounts paid in settlement of any such
         loss, claim, damage, liability or action if such settlement is
         effected without the consent of the Holder, which consent shall
         not be unreasonably withheld; and provided, further, that the
         total amounts payable by a Holder under this Section 1.07 in
         respect of any Violation shall not exceed the net proceeds
         received by such Holder in the registered offering out of which
         such Violation arises.

                  (c) Notice. Promptly after receipt by an indemnified
         party under this Section 1.07 of notice of the commencement of any
         action (including any governmental action), such indemnified party
         will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against any
         indemnifying party under this Section 1.06, deliver to the
         indemnifying party a written notice of the commencement thereof
         and the indemnifying party shall have the right to participate in,
         and, to the extent the indemnifying party so desires, jointly with
         any other indemnifying party similarly noticed, to assume the
         defense thereof with counsel mutually satisfactory to the parties;
         provided, however, that an indemnified party shall have the right
         to retain its own counsel, with the fees and expenses to be paid
         by the indemnifying party, if representation of such indemnified
         party by the counsel retained by the indemnifying party would be
         inappropriate due to actual or potential conflict of interests
         between such indemnified party and any other party represented by
         such counsel in such proceeding or if, and for such period, such
         indemnified party was required to retain counsel prior to the
         indemnifying party's retention of counsel. The failure to deliver
         written notice to the indemnifying party within a reasonable time
         of the commencement of any such action shall relieve such
         indemnifying party of its liability to the indemnified party under
         this Section 1.06 only if and to the extent it is prejudicial to
         its ability to defend such action, and the omission to so deliver
         written notice to the indemnifying party will not relieve it of
         any liability that it may have to any indemnified party otherwise
         than under this Section 1.06.

                  (d) Defect Eliminated in Final Prospectus. The foregoing
         indemnity agreements of the Company and Holders are subject to the
         limitation that, insofar as they relate to any Violation made in a
         preliminary prospectus but eliminated or remedied in the amended
         prospectus on file with the SEC at the time the Registration
         Statement in question becomes effective or the amended prospectus
         filed with the SEC pursuant to SEC Rule 424(b) (the "Final
         Prospectus"), such indemnity agreement shall not inure to the
         benefit of any person if a copy of the Final Prospectus was
         furnished to the indemnified party and was not furnished to the
         person asserting the loss, liability, claim or damage at or prior
         to the time such action is required by the Securities Act.

                  (e) Contribution. In order to provide for just and
         equitable contribution to joint liability under the Securities
         Act, in any case in which either (i) any Holder exercising rights
         under this Agreement, or any controlling person of any such
         Holder, makes a claim for indemnification pursuant to this Section
         1.06 but it is judicially determined (by the entry of a final
         judgment or decree by a court of competent jurisdiction and the
         expiration of time to appeal or the denial of the last right of
         appeal) that such indemnification may not be enforced or is
         otherwise unavailable in such case notwithstanding the fact that
         this Section 1.06 provides for indemnification in such case, or
         (ii) contribution under the Securities Act may be required on the
         part of any such selling Holder or any such controlling person in
         circumstances for which indemnification is provided under this
         Section 1.06; then, and in each such case, the Company and such
         Holder will contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages or
         liabilities to which they may be subject (after contribution from
         others) in such proportion so that such Holder is responsible for
         the portion represented by the percentage that the public offering
         price of its Registrable Securities offered by and sold under the
         Registration Statement bears to the public offering price of all
         securities offered by and sold under such Registration Statement,
         and the Company and other selling Holders are responsible for the
         remaining portion; provided, however, that, in any such case, (A)
         no such Holder will be required to contribute any amount in excess
         of the net proceeds received from the sale of all such Registrable
         Securities offered and sold by such Holder pursuant to such
         Registration Statement; and (B) no person or entity guilty of
         fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f)
         of the Securities Act) will be entitled to contribution from any
         person or entity who was not guilty of such fraudulent
         misrepresentation.

                  (f) Survival; Release. The obligations of the Company and
         Holders under this Section 1.06 shall survive the completion of
         any offering of Registrable Securities in a Registration Statement
         and otherwise. No indemnifying party, in the defense of any such
         claim or litigation, shall, except with the consent of each
         indemnified party, consent to entry of any judgment or enter into
         any settlement which admits fault on behalf of the indemnified
         party or which does not include as an unconditional term thereof
         the giving by the claimant or plaintiff to such indemnified party
         of a release from all liability in respect to such claim or
         litigation.

         Section 1.07. "MARKET STAND-OFF" AGREEMENT. Each Holder hereby
agrees that it shall not, to the extent requested by the Company or an
underwriter of securities of the Company, sell or otherwise transfer or
dispose of any Registrable Securities or other shares of stock of the
Company then owned by such Holder (other than to donees of the Holder who
agree to be similarly bound) for up to ninety (90) days following the
effective date of a Registration Statement of the Company for an
underwritten offering filed under the Securities Act; provided that all
officers and directors of the Company have entered into similar agreements.
In order to enforce the foregoing covenant, the Company shall have the
right to place restrictive legends on the certificates representing the
shares subject to this Section and to impose stop transfer instructions
with respect to the Registrable Securities and such other shares of each
Holder (and the shares or securities of every other person subject to the
foregoing restriction) until the end of such period.

         Section 1.08. TERMINATION OF THE COMPANY'S OBLIGATIONS. The
Company shall have no obligations pursuant to Section 1.02 with respect to
any Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by a Holder in a
registration pursuant to Section 1.02 if, in the opinion of counsel to the
Company, all such Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by a Holder
and all other Common Shares then owned by such Holder may be sold in a
three-month period without registration under the Securities Act pursuant
to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In such event, such Holder shall not
be subject to the provisions of Section 1.07.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 AMENDMENT

         Section 2.01. AMENDMENT. Any provision of this Agreement may be
amended and the observance thereof may be waived (either generally or in a
particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively), only with
the written consent of the Company and Holders holding Registrable
Securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of all the
Registrable Securities (on an as-converted basis). Any amendment or waiver
effected in accordance with this Section 2.01 shall be binding upon each
Holder and the Company.

                                ARTICLE III

                             GENERAL PROVISIONS

         Section 3.01. NOTICES. Any and all notices required or permitted
to be given to a party pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement must be
in writing and will be effective and deemed to provide such party
sufficient notice under this Agreement on the earliest of the following:
(i) at the time of personal delivery, if delivery is in person; (ii) at the
time of transmission by facsimile, addressed to the other party at its
facsimile number, with confirmation of receipt made by both telephone and
printed confirmation sheet verifying successful transmission of the
facsimile; (iii) one (1) business day after deposit with an express
overnight courier for deliveries within a country, or three (3) business
days after such deposit for international deliveries or (iv) three (3)
business days after deposit in mail by certified mail (return receipt
requested) or equivalent for deliveries within a country.

         All notices for international delivery will be sent by facsimile
or by express courier. All notices not delivered personally or by facsimile
will be sent with postage and/or other charges prepaid and properly
addressed to the party to be notified at the following address or facsimile
number:

         Company:          KFx Inc.
                           3300 East First Avenue, Suite 290
                           Denver, Colorado 80206
                           Facsimile:  (303) 293-8430
                           Attention:  Chief Financial Officer

         Holder:           William H. Walker
                           1100 Poydras Street
                           Suite 3500
                           New Orleans, LA  70163


         Any party may by notice so given change its address for future
notices hereunder. Notice shall conclusively be deemed to have been given
in the manner set forth above.

         Section 3.02. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement and the Warrant
constitute and contain the entire agreement and understanding of the
parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and
all prior negotiations, correspondence, agreements, understandings, duties
or obligations between the parties respecting the subject matter hereof.

         Section 3.03. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by,
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.

         Section 3.04. NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. This Agreement shall
be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the parties hereto and
their permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended
to or shall confer upon any other person any legal or equitable right,
benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this
Agreement.

         Section 3.05. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. The provisions of this
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the
successors and permitted assigns of the parties hereto.

         Section 3.06. HEADINGS. The descriptive headings contained in this
Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any
way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

         Section 3.07. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in one
or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same
agreement.

         Section 3.08. EXPENSES. All costs and expenses, including, without
limitation, fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisors and
accountants, incurred in connection with this Agreement and the
transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such
costs and expenses.

         Section 3.09. CONSTRUCTION. Words used herein, regardless of the
gender specifically used, shall be deemed and construed to include any
other gender, masculine, feminine or neuter, as the context requires.

                [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this
Agreement as of the date and year first written above.


                                            THE COMPANY:

                                            KFX INC.


                                            By: /s/ Seth L. Patterson
                                               --------------------------
                                            Name:  Seth L. Patterson
                                            Title: Executive Vice President
                                                   and Chief Financial Officer


                                            HOLDER:


                                            WILLIAM H.  WALKER

                                            /s/ William H. Walker
                                            -----------------------------





             [SIGNATURE PAGE TO REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT]





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>0008.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.13 - CERTIFICATE
<TEXT>



                                  KFX INC.


               66,667 Warrants Each to Purchase One Share of
                          Common Stock of KFx Inc.

                                                       Warrants to Purchase
                                                              66,667 Shares


                  THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT
         BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE
         "ACT"), OR ANY OF THE LAWS OF ANY STATE AND HAVE BEEN ISSUED
         PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT. THE
         SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE OFFERED,
         SOLD OR TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IF (A) COVERED BY AN EFFECTIVE
         REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE ACT AND REGISTERED OR QUALIFIED
         UNDER APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS, OR (B) THE CORPORATION HAS
         BEEN FURNISHED WITH AN OPINION OF COUNSEL REASONABLY ACCEPTABLE TO
         THE CORPORATION TO THE EFFECT THAT NO REGISTRATION OR
         QUALIFICATION IS LEGALLY REQUIRED FOR SUCH TRANSFER.

         FOR VALUE RECEIVED, KFx Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), hereby certifies that Theodore Venners or his registered
assigns as permitted herein (the "Holder") is entitled, subject to the
provisions of this Warrant Certificate, to purchase from the Company, at
the times specified herein, 66,667 fully paid and non-assessable shares of
Common Stock of the Company, par value $.001 per share (the "Common
Stock"), at a purchase price per share equal to the Exercise Price (as
hereinafter defined) (the "Warrants"). The number of shares of Common Stock
to be received upon the exercise of the Warrants are subject to adjustment
from time to time as hereinafter set forth.

                                 ARTICLE I

                                DEFINITIONS

         The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:

         "Act" means the Securities Act of 1933.

         "Board" means the board of directors of the Company.

         "Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other
day on which commercial banks in the City of New York are authorized by law
to close.

         "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.

         "Common Stock" means the Company's common stock, $.001 par value
per share.

         "Exercise Price" means $3.65 per Warrant Share, such Exercise
Price to be adjusted from time to time as provided herein.

         "Expiration Date" means the earlier of (i) 5:00 p.m. Denver,
Colorado time on March 8, 2006, and (ii) the date of its exercise in full.

         "Person" means an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a
limited liability company, a trust, a joint venture, an unincorporated
organization and a government or any department or agency thereof.

         "Warrant Shares" means the shares of Common Stock deliverable upon
exercise of the Warrants, as the number of such shares shall be adjusted
from time to time as provided herein, provided that if there is a change
such that the securities issuable upon exercise of the Warrants are issued
by an entity other than the Company or there is a change in the class of
securities so issuable, then the term "Warrant Shares" will mean the shares
of the security issuable upon exercise of the Warrants if such security is
issuable in shares, or will mean the smallest units in which such security
is issuable if such security is not issuable in shares.

                                 ARTICLE II

         Section 2.01. Exercise of Warrants.

         (1) The Holder is entitled to exercise the Warrants in whole or in
part at any time, or from time to time, until the Expiration Date or, if
such day is not a Business Day, then on the next succeeding day that shall
be a Business Day. To exercise the Warrants, the Holder shall execute and
deliver to the Company a Warrant Exercise Notice substantially in the form
annexed hereto, together with this Warrant Certificate and the payment of
the applicable Exercise Price. Upon such delivery and payment, the Holder
shall be deemed to be the holder of record of the Warrant Shares subject to
such exercise, notwithstanding that the stock transfer books of the Company
shall then be closed or that certificates representing such Warrant Shares
shall not then be actually delivered to the Holder.

         (2) The Exercise Price may be paid in cash or by certified or
official bank check or bank cashier's check payable to the order of the
Company or by any combination of such checks. In addition, the Holder of
this Warrant may exercise this Warrant by surrendering it to the Company to
purchase a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of such
shares then purchasable upon exercise hereof less the number of such shares
equal to the quotient of the aggregate Exercise Price of all such shares
underlying this Warrant divided by the Fair Market Price per Share. Fair
Market Price per Share shall mean the average of the closing sales prices,
if available, or the average of the bid and asked prices for the Common
Stock (or its successor), on the principal market therefor for the five
trading days preceding the day which is one business day prior to the day
of exercise, or if no such price is available, as determined by the Board.
The Company shall pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or
transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of the Warrant
Shares.

         (3) If the Holder exercises the Warrants in part, this Warrant
Certificate shall be surrendered by the Holder to the Company and a new
Warrant Certificate of the same tenor and for the unexercised number of
Warrant Shares shall be executed by the Company. The Company shall register
the new Warrant Certificate in the name of the Holder or in such name or
names of its transferees as may be directed in writing by the Holder and
deliver the new Warrant Certificate to the Person or Persons entitled to
receive the same.

         (4) Upon surrender of this Warrant Certificate in conformity with
the foregoing provisions, the Company shall transfer to the Holder of this
Warrant Certificate appropriate evidence of ownership of the shares of
Common Stock or other securities or property (including any money) to which
the Holder is entitled, registered or otherwise placed in, or payable to
the order of, the name or names of the Holder or such transferee as may be
directed in writing by the Holder, and shall deliver such evidence of
ownership and any other securities or property (including any money) to the
Person or Persons entitled to receive the same, together with the amount in
cash in lieu of any fraction of a share as provided in Section 2.03 below.

         Section 2.02. Restrictive Legend. Certificates representing shares
of Common Stock issued pursuant to the Warrants shall bear a legend
substantially in the form of the legend set forth on the first page of this
Warrant Certificate.

         Section 2.03. Fractional Shares. No fractional shares or scrip
representing fractional shares shall be issued upon the exercise of the
Warrants and in lieu of delivery of any such fractional share upon any
exercise hereof, the Company shall pay to the Holder an amount in cash
equal to such fraction multiplied by the then current market price per
share of Common Stock.

         Section 2.04. Loss or Destruction of Warrant. Upon receipt by the
Company of evidence satisfactory to it (in the exercise of its reasonable
discretion) of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of this Warrant
Certificate, and (in the case of loss, theft or destruction) of reasonably
satisfactory indemnification, and upon surrender and cancellation of this
Warrant Certificate, if mutilated, the Company shall execute and deliver a
new Warrant Certificate of like tenor and date.

         Section 2.05. Forfeiture. Except as otherwise provided in this
Warrant, the Warrants may be exercised at any time through the close of
business on March 8, 2006.

         Section 2.06. Effect of Reorganization, Reclassification,
Consolidation, Merger or Sale. If at any time while this Warrant is
outstanding there shall be any reorganization or reclassification of the
capital stock of the Company (other than a stock split, stock dividend or
other subdivision or combination of shares) or any consolidation or merger
of the Company with another corporation (other than a consolidation or
merger in which the Company is the surviving entity and which does not
result in any change in the Common Stock), or any sale or other disposition
by the Company of all or substantially all of its assets to any other
corporation, the Holder shall thereafter upon exercise of this Warrant be
entitled to receive the number of shares of stock or other securities or
property of the Company, or of the successor corporation resulting from
such consolidation or merger, as the case may be, to which the Warrant
Shares deliverable upon the exercise of this Warrant would have been
entitled upon such reorganization, reclassification of capital stock,
consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition if this Warrant had been
exercised immediately prior to such reorganization, reclassification of
capital stock, consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition. In any
such case, appropriate adjustment (as determined by the Board) shall be
made in the application of the provisions set forth in this Warrant with
respect to the rights and interests thereafter of the Holder to the end
that the provisions set forth in this Warrant (including those relating to
adjustments of the Exercise Price and the number of shares issuable upon
the exercise of this Warrant) shall thereafter be applicable, as near as
reasonably may be, in relation to any shares or other property thereafter
deliverable upon the exercise hereof as if this Warrant had been exercised
immediately prior to such reorganization, reclassification of capital
stock, consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition and the Holder
hereof had carried out the terms of the exchange as provided for by such
reorganization, reclassification of capital stock, consolidation or merger.

         Section 2.07. Adjustments for Stock Events. If at any time there
shall occur any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split or other
subdivision or combination of the Company's Common Stock (a "Stock Event"),
then the number of shares of Common Stock to be received by the holder of
this Warrant shall be appropriately adjusted such that the proportion of
the number of shares issuable hereunder to the total number of shares of
the Company (on a fully diluted basis) prior to such Stock Event is equal
to the proportion of the number of shares issuable hereunder after such
Stock Event to the total number of shares of the Company (on a
fully-diluted basis) after such Stock Event. No adjustment to the Exercise
Price shall be made in connection with any adjustment of the number of
shares of Common Stock receivable upon exercise of this Warrant, except
that the Exercise Price shall be proportionately decreased or increased
upon the occurrence of any Stock Event; however, in no event shall the
Exercise Price be less than the par value of the Common Stock.

         Section 2.08. Reservation of Common Stock. The Company will at all
times reserve and keep available for issuance upon the exercise of the
Warrant such number of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock
as will be sufficient to permit the exercise in full of the Warrant, and
when issued upon such exercise shall be validly issued, fully paid and
nonassessable.

                                ARTICLE III

                              NO VOTING RIGHTS

         Prior to the exercise of any Warrant, the Holder shall not, by
virtue hereof, be entitled to any rights as a stockholder of the Company,
including, without limitation, the right to vote, to receive dividends or
other distributions, to exercise any preemptive rights or to receive any
notice of meeting of stockholders or any notice of any proceedings of the
Company except as may be specifically provided for herein.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                              REPRESENTATIONS

         (a) The Holder of this Warrant acknowledges and represents:

                           (i) that neither this Warrant nor the Warrant
                  Shares have been registered under the Act, or any state
                  securities law and agrees not to sell, pledge,
                  distribute, offer for sale, transfer or otherwise dispose
                  of this Warrant or any Warrant Shares issued upon its
                  exercise in the absence of (A) an effective registration
                  statement as to this Warrant or such Warrant Shares under
                  the Act (or any similar statute then in effect) or any
                  state securities law, or (B) an opinion of counsel for
                  the Company to the effect that such registration is not,
                  under the circumstances, required.

                           (ii) THE OFFER AND SALE OF THE SECURITIES
                  EVIDENCED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED
                  UNDER THE ACT, AND SUCH SECURITIES MAY NOT BE SOLD OR
                  TRANSFERRED UNLESS THERE IS AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION
                  STATEMENT UNDER SUCH ACT COVERING SUCH SALE OR TRANSFER
                  OR THE COMPANY RECEIVES AN OPINION OF COUNSEL (WHICH MAY
                  BE COUNSEL FOR THE COMPANY) STATING THAT SUCH SALE OR
                  TRANSFER IS EXEMPT FROM THE REGISTRATION AND PROSPECTUS
                  DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS OF SUCH ACT.

                           (iii) The Holder is acquiring this Warrant and
                  the Warrant Shares for its own account for investment and
                  not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any
                  distribution thereof; nor with any present intention of
                  distributing or selling the same.

                           (iv) The Holder has made detailed inquiry
                  concerning the Company, its business and its personnel;
                  the officers of the Company have made available to the
                  Holder any and all written information which it has
                  requested and have answered to the Holder's satisfaction
                  all inquiries made by the Holder, and the Holder has
                  sufficient knowledge and experience in investing in
                  companies similar to the Company so as to be able to
                  evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the
                  Company and is able financially to bear the risks
                  thereof.

         (b) The Holder understands that the Company proposes to issue and
         deliver this Warrant and the Warrant Shares to the Holder pursuant
         to this Agreement without compliance with the registration
         requirements of the Act; that for such purpose the Company will
         rely upon the representations, warranties, covenants and
         agreements contained herein; and that such non-compliance with
         registration is not permissible unless such representations and
         warranties are correct and such covenants and agreements
         performed. The Holder is an "accredited investor" as such term is
         defined in Rule 501 under the Act.

         (c) The Holder understands that, under existing rules of the
         Commission, the Holder may be unable to sell this Warrant and the
         Warrant Shares except to the extent that this Warrant and the
         Warrant Shares may be sold (i) pursuant to an effective
         registration statement covering such securities pursuant to the
         Act or (ii) in a bona fide private placement to a purchaser who
         shall be subject to the same restrictions on any resale or (iii)
         subject to the restrictions contained in Rule 144 under the Act.

         (d) The Holder (either alone or together with its advisors) has
         sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business
         matters so as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of
         its investment in this Warrant and the Warrant Shares and the
         Holder is capable of bearing the economic risks of such
         investment.

                                 ARTICLE V

                               NO IMPAIRMENT

         The Company will not, by amendment of its charter or through
reorganization, consolidation, merger, dissolution, sale of assets or any
other voluntary action, avoid or seek to avoid the observance or
performance of any of the terms of this Warrant, but will at all times in
good faith assist in the carrying out of all such terms and in the taking
of all such action as may be necessary or appropriate in order to protect
the rights of the Holder of this Warrant against impairment.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                           LIQUIDATING DIVIDENDS

         If the Company pays a dividend or makes a distribution on the
Common Stock payable otherwise than in cash out of earnings or earned
surplus (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles), except for a stock dividend payable in shares of Common Stock
(a "Liquidating Dividend"), then the Company will pay or distribute to the
holder of this Warrant, upon the exercise hereof, in addition to the
Warrant Shares purchased upon such exercise, the Liquidating Dividend which
would have been paid to such holder if he had been the owner of record of
such shares of Common Stock immediately prior to the date on which a record
is taken for such Liquidating Dividend or, if no record is taken, the date
as of which the record holders of Common Stock entitled to such dividend or
distribution are to be determined.

                                ARTICLE VII

                        NOTICES OF RECORD DATE, ETC.

         In case:

                  (a) the Company shall take a record of the holders of its
         Common Stock (or other stock or securities at the time deliverable
         upon the exercise of this Warrant) for the purpose of entitling or
         enabling them to receive any dividend or other distribution, or to
         receive any other right, or

                  (b) of any capital reorganization of the Company, any
         reclassification of the capital stock of the Company, any
         consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another
         corporation (other than a consolidation or merger in which the
         Company is the surviving entity), or any transfer of all or
         substantially all of the assets of the Company, or

                  (c) of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution,
         liquidation or winding-up of the Company,

then, and in each such case, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed to
the Holder of this Warrant a notice specifying as the case may be, (i) the
date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend,
distribution or right, and stating the amount and character of such
dividend, distribution or right, or (ii) the effective date on which such
reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger, transfer,
dissolution, liquidation or winding-up is to take place, and the time, if
any is to be fixed, as of which the holders of record of Common Stock (or
such other stock or securities at the time deliverable upon the exercise of
this Warrant) shall be entitled to exchange their shares of Common Stock
(or such other stock or securities) for securities or other property
deliverable upon such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation,
merger, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up. Such notice shall
be given at least ten (10) days prior to the record date or effective date
for the event specified in such notice.

                                ARTICLE VIII

                               MISCELLANEOUS

         Section 8.01. Amendment and Waiver. The provisions of the Warrant
may be amended and the Company may take any action herein prohibited, or
omit to perform any act herein required to be performed by it upon the
written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding Warrants
exercisable for a majority of the Warrant Shares.

         Section 8.02. Notices. Any notices required to be sent to the
Holder will be delivered to the address of the Holder shown on the books of
the Company. All notices referred to herein will be delivered in person,
sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, or by recognized express courier
(such as Federal Express). Notice will be deemed to have been given upon
personal delivery, one business day after deposit with an express courier
or two business days after deposit in the mail.

         Section 8.03. Descriptive Headings; Governing Law. The descriptive
headings of the paragraphs of this Warrant are inserted for convenience
only and do not constitute a part of this Warrant. The construction,
validity and interpretation of this Warrant will be governed by the laws of
the State of Delaware.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Warrant to be
signed by its duly authorized officer this 8th day of March, 2001.

                                  KFx Inc.


                                  By  /s/ Seth L. Patterson
                                     --------------------------------------
                                  Name:  Seth L. Patterson
                                  Title: Executive Vice President and
                                         Chief Financial Officer



                                 EXHIBIT A

                          WARRANT EXERCISE NOTICE

            (To be executed only upon exercise of the Warrants)



To:      KFx Inc.

         The undersigned irrevocably exercises the Warrants for the
purchase of __________ shares (the "Shares") of Common Stock, par value
$.001 per share, of KFx Inc. (the "Company") and agrees to make payment
therefor [in the amount of $______________] [in accordance with the
cashless exercise provisions of Section 2.01(2) of the within Warrant
Certificate], all on the terms and conditions specified in the within
Warrant Certificate, surrenders this Warrant Certificate and all right,
title and interest therein to the Company and directs that the Shares
deliverable upon the exercise of the Warrants be registered or placed in
the name and at the address specified below and delivered thereto.

Dated: ___________________, 20__.





                            -----------------------------------------------
                            (Signature of Owner)

                            -----------------------------------------------
                            (Street Address)

                            -----------------------------------------------
                            (City)               (State)         (Zip Code)




Securities and/or check to be issued to:


Please insert social security or identifying number:


Name:


Street Address:


City, State and Zip Code:


Any unexercised portion of the Warrants evidenced by the within Warrant
Certificate to be issued to:


Please insert social security or identifying number:


Name:


Street Address:


City, State and Zip Code




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>0009.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.14 - REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
<TEXT>



                       REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT


         This Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and
entered into as of March 8, 2001 by and between KFx Inc., a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"), and Theodore Venners ("Holder") to provide
Holder with certain registration rights relative to 66,667 shares of Common
Stock of KFx Inc. that Holder has the right to purchase pursuant to a
warrant provided by the Company to the Holder dated the date hereof (the
"Warrant").

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises
hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                            REGISTRATION RIGHTS

         Section 1.01. DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Agreement:

                  (a) Common Shares. The term "Common Shares" means shares
         of Common Stock, $.001 par value, of the Company.

                  (b) Holder. The term "Holder" means any person owning of
         record Registrable Securities that have not been sold to the
         public or sold pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the
         Securities Act, or any assignee of record of such Registrable
         Securities to whom rights under this Agreement have been duly
         assigned in accordance with this Agreement and the Warrant.

                  (c) Registrable Securities or Registrable Shares. The
         terms "Registrable Securities" or "Registrable Shares" means (i)
         all Common Shares of the Company that may hereafter be acquired by
         Holder pursuant to the exercise of the Warrant or any warrant that
         is issued by the Company to Holder as a replacement for all or any
         portion of the Warrant, (ii) all Common Shares of the Company that
         may hereafter be acquired by Holder pursuant to the Stock Purchase
         Agreement dated the date hereof to which the Company and Holder
         are parties, and (iii) any Common Shares of the Company issued as
         (or issuable upon the conversion or exercise of any warrant, right
         or other security which is issued as) a dividend or other
         distribution with respect to, or in exchange for or in replacement
         of, all such Common Shares described in clauses (i) and (ii) of
         this subsection (c); excluding in all cases, however, any
         Registrable Securities sold by a person in a transaction in which
         rights under this Article I are not assigned in accordance with
         this Agreement or any Registrable Securities sold to the public or
         sold pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.

                  (d) Registration. The terms "register," "registration"
         and "registered" mean a registration effected by preparing and
         filing a registration statement in compliance with the Securities
         Act and the declaration or ordering of effectiveness of such
         registration statement.

                  (e) Registration Expenses. The term "Registration
         Expenses" means all expenses incurred by the Company in complying
         with Section 1.02 hereof, including, without limitation, all
         registration and filing fees, listing fees, printing expenses,
         fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, blue sky fees
         and expenses, the expense of any special audits incident to or
         required by any such registration (but excluding the compensation
         of regular employees of the Company which shall be paid in any
         event by the Company) and the expenses of underwriters customarily
         paid by similarly situated companies in connection with
         underwritten offerings of equity securities to the public
         (including any qualified independent underwriter required in
         connection with such underwritten offering), excluding any such
         fees based on the proceeds of sales of Registrable Securities by
         selling Holders.

                  (f) Registration Statement. The term "Registration
         Statement" means any registration statement under the Securities
         Act for purposes of effecting a public offering of securities of
         the Company.

                  (g) SEC. The term "SEC" means the U.S. Securities and
         Exchange Commission.

                  (h) Securities Act. The term "Securities Act" means the
         Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.

         Section 1.02. PIGGYBACK REGISTRATIONS.

                  (a) Right to Piggyback. The Company shall notify all
         Holders in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to filing any
         Registration Statement (including, but not limited to,
         Registration Statements relating to secondary offerings of
         securities of the Company, but excluding Registration Statements
         relating to any employee benefit plan or a corporate
         reorganization) and will afford each such Holder an opportunity to
         include in such Registration Statement all or any part of the
         Registrable Securities then held by such Holder. Each Holder
         desiring to include in any such Registration Statement all or any
         part of the Registrable Securities held by such Holder shall,
         within twenty (20) days after receipt of the above-described
         notice from the Company, so notify the Company in writing, and in
         such notice shall inform the Company of the number of Registrable
         Securities such Holder wishes to include in such Registration
         Statement. The Company thereupon will use its best efforts as a
         part of its filing of such Registration Statement to effect the
         registration under the Securities Act of all Registrable
         Securities which the Company has been so requested to register by
         the Holder, to the extent required to permit the disposition of
         the Registrable Securities so to be registered. If a Holder
         decides not to include all of its Registrable Securities in any
         Registration Statement thereafter filed by the Company, such
         Holder shall nevertheless continue to have the right to include
         any Registrable Securities in any subsequent Registration
         Statement or Registration Statements as may be filed by the
         Company with respect to offerings of its securities, all upon the
         terms and conditions set forth herein.

                  (b) Underwriting. If a Registration Statement under which
         the Company gives notice under this Section 1.02 is for an
         underwritten offering, then the Company shall so advise the
         Holders. In such event, the right of any such Holder's Registrable
         Securities to be included in a registration pursuant to this
         Section 1.02 shall be conditioned upon such Holder's participation
         in such underwriting and the inclusion of such Holder's
         Registrable Securities in the underwriting to the extent provided
         herein. All Holders proposing to distribute their Registrable
         Securities through such underwriting shall enter into an
         underwriting agreement in customary form with the managing
         underwriter or underwriter(s) selected for such underwriting.
         Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if the
         managing underwriter(s) determine(s) in good faith that marketing
         factors require a limitation of the number of shares to be
         underwritten, then the managing underwriter(s) may exclude shares
         (including Registrable Securities) from the registration and the
         underwriting, and the number of shares that may be included in the
         registration and the underwriting shall be allocated, first, to
         the Company, and second, the maximum number of Registrable
         Securities requested to be included ----- ------ therein by the
         Holders and the maximum number of any other securities of the same
         class as the Registrable Securities ("Other Securities") requested
         to be included therein by other shareholders of the Company having
         registration rights ("Other Holders"), pro rata among the
         respective Holders and Other Holders on the basis of the number of
         Registrable Securities and Other Securities requested to be
         included in such registration by each such Holder and Other
         Holder. If any Holder disapproves of the terms of any such
         underwriting, such Holder may elect to withdraw all or any part of
         such Holder's Registrable Securities therefrom by written notice
         to the Company and the underwriter, delivered at any time prior to
         the effective date of the Registration Statement. Any Registrable
         Securities excluded or withdrawn from such underwriting shall be
         excluded and withdrawn from the registration. For any Holder that
         is a partnership or corporation, the partners, retired partners
         and shareholders of such Holder, or the estates and family members
         of any such partners and retired partners and any trusts for the
         benefit of any of the foregoing persons shall be deemed to be a
         single "Holder," and any pro rata reduction with respect to such
         "Holder" shall be based upon the aggregate amount of shares
         carrying registration rights owned by all entities and individuals
         included in such "Holder," as defined in this sentence.

                  (c) Expenses. All Registration Expenses incurred in
         connection with a registration pursuant to this Section 1.02 shall
         be borne by the Company, except that notwithstanding anything to
         the contrary herein, if a Holder withdraws all or any part of such
         Holder's Registrable Securities from an underwriting at any time
         less than ten (10) business days prior to the effective date of
         the Registration Statement, such Holder shall pay its pro rata
         share (based on the number of Registrable Securities included in
         the Registration Statement on behalf of such Holder, or if no
         Registration Statement had been filed as of the date of such
         withdrawal, the number of Registrable Securities such Holder
         requested to be included in the Registration Statement) of all
         Registration Expenses, excluding all discounts, commissions or
         other amounts payable to underwriters or brokers in connection
         with the offering. Each Holder participating in a registration
         pursuant to this Section 1.02 shall bear such Holder's
         proportionate share (based on the total number of shares sold in
         such registration) of all discounts, commissions or other amounts
         payable to underwriters or brokers in connection with such
         offering.

         Section 1.03  OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY.  Whenever  required to effect
         the  registration of any Registrable  Securities  under this Agreement,
         the Company shall:

                  (a) Prepare and file with the SEC a Registration
         Statement with respect to such Registrable Securities and use
         reasonable, diligent efforts to cause such Registration Statement
         to become effective.

                  (b) Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and
         supplements to such Registration Statement and the prospectus used
         in connection with such Registration Statement as may be necessary
         to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect
         to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration
         Statement.

                  (c) Furnish to the Holders such number of copies of a
         prospectus, including a preliminary prospectus, in conformity with
         the requirements of the Securities Act and such other documents as
         they may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition
         of the Registrable Securities owned by them that are included in
         such registration.

                  (d) Use reasonable, diligent efforts to register and
         qualify the securities covered by such Registration Statement
         under such other securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions
         as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders, provided that the
         Company shall not be required solely as a result of such
         Registration or as a condition thereto to qualify to do business
         or to file a general consent to service of process in any such
         jurisdictions.

                  (e) In the event of any underwritten public offering,
         enter into and perform its obligations under an underwriting
         agreement, in usual and customary form, with the managing
         underwriter(s) of such offering.

                  (f) Notify each Holder of Registrable Securities covered
         by such Registration Statement at any time when a prospectus
         relating thereto is required to be delivered under the Securities
         Act of the happening of any event as a result of which the
         prospectus included in such Registration Statement, as then in
         effect, includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits
         to state a material fact required to be stated therein or
         necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the
         light of the circumstances then existing, and at the request of
         each Holder promptly prepare and furnish to such Holder a
         reasonable number of copies of a supplement to or amendment of
         such prospectus as may be necessary so that, as thereafter
         delivered to the purchasers of such Registrable Securities, such
         prospectus shall not include an untrue statement of a material
         fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated
         therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading
         in the light of the circumstances then existing.

                  (g) Use its best efforts to list such Registrable
         Securities on each securities exchange on which any equity
         security of the Company is then listed.


         Section 1.04 OBLIGATIONS OF THE HOLDERS.

                  (a) It shall be a condition precedent to the obligations
         of the Company to take any action pursuant to Section 1.02 that
         the selling Holders furnish to the Company such information
         regarding themselves, the Registrable Securities held by them, and
         the intended method of disposition of such securities as is
         required to timely effect the registration of their Registrable
         Securities.

                  (b) Each Holder delivering a written request to
         participate in an underwritten registered offering in accordance
         with Section 1.02 shall, if requested by the Company, as soon as
         practicable after such delivery, execute and deliver to the
         Company a custody agreement and power of attorney in customary
         form satisfactory to the Company and any managing underwriter with
         respect to the Registrable Securities identified for sale by such
         Holder (a "Custody Agreement" and "Power of Attorney,"
         respectively). Each Custody Agreement and Power of Attorney shall
         provide, among other things, that such Holder will deliver to and
         deposit in custody with the custodian named therein (which shall
         be designated by the Company) a certificate or certificates
         representing such Registrable Securities (duly endorsed in blank
         by the registered owner or owners thereof or accompanied by duly
         executed stock powers in blank) and irrevocably appoint such
         custodian and attorney-in-fact with full power and authority to
         act under the Custody Agreement and Power of Attorney,
         respectively, on the Holder's behalf with respect to matters
         specified therein, including the execution and delivery of an
         underwriting agreement.

                  (c) Each Holder that has Registrable Securities included
         in any Registration Statement shall not (until further notice from
         the Company) effect sales thereof after receipt of notice from the
         Company to suspend sales to permit the Company to correct or
         update any Registration Statement, including any prospectus.

         Section 1.05. DELAY OF REGISTRATION.  No Holder shall have any right to
         obtain or seek an injunction restraining or otherwise delaying any such
         registration  as the result of any  controversy  that might  arise with
         respect to the interpretation or implementation of this Article I.

         Section 1.06 INDEMNIFICATION.  In the event any Registrable  Securities
         are included in a Registration Statement pursuant to Section 1.02:

                  (a) By the Company. To the extent permitted by law, the
         Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Holder, the
         partners, officers, directors, legal counsel and accountants of
         each Holder, any underwriter (as defined in the Securities Act)
         for such Holder and each person, if any, who controls such Holder
         or underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act or the
         Exchange Act against any losses, claims, expenses, damages, or
         liabilities (joint or several) to which they may become subject
         under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any other securities
         or other law of any jurisdiction, common law or otherwise, insofar
         as such losses, claims, expenses, damages, or liabilities (or
         actions proceedings or settlements in respect thereof) arise out
         of or are based upon any of the following statements, omissions or
         violations (collectively, "Violations" and, individually, a
         "Violation"):

                       (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement
                  of a material fact contained in or incorporated by
                  reference in any Registration Statement, including any
                  preliminary prospectus or final prospectus contained
                  therein or any amendments or supplements thereto or any
                  document incorporated by reference therein;

                       (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state
                  therein a material fact required to be stated therein, or
                  necessary to make the statements therein not misleading,
                  or

                       (iii) any violation or alleged violation by the
                  Company of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or any
                  other securities or other law of any jurisdiction, common
                  law or otherwise, or any rule or regulation promulgated
                  under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any such
                  other laws, in connection with the offering covered by
                  such Registration Statement;

         and the Company will reimburse each such Holder, partner, officer
         or director, underwriter or controlling person for any legal or
         other expenses reasonably incurred by them, as incurred, in
         connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim,
         damage, liability or action; provided, however, that the indemnity
         agreement contained in this subsection 1.06(a) shall not apply to
         amounts paid in settlement of any such loss, claim, damage,
         liability or action if such settlement is effected without the
         consent of the Company (which consent shall not be unreasonably
         withheld), nor shall the Company be liable in any such case for
         any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action to the extent
         that it arises out of or is based upon a Violation which occurs in
         reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished
         expressly for use in connection with such registration by such
         Holder, partner, officer, director, underwriter or controlling
         person of such Holder.

                  (b) By Selling Holders. To the extent permitted by law,
         each selling Holder, severally and not jointly, will indemnify and
         hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its
         officers who have signed the Registration Statement, each person,
         if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the
         Securities Act, its legal counsel, its accountants, any
         underwriter and any other Holder selling securities under such
         Registration Statement or any of such other Holder's partners,
         directors or officers or any person who controls such Holder
         within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act,
         against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (joint or
         several) to which the Company or any such director, officer,
         controlling person, legal counsel, accountant, underwriter or
         other such Holder, partner or director, officer or controlling
         person of such other Holder may become subject under the
         Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any other securities or other
         law of any jurisdiction, common law or otherwise, insofar as such
         losses, claims, expenses, damages or liabilities (or actions in
         respect thereto) arise out of or are based upon any Violation, in
         each case to the extent (and only to the extent) that such
         Violation occurs in reliance upon and in conformity with written
         information furnished by such Holder expressly for use in
         connection with such registration; and each such Holder will
         reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the
         Company or any such director, officer, controlling person, legal
         counsel, accountant, underwriter or other Holder, partner,
         officer, director, legal counsel, accountant or controlling person
         of such other Holder in connection with investigating or defending
         any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided,
         however, that the indemnity agreement contained in this subsection
         1.06(b) shall not apply to amounts paid in settlement of any such
         loss, claim, damage, liability or action if such settlement is
         effected without the consent of the Holder, which consent shall
         not be unreasonably withheld; and provided, further, that the
         total amounts payable by a Holder under this Section 1.07 in
         respect of any Violation shall not exceed the net proceeds
         received by such Holder in the registered offering out of which
         such Violation arises.

                  (c) Notice. Promptly after receipt by an indemnified
         party under this Section 1.07 of notice of the commencement of any
         action (including any governmental action), such indemnified party
         will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against any
         indemnifying party under this Section 1.06, deliver to the
         indemnifying party a written notice of the commencement thereof
         and the indemnifying party shall have the right to participate in,
         and, to the extent the indemnifying party so desires, jointly with
         any other indemnifying party similarly noticed, to assume the
         defense thereof with counsel mutually satisfactory to the parties;
         provided, however, that an indemnified party shall have the right
         to retain its own counsel, with the fees and expenses to be paid
         by the indemnifying party, if representation of such indemnified
         party by the counsel retained by the indemnifying party would be
         inappropriate due to actual or potential conflict of interests
         between such indemnified party and any other party represented by
         such counsel in such proceeding or if, and for such period, such
         indemnified party was required to retain counsel prior to the
         indemnifying party's retention of counsel. The failure to deliver
         written notice to the indemnifying party within a reasonable time
         of the commencement of any such action shall relieve such
         indemnifying party of its liability to the indemnified party under
         this Section 1.06 only if and to the extent it is prejudicial to
         its ability to defend such action, and the omission to so deliver
         written notice to the indemnifying party will not relieve it of
         any liability that it may have to any indemnified party otherwise
         than under this Section 1.06.

                  (d)  Defect  Eliminated  in Final  Prospectus.  The  foregoing
         indemnity  agreements  of the  Company  and  Holders are subject to the
         limitation  that,  insofar as they  relate to any  Violation  made in a
         preliminary  prospectus  but  eliminated  or  remedied  in the  amended
         prospectus on file with the SEC at the time the Registration  Statement
         in question becomes effective or the amended  prospectus filed with the
         SEC  pursuant  to  SEC  Rule  424(b)  (the  "Final  Prospectus"),  such
         indemnity  agreement  shall not inure to the benefit of any person if a
         copy of the Final Prospectus was furnished to the indemnified party and
         was not furnished to the person asserting the loss, liability, claim or
         damage  at or  prior  to  the  time  such  action  is  required  by the
         Securities Act.

                  (e) Contribution. In order to provide for just and
         equitable contribution to joint liability under the Securities
         Act, in any case in which either (i) any Holder exercising rights
         under this Agreement, or any controlling person of any such
         Holder, makes a claim for indemnification pursuant to this Section
         1.06 but it is judicially determined (by the entry of a final
         judgment or decree by a court of competent jurisdiction and the
         expiration of time to appeal or the denial of the last right of
         appeal) that such indemnification may not be enforced or is
         otherwise unavailable in such case notwithstanding the fact that
         this Section 1.06 provides for indemnification in such case, or
         (ii) contribution under the Securities Act may be required on the
         part of any such selling Holder or any such controlling person in
         circumstances for which indemnification is provided under this
         Section 1.06; then, and in each such case, the Company and such
         Holder will contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages or
         liabilities to which they may be subject (after contribution from
         others) in such proportion so that such Holder is responsible for
         the portion represented by the percentage that the public offering
         price of its Registrable Securities offered by and sold under the
         Registration Statement bears to the public offering price of all
         securities offered by and sold under such Registration Statement,
         and the Company and other selling Holders are responsible for the
         remaining portion; provided, however, that, in any such case, (A)
         no such Holder will be required to contribute any amount in excess
         of the net proceeds received from the sale of all such Registrable
         Securities offered and sold by such Holder pursuant to such
         Registration Statement; and (B) no person or entity guilty of
         fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f)
         of the Securities Act) will be entitled to contribution from any
         person or entity who was not guilty of such fraudulent
         misrepresentation.

                  (f) Survival; Release. The obligations of the Company and
         Holders under this Section 1.06 shall survive the completion of
         any offering of Registrable Securities in a Registration Statement
         and otherwise. No indemnifying party, in the defense of any such
         claim or litigation, shall, except with the consent of each
         indemnified party, consent to entry of any judgment or enter into
         any settlement which admits fault on behalf of the indemnified
         party or which does not include as an unconditional term thereof
         the giving by the claimant or plaintiff to such indemnified party
         of a release from all liability in respect to such claim or
         litigation.

         Section 1.07. "MARKET STAND-OFF" AGREEMENT. Each Holder hereby
agrees that it shall not, to the extent requested by the Company or an
underwriter of securities of the Company, sell or otherwise transfer or
dispose of any Registrable Securities or other shares of stock of the
Company then owned by such Holder (other than to donees of the Holder who
agree to be similarly bound) for up to ninety (90) days following the
effective date of a Registration Statement of the Company for an
underwritten offering filed under the Securities Act; provided that all
officers and directors of the Company have entered into similar agreements.
In order to enforce the foregoing covenant, the Company shall have the
right to place restrictive legends on the certificates representing the
shares subject to this Section and to impose stop transfer instructions
with respect to the Registrable Securities and such other shares of each
Holder (and the shares or securities of every other person subject to the
foregoing restriction) until the end of such period.

         Section 1.08. TERMINATION OF THE COMPANY'S OBLIGATIONS. The
Company shall have no obligations pursuant to Section 1.02 with respect to
any Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by a Holder in a
registration pursuant to Section 1.02 if, in the opinion of counsel to the
Company, all such Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by a Holder
and all other Common Shares then owned by such Holder may be sold in a
three-month period without registration under the Securities Act pursuant
to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In such event, such Holder shall not
be subject to the provisions of Section 1.07.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 AMENDMENT

         Section 2.01. AMENDMENT. Any provision of this Agreement may be
amended and the observance thereof may be waived (either generally or in a
particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively), only with
the written consent of the Company and Holders holding Registrable
Securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of all the
Registrable Securities (on an as-converted basis). Any amendment or waiver
effected in accordance with this Section 2.01 shall be binding upon each
Holder and the Company.

                                ARTICLE III

                             GENERAL PROVISIONS

         Section 3.01. NOTICES. Any and all notices required or permitted
to be given to a party pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement must be
in writing and will be effective and deemed to provide such party
sufficient notice under this Agreement on the earliest of the following:
(i) at the time of personal delivery, if delivery is in person; (ii) at the
time of transmission by facsimile, addressed to the other party at its
facsimile number, with confirmation of receipt made by both telephone and
printed confirmation sheet verifying successful transmission of the
facsimile; (iii) one (1) business day after deposit with an express
overnight courier for deliveries within a country, or three (3) business
days after such deposit for international deliveries or (iv) three (3)
business days after deposit in mail by certified mail (return receipt
requested) or equivalent for deliveries within a country.

         All notices for international delivery will be sent by facsimile
or by express courier. All notices not delivered personally or by facsimile
will be sent with postage and/or other charges prepaid and properly
addressed to the party to be notified at the following address or facsimile
number:

         Company:          KFx Inc.
                           3300 East First Avenue, Suite 290
                           Denver, Colorado 80206
                           Facsimile:  (303) 293-8430
                           Attention:  Chief Financial Officer

         Holder:           Theodore Venners
                           3300 East First Avenue
                           Suite 290
                           Denver, CO  80206


         Any party may by notice so given change its address for future
notices hereunder. Notice shall conclusively be deemed to have been given
in the manner set forth above.

         Section 3.02. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement and the Warrant
constitute and contain the entire agreement and understanding of the
parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and
all prior negotiations, correspondence, agreements, understandings, duties
or obligations between the parties respecting the subject matter hereof.

         Section 3.03. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by,
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.

         Section 3.04. NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. This Agreement shall
be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the parties hereto and
their permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended
to or shall confer upon any other person any legal or equitable right,
benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this
Agreement.

         Section 3.05. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. The provisions of this
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the
successors and permitted assigns of the parties hereto.

         Section 3.06. HEADINGS. The descriptive headings contained in this
Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any
way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

         Section 3.07. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in one
or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same
agreement.

         Section 3.08. EXPENSES. All costs and expenses, including, without
limitation, fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisors and
accountants, incurred in connection with this Agreement and the
transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such
costs and expenses.

         Section 3.09. CONSTRUCTION. Words used herein, regardless of the
gender specifically used, shall be deemed and construed to include any
other gender, masculine, feminine or neuter, as the context requires.


                [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]




         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this
Agreement as of the date and year first written above.


                                            THE COMPANY:

                                            KFX INC.


                                            By: /s/ Seth L. Patterson
                                                ------------------------------
                                            Name:  Seth L. Patterson
                                            Title: Executive Vice President
                                                   and Chief Financial Officer


                                            HOLDER:


                                            THEODORE VENNERS


                                            /s/ Theodore Venners
                                            -----------------------------





             [SIGNATURE PAGE TO REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT]




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>0010.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.15 - CERTIFICATE
<TEXT>



                                  KFX INC.


               33,333 Warrants Each to Purchase One Share of
                          Common Stock of KFx Inc.

                                                       Warrants to Purchase
                                                              33,333 Shares


                  THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT
         BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE
         "ACT"), OR ANY OF THE LAWS OF ANY STATE AND HAVE BEEN ISSUED
         PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT. THE
         SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE OFFERED,
         SOLD OR TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IF (A) COVERED BY AN EFFECTIVE
         REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE ACT AND REGISTERED OR QUALIFIED
         UNDER APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS, OR (B) THE CORPORATION HAS
         BEEN FURNISHED WITH AN OPINION OF COUNSEL REASONABLY ACCEPTABLE TO
         THE CORPORATION TO THE EFFECT THAT NO REGISTRATION OR
         QUALIFICATION IS LEGALLY REQUIRED FOR SUCH TRANSFER.

         FOR VALUE RECEIVED, KFx Inc., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), hereby certifies that Mark S. Sexton , or his registered
assigns as permitted herein (the "Holder") is entitled, subject to the
provisions of this Warrant Certificate, to purchase from the Company, at
the times specified herein, 33,333 fully paid and non-assessable shares of
Common Stock of the Company, par value $.001 per share (the "Common
Stock"), at a purchase price per share equal to the Exercise Price (as
hereinafter defined) (the "Warrants"). The number of shares of Common Stock
to be received upon the exercise of the Warrants are subject to adjustment
from time to time as hereinafter set forth.

                                 ARTICLE I

                                DEFINITIONS

         The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:

         "Act" means the Securities Act of 1933.

         "Board" means the board of directors of the Company.

         "Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other
day on which commercial banks in the City of New York are authorized by law
to close.

         "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.

         "Common Stock" means the Company's common stock, $.001 par value
per share.

         "Exercise Price" means $3.65 per Warrant Share, such Exercise
Price to be adjusted from time to time as provided herein.

         "Expiration Date" means the earlier of (i) 5:00 p.m. Denver,
Colorado time on April 9, 2006 , and (ii) the date of its exercise in full.

         "Person" means an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a
limited liability company, a trust, a joint venture, an unincorporated
organization and a government or any department or agency thereof.

         "Warrant Shares" means the shares of Common Stock deliverable upon
exercise of the Warrants, as the number of such shares shall be adjusted
from time to time as provided herein, provided that if there is a change
such that the securities issuable upon exercise of the Warrants are issued
by an entity other than the Company or there is a change in the class of
securities so issuable, then the term "Warrant Shares" will mean the shares
of the security issuable upon exercise of the Warrants if such security is
issuable in shares, or will mean the smallest units in which such security
is issuable if such security is not issuable in shares.

                                 ARTICLE II

         Section 2.01. Exercise of Warrants.

         (1) The Holder is entitled to exercise the Warrants in whole or in
part at any time, or from time to time, until the Expiration Date or, if
such day is not a Business Day, then on the next succeeding day that shall
be a Business Day. To exercise the Warrants, the Holder shall execute and
deliver to the Company a Warrant Exercise Notice substantially in the form
annexed hereto, together with this Warrant Certificate and the payment of
the applicable Exercise Price. Upon such delivery and payment, the Holder
shall be deemed to be the holder of record of the Warrant Shares subject to
such exercise, notwithstanding that the stock transfer books of the Company
shall then be closed or that certificates representing such Warrant Shares
shall not then be actually delivered to the Holder.

         (2) The Exercise Price may be paid in cash or by certified or
official bank check or bank cashier's check payable to the order of the
Company or by any combination of such checks. In addition, the Holder of
this Warrant may exercise this Warrant by surrendering it to the Company to
purchase a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of such
shares then purchasable upon exercise hereof less the number of such shares
equal to the quotient of the aggregate Exercise Price of all such shares
underlying this Warrant divided by the Fair Market Price per Share. Fair
Market Price per Share shall mean the average of the closing sales prices,
if available, or the average of the bid and asked prices for the Common
Stock (or its successor), on the principal market therefor for the five
trading days preceding the day which is one business day prior to the day
of exercise, or if no such price is available, as determined by the Board.
The Company shall pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or
transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of the Warrant
Shares.

         (3) If the Holder exercises the Warrants in part, this Warrant
Certificate shall be surrendered by the Holder to the Company and a new
Warrant Certificate of the same tenor and for the unexercised number of
Warrant Shares shall be executed by the Company. The Company shall register
the new Warrant Certificate in the name of the Holder or in such name or
names of its transferees as may be directed in writing by the Holder and
deliver the new Warrant Certificate to the Person or Persons entitled to
receive the same.

         (4) Upon surrender of this Warrant Certificate in conformity with
the foregoing provisions, the Company shall transfer to the Holder of this
Warrant Certificate appropriate evidence of ownership of the shares of
Common Stock or other securities or property (including any money) to which
the Holder is entitled, registered or otherwise placed in, or payable to
the order of, the name or names of the Holder or such transferee as may be
directed in writing by the Holder, and shall deliver such evidence of
ownership and any other securities or property (including any money) to the
Person or Persons entitled to receive the same, together with the amount in
cash in lieu of any fraction of a share as provided in Section 2.03 below.

         Section 2.02. Restrictive Legend. Certificates representing shares
of Common Stock issued pursuant to the Warrants shall bear a legend
substantially in the form of the legend set forth on the first page of this
Warrant Certificate.

         Section 2.03. Fractional Shares. No fractional shares or scrip
representing fractional shares shall be issued upon the exercise of the
Warrants and in lieu of delivery of any such fractional share upon any
exercise hereof, the Company shall pay to the Holder an amount in cash
equal to such fraction multiplied by the then current market price per
share of Common Stock.

         Section 2.04. Loss or Destruction of Warrant. Upon receipt by the
Company of evidence satisfactory to it (in the exercise of its reasonable
discretion) of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of this Warrant
Certificate, and (in the case of loss, theft or destruction) of reasonably
satisfactory indemnification, and upon surrender and cancellation of this
Warrant Certificate, if mutilated, the Company shall execute and deliver a
new Warrant Certificate of like tenor and date.

         Section 2.05. Forfeiture. Except as otherwise provided in this
Warrant, the Warrants may be exercised at any time through the close of
business on April 9, 2006.

         Section 2.06. Effect of Reorganization, Reclassification,
Consolidation, Merger or Sale. If at any time while this Warrant is
outstanding there shall be any reorganization or reclassification of the
capital stock of the Company (other than a stock split, stock dividend or
other subdivision or combination of shares) or any consolidation or merger
of the Company with another corporation (other than a consolidation or
merger in which the Company is the surviving entity and which does not
result in any change in the Common Stock), or any sale or other disposition
by the Company of all or substantially all of its assets to any other
corporation, the Holder shall thereafter upon exercise of this Warrant be
entitled to receive the number of shares of stock or other securities or
property of the Company, or of the successor corporation resulting from
such consolidation or merger, as the case may be, to which the Warrant
Shares deliverable upon the exercise of this Warrant would have been
entitled upon such reorganization, reclassification of capital stock,
consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition if this Warrant had been
exercised immediately prior to such reorganization, reclassification of
capital stock, consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition. In any
such case, appropriate adjustment (as determined by the Board) shall be
made in the application of the provisions set forth in this Warrant with
respect to the rights and interests thereafter of the Holder to the end
that the provisions set forth in this Warrant (including those relating to
adjustments of the Exercise Price and the number of shares issuable upon
the exercise of this Warrant) shall thereafter be applicable, as near as
reasonably may be, in relation to any shares or other property thereafter
deliverable upon the exercise hereof as if this Warrant had been exercised
immediately prior to such reorganization, reclassification of capital
stock, consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition and the Holder
hereof had carried out the terms of the exchange as provided for by such
reorganization, reclassification of capital stock, consolidation or merger.

         Section 2.07. Adjustments for Stock Events. If at any time there
shall occur any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split or other
subdivision or combination of the Company's Common Stock (a "Stock Event"),
then the number of shares of Common Stock to be received by the holder of
this Warrant shall be appropriately adjusted such that the proportion of
the number of shares issuable hereunder to the total number of shares of
the Company (on a fully diluted basis) prior to such Stock Event is equal
to the proportion of the number of shares issuable hereunder after such
Stock Event to the total number of shares of the Company (on a
fully-diluted basis) after such Stock Event. No adjustment to the Exercise
Price shall be made in connection with any adjustment of the number of
shares of Common Stock receivable upon exercise of this Warrant, except
that the Exercise Price shall be proportionately decreased or increased
upon the occurrence of any Stock Event; however, in no event shall the
Exercise Price be less than the par value of the Common Stock.

         Section 2.08. Reservation of Common Stock. The Company will at all
times reserve and keep available for issuance upon the exercise of the
Warrant such number of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock
as will be sufficient to permit the exercise in full of the Warrant, and
when issued upon such exercise shall be validly issued, fully paid and
nonassessable.

                                ARTICLE III

                              NO VOTING RIGHTS

         Prior to the exercise of any Warrant, the Holder shall not, by
virtue hereof, be entitled to any rights as a stockholder of the Company,
including, without limitation, the right to vote, to receive dividends or
other distributions, to exercise any preemptive rights or to receive any
notice of meeting of stockholders or any notice of any proceedings of the
Company except as may be specifically provided for herein.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                              REPRESENTATIONS

         (a) The Holder of this Warrant acknowledges and represents:

                           (i) that neither this Warrant nor the Warrant
                  Shares have been registered under the Act, or any state
                  securities law and agrees not to sell, pledge,
                  distribute, offer for sale, transfer or otherwise dispose
                  of this Warrant or any Warrant Shares issued upon its
                  exercise in the absence of (A) an effective registration
                  statement as to this Warrant or such Warrant Shares under
                  the Act (or any similar statute then in effect) or any
                  state securities law, or (B) an opinion of counsel for
                  the Company to the effect that such registration is not,
                  under the circumstances, required.

                           (ii) THE OFFER AND SALE OF THE SECURITIES
                  EVIDENCED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED
                  UNDER THE ACT, AND SUCH SECURITIES MAY NOT BE SOLD OR
                  TRANSFERRED UNLESS THERE IS AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION
                  STATEMENT UNDER SUCH ACT COVERING SUCH SALE OR TRANSFER
                  OR THE COMPANY RECEIVES AN OPINION OF COUNSEL (WHICH MAY
                  BE COUNSEL FOR THE COMPANY) STATING THAT SUCH SALE OR
                  TRANSFER IS EXEMPT FROM THE REGISTRATION AND PROSPECTUS
                  DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS OF SUCH ACT.

                           (iii) The Holder is acquiring this Warrant and
                  the Warrant Shares for its own account for investment and
                  not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any
                  distribution thereof; nor with any present intention of
                  distributing or selling the same.

                           (iv) The Holder has made detailed inquiry
                  concerning the Company, its business and its personnel;
                  the officers of the Company have made available to the
                  Holder any and all written information which it has
                  requested and have answered to the Holder's satisfaction
                  all inquiries made by the Holder, and the Holder has
                  sufficient knowledge and experience in investing in
                  companies similar to the Company so as to be able to
                  evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the
                  Company and is able financially to bear the risks
                  thereof.

         (b) The Holder understands that the Company proposes to issue and
         deliver this Warrant and the Warrant Shares to the Holder pursuant
         to this Agreement without compliance with the registration
         requirements of the Act; that for such purpose the Company will
         rely upon the representations, warranties, covenants and
         agreements contained herein; and that such non-compliance with
         registration is not permissible unless such representations and
         warranties are correct and such covenants and agreements
         performed. The Holder is an "accredited investor" as such term is
         defined in Rule 501 under the Act.

         (c) The Holder understands that, under existing rules of the
         Commission, the Holder may be unable to sell this Warrant and the
         Warrant Shares except to the extent that this Warrant and the
         Warrant Shares may be sold (i) pursuant to an effective
         registration statement covering such securities pursuant to the
         Act or (ii) in a bona fide private placement to a purchaser who
         shall be subject to the same restrictions on any resale or (iii)
         subject to the restrictions contained in Rule 144 under the Act.

         (d) The Holder (either alone or together with its advisors) has
         sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and business
         matters so as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of
         its investment in this Warrant and the Warrant Shares and the
         Holder is capable of bearing the economic risks of such
         investment.

                                 ARTICLE V

                               NO IMPAIRMENT

         The Company will not, by amendment of its charter or through
reorganization, consolidation, merger, dissolution, sale of assets or any
other voluntary action, avoid or seek to avoid the observance or
performance of any of the terms of this Warrant, but will at all times in
good faith assist in the carrying out of all such terms and in the taking
of all such action as may be necessary or appropriate in order to protect
the rights of the Holder of this Warrant against impairment.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                           LIQUIDATING DIVIDENDS

         If the Company pays a dividend or makes a distribution on the
Common Stock payable otherwise than in cash out of earnings or earned
surplus (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles), except for a stock dividend payable in shares of Common Stock
(a "Liquidating Dividend"), then the Company will pay or distribute to the
holder of this Warrant, upon the exercise hereof, in addition to the
Warrant Shares purchased upon such exercise, the Liquidating Dividend which
would have been paid to such holder if he had been the owner of record of
such shares of Common Stock immediately prior to the date on which a record
is taken for such Liquidating Dividend or, if no record is taken, the date
as of which the record holders of Common Stock entitled to such dividend or
distribution are to be determined.

                                ARTICLE VII

                        NOTICES OF RECORD DATE, ETC.

         In case:

                  (a) the Company shall take a record of the holders of its
         Common Stock (or other stock or securities at the time deliverable
         upon the exercise of this Warrant) for the purpose of entitling or
         enabling them to receive any dividend or other distribution, or to
         receive any other right, or

                  (b) of any capital reorganization of the Company, any
         reclassification of the capital stock of the Company, any
         consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another
         corporation (other than a consolidation or merger in which the
         Company is the surviving entity), or any transfer of all or
         substantially all of the assets of the Company, or

                  (c) of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution,
         liquidation or winding-up of the Company,

then, and in each such case, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed to
the Holder of this Warrant a notice specifying as the case may be, (i) the
date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend,
distribution or right, and stating the amount and character of such
dividend, distribution or right, or (ii) the effective date on which such
reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger, transfer,
dissolution, liquidation or winding-up is to take place, and the time, if
any is to be fixed, as of which the holders of record of Common Stock (or
such other stock or securities at the time deliverable upon the exercise of
this Warrant) shall be entitled to exchange their shares of Common Stock
(or such other stock or securities) for securities or other property
deliverable upon such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation,
merger, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up. Such notice shall
be given at least ten (10) days prior to the record date or effective date
for the event specified in such notice.

                                ARTICLE VIII

                               MISCELLANEOUS

         Section 8.01. Amendment and Waiver. The provisions of the Warrant
may be amended and the Company may take any action herein prohibited, or
omit to perform any act herein required to be performed by it upon the
written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding Warrants
exercisable for a majority of the Warrant Shares.

         Section 8.02. Notices. Any notices required to be sent to the
Holder will be delivered to the address of the Holder shown on the books of
the Company. All notices referred to herein will be delivered in person,
sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, or by recognized express courier
(such as Federal Express). Notice will be deemed to have been given upon
personal delivery, one business day after deposit with an express courier
or two business days after deposit in the mail.

         Section 8.03. Descriptive Headings; Governing Law. The descriptive
headings of the paragraphs of this Warrant are inserted for convenience
only and do not constitute a part of this Warrant. The construction,
validity and interpretation of this Warrant will be governed by the laws of
the State of Delaware.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Warrant to be
signed by its duly authorized officer this 10th day of April, 2001.

                                      KFx Inc.


                                      By /s/ Seth L. Patterson
                                         -----------------------------
                                      Name:  Seth L. Patterson
                                      Title: Executive Vice President &
                                             Chief Financial Officer



                                 EXHIBIT A

                          WARRANT EXERCISE NOTICE

            (To be executed only upon exercise of the Warrants)



To:      KFx Inc.

         The undersigned irrevocably exercises the Warrants for the
purchase of __________ shares (the "Shares") of Common Stock, par value
$.001 per share, of KFx Inc. (the "Company") and agrees to make payment
therefor [in the amount of $______________] [in accordance with the
cashless exercise provisions of Section 2.01(2) of the within Warrant
Certificate], all on the terms and conditions specified in the within
Warrant Certificate, surrenders this Warrant Certificate and all right,
title and interest therein to the Company and directs that the Shares
deliverable upon the exercise of the Warrants be registered or placed in
the name and at the address specified below and delivered thereto.

Dated: ________________, 20__.




                                          (Signature of Owner)


                                          (Street Address)


                                          (City)        (State)     (Zip Code)




Securities and/or check to be issued to:


Please insert social security or identifying number:


Name:


Street Address:


City, State and Zip Code:


Any unexercised portion of the Warrants evidenced by the within Warrant
Certificate to be issued to:


Please insert social security or identifying number:


Name:


Street Address:


City, State and Zip Code:



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>0011.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.16 - REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
<TEXT>



                       REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT


         This Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and
entered into as of April 10, 2001 by and between KFx Inc., a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"), and Mark S. Sexton ("Holder") to provide
Holder with certain registration rights relative to 33,333 shares of Common
Stock of KFx Inc. that Holder has the right to purchase pursuant to a
warrant provided by the Company to the Holder dated the date hereof (the
"Warrant").

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises
hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                            REGISTRATION RIGHTS

         Section 1.01. DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Agreement:

                  (a) Common Shares. The term "Common Shares" means shares
         of Common Stock, $.001 par value, of the Company.

                  (b) Holder. The term "Holder" means any person owning of
         record Registrable Securities that have not been sold to the
         public or sold pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the
         Securities Act, or any assignee of record of such Registrable
         Securities to whom rights under this Agreement have been duly
         assigned in accordance with this Agreement and the Warrant.

                  (c) Registrable Securities or Registrable Shares. The
         terms "Registrable Securities" or "Registrable Shares" means (i)
         all Common Shares of the Company that may hereafter be acquired by
         Holder pursuant to the exercise of the Warrant or any warrant that
         is issued by the Company to Holder as a replacement for all or any
         portion of the Warrant, (ii) all Common Shares of the Company that
         may hereafter be acquired by Holder pursuant to the Stock Purchase
         Agreement dated the date hereof to which the Company and Holder
         are parties, and (iii) any Common Shares of the Company issued as
         (or issuable upon the conversion or exercise of any warrant, right
         or other security which is issued as) a dividend or other
         distribution with respect to, or in exchange for or in replacement
         of, all such Common Shares described in clauses (i) and (ii) of
         this subsection (c); excluding in all cases, however, any
         Registrable Securities sold by a person in a transaction in which
         rights under this Article I are not assigned in accordance with
         this Agreement or any Registrable Securities sold to the public or
         sold pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.

                  (d) Registration. The terms "register," "registration"
         and "registered" mean a registration effected by preparing and
         filing a registration statement in compliance with the Securities
         Act and the declaration or ordering of effectiveness of such
         registration statement.

                  (e) Registration Expenses. The term "Registration
         Expenses" means all expenses incurred by the Company in complying
         with Section 1.02 hereof, including, without limitation, all
         registration and filing fees, listing fees, printing expenses,
         fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, blue sky fees
         and expenses, the expense of any special audits incident to or
         required by any such registration (but excluding the compensation
         of regular employees of the Company which shall be paid in any
         event by the Company) and the expenses of underwriters customarily
         paid by similarly situated companies in connection with
         underwritten offerings of equity securities to the public
         (including any qualified independent underwriter required in
         connection with such underwritten offering), excluding any such
         fees based on the proceeds of sales of Registrable Securities by
         selling Holders.

                  (f) Registration Statement. The term "Registration
         Statement" means any registration statement under the Securities
         Act for purposes of effecting a public offering of securities of
         the Company.

                  (g) SEC. The term "SEC" means the U.S. Securities and
         Exchange Commission.

                  (h) Securities Act. The term "Securities Act" means the
         Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.

         Section 1.02. PIGGYBACK REGISTRATIONS.

                  (a)  Right to Piggyback. The Company shall notify all
         Holders in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to filing any
         Registration Statement (including, but not limited to,
         Registration Statements relating to secondary offerings of
         securities of the Company, but excluding Registration Statements
         relating to any employee benefit plan or a corporate
         reorganization) and will afford each such Holder an opportunity to
         include in such Registration Statement all or any part of the
         Registrable Securities then held by such Holder. Each Holder
         desiring to include in any such Registration Statement all or any
         part of the Registrable Securities held by such Holder shall,
         within twenty (20) days after receipt of the above-described
         notice from the Company, so notify the Company in writing, and in
         such notice shall inform the Company of the number of Registrable
         Securities such Holder wishes to include in such Registration
         Statement. The Company thereupon will use its best efforts as a
         part of its filing of such Registration Statement to effect the
         registration under the Securities Act of all Registrable
         Securities which the Company has been so requested to register by
         the Holder, to the extent required to permit the disposition of
         the Registrable Securities so to be registered. If a Holder
         decides not to include all of its Registrable Securities in any
         Registration Statement thereafter filed by the Company, such
         Holder shall nevertheless continue to have the right to include
         any Registrable Securities in any subsequent Registration
         Statement or Registration Statements as may be filed by the
         Company with respect to offerings of its securities, all upon the
         terms and conditions set forth herein.

                  (b) Underwriting. If a Registration Statement under which
         the Company gives notice under this Section 1.02 is for an
         underwritten offering, then the Company shall so advise the
         Holders. In such event, the right of any such Holder's Registrable
         Securities to be included in a registration pursuant to this
         Section 1.02 shall be conditioned upon such Holder's participation
         in such underwriting and the inclusion of such Holder's
         Registrable Securities in the underwriting to the extent provided
         herein. All Holders proposing to distribute their Registrable
         Securities through such underwriting shall enter into an
         underwriting agreement in customary form with the managing
         underwriter or underwriter(s) selected for such underwriting.
         Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if the
         managing underwriter(s) determine(s) in good faith that marketing
         factors require a limitation of the number of shares to be
         underwritten, then the managing underwriter(s) may exclude shares
         (including Registrable Securities) from the registration and the
         underwriting, and the number of shares that may be included in the
         registration and the underwriting shall be allocated, first, to
         the Company, and second, the maximum number of Registrable
         Securities requested to be included therein by the Holders and the
         maximum number of any other securities of the same class as the
         Registrable Securities ("Other Securities") requested to be
         included therein by other shareholders of the Company having
         registration rights ("Other Holders"), pro rata among the
         respective Holders and Other Holders on the basis of the number of
         Registrable Securities and Other Securities requested to be
         included in such registration by each such Holder and Other
         Holder. If any Holder disapproves of the terms of any such
         underwriting, such Holder may elect to withdraw all or any part of
         such Holder's Registrable Securities therefrom by written notice
         to the Company and the underwriter, delivered at any time prior to
         the effective date of the Registration Statement. Any Registrable
         Securities excluded or withdrawn from such underwriting shall be
         excluded and withdrawn from the registration. For any Holder that
         is a partnership or corporation, the partners, retired partners
         and shareholders of such Holder, or the estates and family members
         of any such partners and retired partners and any trusts for the
         benefit of any of the foregoing persons shall be deemed to be a
         single "Holder," and any pro rata reduction with respect to such
         "Holder" shall be based upon the aggregate amount of shares
         carrying registration rights owned by all entities and individuals
         included in such "Holder," as defined in this sentence.

                  (c) Expenses. All Registration Expenses incurred in
         connection with a registration pursuant to this Section 1.02 shall
         be borne by the Company, except that notwithstanding anything to
         the contrary herein, if a Holder withdraws all or any part of such
         Holder's Registrable Securities from an underwriting at any time
         less than ten (10) business days prior to the effective date of
         the Registration Statement, such Holder shall pay its pro rata
         share (based on the number of Registrable Securities included in
         the Registration Statement on behalf of such Holder, or if no
         Registration Statement had been filed as of the date of such
         withdrawal, the number of Registrable Securities such Holder
         requested to be included in the Registration Statement) of all
         Registration Expenses, excluding all discounts, commissions or
         other amounts payable to underwriters or brokers in connection
         with the offering. Each Holder participating in a registration
         pursuant to this Section 1.02 shall bear such Holder's
         proportionate share (based on the total number of shares sold in
         such registration) of all discounts, commissions or other amounts
         payable to underwriters or brokers in connection with such
         offering.

         Section 1.03  OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY.  Whenever  required to effect
         the  registration of any Registrable  Securities  under this Agreement,
         the Company shall:

                  (a) Prepare and file with the SEC a Registration
         Statement with respect to such Registrable Securities and use
         reasonable, diligent efforts to cause such Registration Statement
         to become effective.

                  (b) Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and
         supplements to such Registration Statement and the prospectus used
         in connection with such Registration Statement as may be necessary
         to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect
         to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration
         Statement.

                  (c) Furnish to the Holders such number of copies of a
         prospectus, including a preliminary prospectus, in conformity with
         the requirements of the Securities Act and such other documents as
         they may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition
         of the Registrable Securities owned by them that are included in
         such registration.

                  (d) Use reasonable, diligent efforts to register and
         qualify the securities covered by such Registration Statement
         under such other securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions
         as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders, provided that the
         Company shall not be required solely as a result of such
         Registration or as a condition thereto to qualify to do business
         or to file a general consent to service of process in any such
         jurisdictions.

                  (e) In the event of any underwritten public offering,
         enter into and perform its obligations under an underwriting
         agreement, in usual and customary form, with the managing
         underwriter(s) of such offering.

                  (f) Notify each Holder of Registrable Securities covered
         by such Registration Statement at any time when a prospectus
         relating thereto is required to be delivered under the Securities
         Act of the happening of any event as a result of which the
         prospectus included in such Registration Statement, as then in
         effect, includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits
         to state a material fact required to be stated therein or
         necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the
         light of the circumstances then existing, and at the request of
         each Holder promptly prepare and furnish to such Holder a
         reasonable number of copies of a supplement to or amendment of
         such prospectus as may be necessary so that, as thereafter
         delivered to the purchasers of such Registrable Securities, such
         prospectus shall not include an untrue statement of a material
         fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated
         therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading
         in the light of the circumstances then existing.

                  (g) Use its best efforts to list such Registrable
         Securities on each securities exchange on which any equity
         security of the Company is then listed.

         Section 1.04 OBLIGATIONS OF THE HOLDERS.

                  (a) It shall be a condition precedent to the obligations
         of the Company to take any action pursuant to Section 1.02 that
         the selling Holders furnish to the Company such information
         regarding themselves, the Registrable Securities held by them, and
         the intended method of disposition of such securities as is
         required to timely effect the registration of their Registrable
         Securities.

                  (b) Each Holder delivering a written request to
         participate in an underwritten registered offering in accordance
         with Section 1.02 shall, if requested by the Company, as soon as
         practicable after such delivery, execute and deliver to the
         Company a custody agreement and power of attorney in customary
         form satisfactory to the Company and any managing underwriter with
         respect to the Registrable Securities identified for sale by such
         Holder (a "Custody Agreement" and "Power of Attorney,"
         respectively). Each Custody Agreement and Power of Attorney shall
         provide, among other things, that such Holder will deliver to and
         deposit in custody with the custodian named therein (which shall
         be designated by the Company) a certificate or certificates
         representing such Registrable Securities (duly endorsed in blank
         by the registered owner or owners thereof or accompanied by duly
         executed stock powers in blank) and irrevocably appoint such
         custodian and attorney-in-fact with full power and authority to
         act under the Custody Agreement and Power of Attorney,
         respectively, on the Holder's behalf with respect to matters
         specified therein, including the execution and delivery of an
         underwriting agreement.

                  (c) Each Holder that has Registrable Securities included
         in any Registration Statement shall not (until further notice from
         the Company) effect sales thereof after receipt of notice from the
         Company to suspend sales to permit the Company to correct or
         update any Registration Statement, including any prospectus.

         Section 1.05. DELAY OF REGISTRATION. No Holder shall have any
right to obtain or seek an injunction restraining or otherwise delaying any
such registration as the result of any controversy that might arise with
respect to the interpretation or implementation of this Article I.

         Section 1.06 INDEMNIFICATION. In the event any Registrable
Securities are included in a Registration Statement pursuant to Section
1.02:

                  (a) By the Company. To the extent permitted by law, the
         Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Holder, the
         partners, officers, directors, legal counsel and accountants of
         each Holder, any underwriter (as defined in the Securities Act)
         for such Holder and each person, if any, who controls such Holder
         or underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act or the
         Exchange Act against any losses, claims, expenses, damages, or
         liabilities (joint or several) to which they may become subject
         under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any other securities
         or other law of any jurisdiction, common law or otherwise, insofar
         as such losses, claims, expenses, damages, or liabilities (or
         actions proceedings or settlements in respect thereof) arise out
         of or are based upon any of the following statements, omissions or
         violations (collectively, "Violations" and, individually, a
         "Violation"):

                       (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement
                  of a material fact contained in or incorporated by
                  reference in any Registration Statement, including any
                  preliminary prospectus or final prospectus contained
                  therein or any amendments or supplements thereto or any
                  document incorporated by reference therein;

                       (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state
                  therein a material fact required to be stated therein, or
                  necessary to make the statements therein not misleading,
                  or

                       (iii) any violation or alleged violation by the
                  Company of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or any
                  other securities or other law of any jurisdiction, common
                  law or otherwise, or any rule or regulation promulgated
                  under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any such
                  other laws, in connection with the offering covered by
                  such Registration Statement;

         and the Company will reimburse each such Holder, partner, officer
         or director, underwriter or controlling person for any legal or
         other expenses reasonably incurred by them, as incurred, in
         connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim,
         damage, liability or action; provided, however, that the indemnity
         agreement contained in this subsection 1.06(a) shall not apply to
         amounts paid in settlement of any such loss, claim, damage,
         liability or action if such settlement is effected without the
         consent of the Company (which consent shall not be unreasonably
         withheld), nor shall the Company be liable in any such case for
         any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action to the extent
         that it arises out of or is based upon a Violation which occurs in
         reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished
         expressly for use in connection with such registration by such
         Holder, partner, officer, director, underwriter or controlling
         person of such Holder.

                  (b) By Selling Holders. To the extent permitted by law,
         each selling Holder, severally and not jointly, will indemnify and
         hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its
         officers who have signed the Registration Statement, each person,
         if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the
         Securities Act, its legal counsel, its accountants, any
         underwriter and any other Holder selling securities under such
         Registration Statement or any of such other Holder's partners,
         directors or officers or any person who controls such Holder
         within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act,
         against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (joint or
         several) to which the Company or any such director, officer,
         controlling person, legal counsel, accountant, underwriter or
         other such Holder, partner or director, officer or controlling
         person of such other Holder may become subject under the
         Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any other securities or other
         law of any jurisdiction, common law or otherwise, insofar as such
         losses, claims, expenses, damages or liabilities (or actions in
         respect thereto) arise out of or are based upon any Violation, in
         each case to the extent (and only to the extent) that such
         Violation occurs in reliance upon and in conformity with written
         information furnished by such Holder expressly for use in
         connection with such registration; and each such Holder will
         reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the
         Company or any such director, officer, controlling person, legal
         counsel, accountant, underwriter or other Holder, partner,
         officer, director, legal counsel, accountant or controlling person
         of such other Holder in connection with investigating or defending
         any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided,
         however, that the indemnity agreement contained in this subsection
         1.06(b) shall not apply to amounts paid in settlement of any such
         loss, claim, damage, liability or action if such settlement is
         effected without the consent of the Holder, which consent shall
         not be unreasonably withheld; and provided, further, that the
         total amounts payable by a Holder under this Section 1.07 in
         respect of any Violation shall not exceed the net proceeds
         received by such Holder in the registered offering out of which
         such Violation arises.

                  (c) Notice. Promptly after receipt by an indemnified
         party under this Section 1.07 of notice of the commencement of any
         action (including any governmental action), such indemnified party
         will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against any
         indemnifying party under this Section 1.06, deliver to the
         indemnifying party a written notice of the commencement thereof
         and the indemnifying party shall have the right to participate in,
         and, to the extent the indemnifying party so desires, jointly with
         any other indemnifying party similarly noticed, to assume the
         defense thereof with counsel mutually satisfactory to the parties;
         provided, however, that an indemnified party shall have the right
         to retain its own counsel, with the fees and expenses to be paid
         by the indemnifying party, if representation of such indemnified
         party by the counsel retained by the indemnifying party would be
         inappropriate due to actual or potential conflict of interests
         between such indemnified party and any other party represented by
         such counsel in such proceeding or if, and for such period, such
         indemnified party was required to retain counsel prior to the
         indemnifying party's retention of counsel. The failure to deliver
         written notice to the indemnifying party within a reasonable time
         of the commencement of any such action shall relieve such
         indemnifying party of its liability to the indemnified party under
         this Section 1.06 only if and to the extent it is prejudicial to
         its ability to defend such action, and the omission to so deliver
         written notice to the indemnifying party will not relieve it of
         any liability that it may have to any indemnified party otherwise
         than under this Section 1.06.

                  (d)  Defect  Eliminated  in Final  Prospectus.  The  foregoing
         indemnity  agreements  of the  Company  and  Holders are subject to the
         limitation  that,  insofar as they  relate to any  Violation  made in a
         preliminary  prospectus  but  eliminated  or  remedied  in the  amended
         prospectus on file with the SEC at the time the Registration  Statement
         in question becomes effective or the amended  prospectus filed with the
         SEC  pursuant  to  SEC  Rule  424(b)  (the  "Final  Prospectus"),  such
         indemnity  agreement  shall not inure to the benefit of any person if a
         copy of the Final Prospectus was furnished to the indemnified party and
         was not furnished to the person asserting the loss, liability, claim or
         damage  at or  prior  to  the  time  such  action  is  required  by the
         Securities Act.

                  (e) Contribution. In order to provide for just and
         equitable contribution to joint liability under the Securities
         Act, in any case in which either (i) any Holder exercising rights
         under this Agreement, or any controlling person of any such
         Holder, makes a claim for indemnification pursuant to this Section
         1.06 but it is judicially determined (by the entry of a final
         judgment or decree by a court of competent jurisdiction and the
         expiration of time to appeal or the denial of the last right of
         appeal) that such indemnification may not be enforced or is
         otherwise unavailable in such case notwithstanding the fact that
         this Section 1.06 provides for indemnification in such case, or
         (ii) contribution under the Securities Act may be required on the
         part of any such selling Holder or any such controlling person in
         circumstances for which indemnification is provided under this
         Section 1.06; then, and in each such case, the Company and such
         Holder will contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages or
         liabilities to which they may be subject (after contribution from
         others) in such proportion so that such Holder is responsible for
         the portion represented by the percentage that the public offering
         price of its Registrable Securities offered by and sold under the
         Registration Statement bears to the public offering price of all
         securities offered by and sold under such Registration Statement,
         and the Company and other selling Holders are responsible for the
         remaining portion; provided, however, that, in any such case, (A)
         no such Holder will be required to contribute any amount in excess
         of the net proceeds received from the sale of all such Registrable
         Securities offered and sold by such Holder pursuant to such
         Registration Statement; and (B) no person or entity guilty of
         fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f)
         of the Securities Act) will be entitled to contribution from any
         person or entity who was not guilty of such fraudulent
         misrepresentation.

                  (f) Survival; Release. The obligations of the Company and
         Holders under this Section 1.06 shall survive the completion of
         any offering of Registrable Securities in a Registration Statement
         and otherwise. No indemnifying party, in the defense of any such
         claim or litigation, shall, except with the consent of each
         indemnified party, consent to entry of any judgment or enter into
         any settlement which admits fault on behalf of the indemnified
         party or which does not include as an unconditional term thereof
         the giving by the claimant or plaintiff to such indemnified party
         of a release from all liability in respect to such claim or
         litigation.

         Section 1.07. "MARKET STAND-OFF" AGREEMENT. Each Holder hereby
agrees that it shall not, to the extent requested by the Company or an
underwriter of securities of the Company, sell or otherwise transfer or
dispose of any Registrable Securities or other shares of stock of the
Company then owned by such Holder (other than to donees of the Holder who
agree to be similarly bound) for up to ninety (90) days following the
effective date of a Registration Statement of the Company for an
underwritten offering filed under the Securities Act; provided that all
officers and directors of the Company have entered into similar agreements.
In order to enforce the foregoing covenant, the Company shall have the
right to place restrictive legends on the certificates representing the
shares subject to this Section and to impose stop transfer instructions
with respect to the Registrable Securities and such other shares of each
Holder (and the shares or securities of every other person subject to the
foregoing restriction) until the end of such period.

         Section 1.08. TERMINATION OF THE COMPANY'S OBLIGATIONS. The
Company shall have no obligations pursuant to Section 1.02 with respect to
any Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by a Holder in a
registration pursuant to Section 1.02 if, in the opinion of counsel to the
Company, all such Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by a Holder
and all other Common Shares then owned by such Holder may be sold in a
three-month period without registration under the Securities Act pursuant
to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In such event, such Holder shall not
be subject to the provisions of Section 1.07.

                                ARTICLE II

                                 AMENDMENT

         Section 2.01. AMENDMENT. Any provision of this Agreement may be
amended and the observance thereof may be waived (either generally or in a
particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively), only with
the written consent of the Company and Holders holding Registrable
Securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of all the
Registrable Securities (on an as-converted basis). Any amendment or waiver
effected in accordance with this Section 2.01 shall be binding upon each
Holder and the Company.

                                ARTICLE III

                             GENERAL PROVISIONS

         Section 3.01. NOTICES. Any and all notices required or permitted
to be given to a party pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement must be
in writing and will be effective and deemed to provide such party
sufficient notice under this Agreement on the earliest of the following:
(i) at the time of personal delivery, if delivery is in person; (ii) at the
time of transmission by facsimile, addressed to the other party at its
facsimile number, with confirmation of receipt made by both telephone and
printed confirmation sheet verifying successful transmission of the
facsimile; (iii) one (1) business day after deposit with an express
overnight courier for deliveries within a country, or three (3) business
days after such deposit for international deliveries or (iv) three (3)
business days after deposit in mail by certified mail (return receipt
requested) or equivalent for deliveries within a country.

         All notices for international delivery will be sent by facsimile
or by express courier. All notices not delivered personally or by facsimile
will be sent with postage and/or other charges prepaid and properly
addressed to the party to be notified at the following address or facsimile
number:

         Company:          KFx Inc.
                           3300 East First Avenue, Suite 290
                           Denver, Colorado 80206
                           Facsimile:  (303) 293-8430
                           Attention:  Chief Financial Officer

         Holder:           Mark S. Sexton
                           ___________________________________
                           ___________________________________
                           ___________________________________
                           ___________________________________

         Any party may by notice so given change its address for future
notices hereunder. Notice shall conclusively be deemed to have been given
in the manner set forth above.

         Section 3.02. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement and the Warrant
constitute and contain the entire agreement and understanding of the
parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and
all prior negotiations, correspondence, agreements, understandings, duties
or obligations between the parties respecting the subject matter hereof.

         Section 3.03. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by,
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.

         Section 3.04. NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. This Agreement shall
be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the parties hereto and
their permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended
to or shall confer upon any other person any legal or equitable right,
benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this
Agreement.

         Section 3.05. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. The provisions of this
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the
successors and permitted assigns of the parties hereto.

         Section 3.06. HEADINGS. The descriptive headings contained in this
Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any
way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

         Section 3.07. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in one
or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same
agreement.

         Section 3.08. EXPENSES. All costs and expenses, including, without
limitation, fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisors and
accountants, incurred in connection with this Agreement and the
transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such
costs and expenses.

         Section 3.09. CONSTRUCTION. Words used herein, regardless of the
gender specifically used, shall be deemed and construed to include any
other gender, masculine, feminine or neuter, as the context requires.


                [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]




         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this
Agreement as of the date and year first written above.


                                            THE COMPANY:

                                            KFX INC.


                                            By: /s/ Seth L. Patterson
                                               ---------------------------
                                            Name:  Seth L. Patterson
                                            Title: Executive Vice President
                                                   and Chief Financial Officer


                                            HOLDER:


                                            /s/ Mark S. Sexton
                                            ------------------------------
                                            Mark S. Sexton


             [SIGNATURE PAGE TO REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT]




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>12
<FILENAME>0012.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.17 - CERTIFICATE
<TEXT>



                                  KFX INC.


              1,300,000 WARRANTS EACH TO PURCHASE ONE SHARE OF
                          COMMON STOCK OF KFX INC.

                        NO. 1 WARRANTS TO PURCHASE
                              1,300,000 SHARES


                  THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT
         BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE
         "ACT"), OR ANY OF THE LAWS OF ANY STATE AND HAVE BEEN ISSUED
         PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT. THE
         SECURITIES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE OFFERED,
         SOLD OR TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IF (A) COVERED BY AN EFFECTIVE
         REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE ACT AND REGISTERED OR QUALIFIED
         UNDER APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS, OR (B) THE CORPORATION HAS
         BEEN FURNISHED WITH AN OPINION OF COUNSEL REASONABLY ACCEPTABLE TO
         THE CORPORATION TO THE EFFECT THAT NO REGISTRATION OR
         QUALIFICATION IS LEGALLY REQUIRED FOR SUCH TRANSFER.

         FOR VALUE RECEIVED, KFX INC., a Delaware corporation (the
"Company"), hereby certifies that Landrica Development Company, a South
Dakota corporation, or its registered assigns as permitted herein (the
"Holder") is entitled, subject to the provisions of this Warrant
Certificate, to purchase from the Company, at the times specified herein,
1,300,000 fully paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock of the
Company, par value $.001 per share (the "Common Stock"), at a purchase
price per share equal to the Exercise Price (as hereinafter defined) (the
"Warrants"). The number of shares of Common Stock to be received upon the
exercise of the Warrants are subject to adjustment from time to time as
hereinafter set forth.

                                 ARTICLE I

                                DEFINITIONS

         The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:

         "Act" means the Securities Act of 1933.

         "Board" means the board of directors of the Company.

         "Business Day" means any day except a Saturday, Sunday or other
day on which commercial banks in the City of New York are authorized by law
to close.

         "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.

         "Common Stock" means the Company's common stock, $.001 par value
per share.

         "Exercise Price" means $3.65 per Warrant Share, such Exercise
Price to be adjusted from time to time as provided herein.

         "Expiration Date" means the earlier of (i) 5:00 p.m. Denver,
Colorado time on April 30, 2005, and (ii) the date of its exercise in full.

         "Person" means an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a
limited liability company, a trust, a joint venture, an unincorporated
organization and a government or any department or agency thereof.

         "Warrant Shares" means the shares of Common Stock deliverable upon
exercise of the Warrants, as the number of such shares shall be adjusted
from time to time as provided herein, provided that if there is a change
such that the securities issuable upon exercise of the Warrants are issued
by an entity other than the Company or there is a change in the class of
securities so issuable, then the term "Warrant Shares" will mean the shares
of the security issuable upon exercise of the Warrants if such security is
issuable in shares, or will mean the smallest units in which such security
is issuable if such security is not issuable in shares.

                                 ARTICLE II

         Section 2.01.     EXERCISE OF WARRANTS.

         (1) The Holder is entitled to exercise the Warrants in whole or in
part at any time, or from time to time, until the Expiration Date or, if
such day is not a Business Day, then on the next succeeding day that shall
be a Business Day. To exercise the Warrants, the Holder shall execute and
deliver to the Company a Warrant Exercise Notice substantially in the form
annexed hereto, together with this Warrant Certificate and the payment of
the applicable Exercise Price. Upon such delivery and payment, the Holder
shall be deemed to be the holder of record of the Warrant Shares subject to
such exercise, notwithstanding that the stock transfer books of the Company
shall then be closed or that certificates representing such Warrant Shares
shall not then be actually delivered to the Holder.

         (2) The Exercise Price may be paid in cash or by certified or
official bank check or bank cashier's check payable to the order of the
Company or by any combination of such checks. In addition, the Holder of
this Warrant may exercise this Warrant by surrendering it to the Company to
purchase a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of such
shares then purchasable upon exercise hereof less the number of such shares
equal to the quotient of the aggregate Exercise Price of all such shares
underlying this Warrant divided by the Fair Market Price per Share. Fair
Market Price per Share shall mean the average of the closing sales prices,
if available, or the average of the bid and asked prices for the Common
Stock (or its successor), on the principal market therefor for the five
trading days preceding the day which is one business day prior to the day
of exercise, or if no such price is available, as determined by the Board.
The Company shall pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or
transfer taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of the Warrant
Shares.

         (3) If the Holder exercises the Warrants in part, this Warrant
Certificate shall be surrendered by the Holder to the Company and a new
Warrant Certificate of the same tenor and for the unexercised number of
Warrant Shares shall be executed by the Company. The Company shall register
the new Warrant Certificate in the name of the Holder or in such name or
names of its transferees as may be directed in writing by the Holder and
deliver the new Warrant Certificate to the Person or Persons entitled to
receive the same.

         (4) Upon surrender of this Warrant Certificate in conformity with
the foregoing provisions, the Company shall transfer to the Holder of this
Warrant Certificate appropriate evidence of ownership of the shares of
Common Stock or other securities or property (including any money) to which
the Holder is entitled, registered or otherwise placed in, or payable to
the order of, the name or names of the Holder or such transferee as may be
directed in writing by the Holder, and shall deliver such evidence of
ownership and any other securities or property (including any money) to the
Person or Persons entitled to receive the same, together with the amount in
cash in lieu of any fraction of a share as provided in Section 2.03 below.

         Section 2.02. RESTRICTIVE LEGEND. Certificates representing shares
of Common Stock issued pursuant to the Warrants shall bear a legend
substantially in the form of the legend set forth on the first page of this
Warrant Certificate.

         Section 2.03. FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional shares or scrip
representing fractional shares shall be issued upon the exercise of the
Warrants and in lieu of delivery of any such fractional share upon any
exercise hereof, the Company shall pay to the Holder an amount in cash
equal to such fraction multiplied by the then current market price per
share of Common Stock.

         Section 2.04. LOSS OR DESTRUCTION OF WARRANT. Upon receipt by the
Company of evidence satisfactory to it (in the exercise of its reasonable
discretion) of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of this Warrant
Certificate, and (in the case of loss, theft or destruction) of reasonably
satisfactory indemnification, and upon surrender and cancellation of this
Warrant Certificate, if mutilated, the Company shall execute and deliver a
new Warrant Certificate of like tenor and date.

         Section 2.05. FORFEITURE. Except as otherwise provided in this
Warrant, the Warrants may be exercised at any time through the close of
business on April 30, 2005.

         Section 2.06. EFFECT OF REORGANIZATION, RECLASSIFICATION,
CONSOLIDATION, MERGER OR SALE. If at any time while this Warrant is
outstanding there shall be any reorganization or reclassification of the
capital stock of the Company (other than a stock split, stock dividend or
other subdivision or combination of shares) or any consolidation or merger
of the Company with another corporation (other than a consolidation or
merger in which the Company is the surviving entity and which does not
result in any change in the Common Stock), or any sale or other disposition
by the Company of all or substantially all of its assets to any other
corporation, the Holder shall thereafter upon exercise of this Warrant be
entitled to receive the number of shares of stock or other securities or
property of the Company, or of the successor corporation resulting from
such consolidation or merger, as the case may be, to which the Warrant
Shares deliverable upon the exercise of this Warrant would have been
entitled upon such reorganization, reclassification of capital stock,
consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition if this Warrant had been
exercised immediately prior to such reorganization, reclassification of
capital stock, consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition. In any
such case, appropriate adjustment (as determined by the Board) shall be
made in the application of the provisions set forth in this Warrant with
respect to the rights and interests thereafter of the Holder to the end
that the provisions set forth in this Warrant (including those relating to
adjustments of the Exercise Price and the number of shares issuable upon
the exercise of this Warrant) shall thereafter be applicable, as near as
reasonably may be, in relation to any shares or other property thereafter
deliverable upon the exercise hereof as if this Warrant had been exercised
immediately prior to such reorganization, reclassification of capital
stock, consolidation, merger, sale or other disposition and the Holder
hereof had carried out the terms of the exchange as provided for by such
reorganization, reclassification of capital stock, consolidation or merger.

         Section 2.07. ADJUSTMENTS FOR STOCK EVENTS. If at any time there
shall occur any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split or other
subdivision or combination of the Company's Common Stock (a "Stock Event"),
then the number of shares of Common Stock to be received by the holder of
this Warrant shall be appropriately adjusted such that the proportion of
the number of shares issuable hereunder to the total number of shares of
the Company (on a fully diluted basis) prior to such Stock Event is equal
to the proportion of the number of shares issuable hereunder after such
Stock Event to the total number of shares of the Company (on a
fully-diluted basis) after such Stock Event. No adjustment to the Exercise
Price shall be made in connection with any adjustment of the number of
shares of Common Stock receivable upon exercise of this Warrant, except
that the Exercise Price shall be proportionately decreased or increased
upon the occurrence of any Stock Event; however, in no event shall the
Exercise Price be less than the par value of the Common Stock.

         Section 2.08. RESERVATION OF COMMON STOCK. The Company will at all
times reserve and keep available for issuance upon the exercise of the
Warrant such number of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock
as will be sufficient to permit the exercise in full of the Warrant, and
when issued upon such exercise shall be validly issued, fully paid and
nonassessable.

                                ARTICLE III

                              NO VOTING RIGHTS

         Prior to the exercise of any Warrant, the Holder shall not, by
virtue hereof, be entitled to any rights as a stockholder of the Company,
including, without limitation, the right to vote, to receive dividends or
other distributions, to exercise any preemptive rights or to receive any
notice of meeting of stockholders or any notice of any proceedings of the
Company except as may be specifically provided for herein.

                                 ARTICLE IV

                         TRANSFER; REPRESENTATIONS

                  (a) Subject to the transfer conditions referred to in
         paragraph (b) below, this Warrant and all rights hereunder are
         transferable, in whole or in part, without charge to the Holder,
         to any entity or person controlled by or controlling Landrica
         Development Company whether through stock or other ownership of
         fifty percent (50%) or greater or otherwise upon completion of the
         form of Assignment attached hereto as Exhibit B and surrender of
         this Warrant, together with such assignment, at the principal
         office of the Company.

                  (b) The Holder of this Warrant acknowledges and
         represents:

                           (i) that neither this Warrant nor the Warrant
                  Shares have been registered under the Act, or any state
                  securities law and agrees not to sell, pledge,
                  distribute, offer for sale, transfer or otherwise dispose
                  of this Warrant or any Warrant Shares issued upon its
                  exercise in the absence of (A) an effective registration
                  statement as to this Warrant or such Warrant Shares under
                  the Act (or any similar statute then in effect) or any
                  state securities law, or (B) an opinion of counsel for
                  the Company to the effect that such registration is not,
                  under the circumstances, required.

                           (ii) THE OFFER AND SALE OF THE SECURITIES
                  EVIDENCED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED
                  UNDER THE ACT, AND SUCH SECURITIES MAY NOT BE SOLD OR
                  TRANSFERRED UNLESS THERE IS AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION
                  STATEMENT UNDER SUCH ACT COVERING SUCH SALE OR TRANSFER
                  OR THE COMPANY RECEIVES AN OPINION OF COUNSEL (WHICH MAY
                  BE COUNSEL FOR THE COMPANY) STATING THAT SUCH SALE OR
                  TRANSFER IS EXEMPT FROM THE REGISTRATION AND PROSPECTUS
                  DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS OF SUCH ACT.

                           (iii) The Holder is acquiring this Warrant and
                  the Warrant Shares for its own account for investment and
                  not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, any
                  distribution thereof; nor with any present intention of
                  distributing or selling the same.

                           (iv) The Holder has made detailed inquiry
                  concerning the Company, its business and its personnel;
                  the officers of the Company have made available to the
                  Holder any and all written information which it has
                  requested and have answered to the Holder's satisfaction
                  all inquiries made by the Holder, and the Holder has
                  sufficient knowledge and experience in investing in
                  companies similar to the Company so as to be able to
                  evaluate the risks and merits of its investment in the
                  Company and is able financially to bear the risks
                  thereof.

                  (c) The Holder understands that the Company proposes to
         issue and deliver this Warrant and the Warrant Shares to the
         Holder pursuant to this Agreement without compliance with the
         registration requirements of the Act; that for such purpose the
         Company will rely upon the representations, warranties, covenants
         and agreements contained herein; and that such non-compliance with
         registration is not permissible unless such representations and
         warranties are correct and such covenants and agreements
         performed. The Holder is an "accredited investor" as such term is
         defined in Rule 501 under the Act.

                  (d) The Holder understands that, under existing rules of
         the Commission, the Holder may be unable to sell this Warrant and
         the Warrant Shares except to the extent that this Warrant and the
         Warrant Shares may be sold (i) pursuant to an effective
         registration statement covering such securities pursuant to the
         Act or (ii) in a bona fide private placement to a purchaser who
         shall be subject to the same restrictions on any resale or (iii)
         subject to the restrictions contained in Rule 144 under the Act.

                  (e) The Holder (either alone or together with its
         advisors) has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial and
         business matters so as to be capable of evaluating the merits and
         risks of its investment in this Warrant and the Warrant Shares and
         the Holder is capable of bearing the economic risks of such
         investment.

                                 ARTICLE V

                               NO IMPAIRMENT

         The Company will not, by amendment of its charter or through
reorganization, consolidation, merger, dissolution, sale of assets or any
other voluntary action, avoid or seek to avoid the observance or
performance of any of the terms of this Warrant, but will at all times in
good faith assist in the carrying out of all such terms and in the taking
of all such action as may be necessary or appropriate in order to protect
the rights of the Holder of this Warrant against impairment.

                                 ARTICLE VI

                           LIQUIDATING DIVIDENDS

         If the Company pays a dividend or makes a distribution on the
Common Stock payable otherwise than in cash out of earnings or earned
surplus (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles), except for a stock dividend payable in shares of Common Stock
(a "Liquidating Dividend"), then the Company will pay or distribute to the
holder of this Warrant, upon the exercise hereof, in addition to the
Warrant Shares purchased upon such exercise, the Liquidating Dividend which
would have been paid to such holder if he had been the owner of record of
such shares of Common Stock immediately prior to the date on which a record
is taken for such Liquidating Dividend or, if no record is taken, the date
as of which the record holders of Common Stock entitled to such dividend or
distribution are to be determined.

                                ARTICLE VII

                        NOTICES OF RECORD DATE, ETC.

         In case:

                  (a) the Company shall take a record of the holders of its
         Common Stock (or other stock or securities at the time deliverable
         upon the exercise of this Warrant) for the purpose of entitling or
         enabling them to receive any dividend or other distribution, or to
         receive any other right, or

                  (b) of any capital reorganization of the Company, any
         reclassification of the capital stock of the Company, any
         consolidation or merger of the Company with or into another
         corporation (other than a consolidation or merger in which the
         Company is the surviving entity), or any transfer of all or
         substantially all of the assets of the Company, or

                  (c) of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution,
         liquidation or winding-up of the Company, then, and in each such
         case, the Company will mail or cause to be mailed to the Holder of
         this Warrant a notice specifying as the case may be, (i) the date
         on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend,
         distribution or right, and stating the amount and character of
         such dividend, distribution or right, or (ii) the effective date
         on which such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation,
         merger, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up is to
         take place, and the time, if any is to be fixed, as of which the
         holders of record of Common Stock (or such other stock or
         securities at the time deliverable upon the exercise of this
         Warrant) shall be entitled to exchange their shares of Common
         Stock (or such other stock or securities) for securities or other
         property deliverable upon such reorganization, reclassification,
         consolidation, merger, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or
         winding-up. Such notice shall be given at least ten (10) days
         prior to the record date or effective date for the event specified
         in such notice.

                                ARTICLE VIII

                               MISCELLANEOUS

         Section 8.01. AMENDMENT AND WAIVER. The provisions of the Warrant
may be amended and the Company may take any action herein prohibited, or
omit to perform any act herein required to be performed by it upon the
written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding Warrants
exercisable for a majority of the Warrant Shares.

         Section 8.02. NOTICES. Any notices required to be sent to the
Holder will be delivered to the address of the Holder shown on the books of
the Company. All notices referred to herein will be delivered in person,
sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, or by recognized express courier
(such as Federal Express). Notice will be deemed to have been given upon
personal delivery, one business day after deposit with an express courier
or two business days after deposit in the mail.

         Section 8.03. DESCRIPTIVE HEADINGS; GOVERNING LAW. The descriptive
headings of the paragraphs of this Warrant are inserted for convenience
only and do not constitute a part of this Warrant. The construction,
validity and interpretation of this Warrant will be governed by the laws of
the State of Delaware.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Warrant to be
signed and sealed by its duly authorized officers under its corporate seal.

                                        KFx Inc.


                                        By: /s/ Seth L. Patterson
                                           -----------------------------------
                                        Name:  Seth L. Patterson
                                        Title: Executive Vice President and
                                               Chief Financial Officer

[Corporate Seal]


Attest:


By: /s/ R. G. Swenson
   -----------------------------------------
Name:  R. G. Swenson
Title: Secretary




                                 EXHIBIT A

                          WARRANT EXERCISE NOTICE

            (To be executed only upon exercise of the Warrants)



To:      KFx Inc.

         The undersigned irrevocably exercises the Warrants for the
purchase of __________ shares (the "Shares") of Common Stock, par value
$.001 per share, of KFx Inc. (the "Company") and agrees to make payment
therefor [in the amount of $______________] [in accordance with the
cashless exercise provisions of Section 2.01(2) of the within Warrant
Certificate], all on the terms and conditions specified in the within
Warrant Certificate, surrenders this Warrant Certificate and all right,
title and interest therein to the Company and directs that the Shares
deliverable upon the exercise of the Warrants be registered or placed in
the name and at the address specified below and delivered thereto.

Dated: ___________________, 20__.





                           __________________________________________________
                           (Signature of Owner)

                            _________________________________________________
                           (Street Address)

                           __________________________________________________
                           (City)                 (State)          (Zip Code)




Securities and/or check to be issued to:


Please insert social security or identifying number:


Name:


Street Address:


City, State and Zip Code:


Any unexercised portion of the Warrants evidenced by the within Warrant
Certificate to be issued to:


Please insert social security or identifying number:


Name:


Street Address:


City, State and Zip Code






                                 EXHIBIT B

                                 ASSIGNMENT


         FOR VALUE RECEIVED, _______________ hereby sells, assigns and
transfers all of the rights of the undersigned under the within Warrant,
with respect to the number of shares of Common Stock covered thereby set
forth hereinbelow unto:


         Name of Assignee                   Address           No. of Shares of
                                                              Common Stock
         __________________________     _________________     ________________

                                        _________________

                                        _________________


Date:______________________________     Name        __________________________

                                        Signature   __________________________

                                        Witness     __________________________



         This Assignment must be completed and sent to:

                                    KFx Inc.
                                    1999 Broadway
                                    Suite 3200
                                    Denver, CO 80202




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>13
<FILENAME>0013.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.18 - REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
<TEXT>



                       REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT


         This Registration Rights Agreement (this "Agreement") is made and
entered into as of May 1, 2000 by and between KFx Inc., a Delaware
corporation (the "Company"), and Landrica Development Company, a South
Dakota corporation, or its registered assigns ("Landrica") as permitted in
the Warrant to purchase 1,300,000 shares of Common Stock of KFx Inc. dated
the date hereof (the "Warrant").

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises
hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto agree as follows:

                                 ARTICLE I

                            REGISTRATION RIGHTS

         Section 1.01. DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Agreement:

                  (a) Common Shares. The term "Common Shares" means shares
         of Common Stock, $.001 par value, of the Company.

                  (b) Holder. The term "Holder" means any person owning of
         record Registrable Securities that have not been sold to the
         public or sold pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the
         Securities Act, or any assignee of record of such Registrable
         Securities to whom rights under this Agreement have been duly
         assigned in accordance with this Agreement and the Warrant.

                  (c) Registrable Securities. The term "Registrable
         Securities" means (i) all Common Shares of the Company that may
         hereafter be acquired by Landrica pursuant to the exercise of the
         Warrant or any warrant that is issued by the Company to Landrica
         as a replacement for all or any portion of the Warrant and (ii)
         any Common Shares of the Company issued as (or issuable upon the
         conversion or exercise of any warrant, right or other security
         which is issued as) a dividend or other distribution with respect
         to, or in exchange for or in replacement of, all such Common
         Shares described in clause (i) of this subsection (c); excluding
         in all cases, however, any Registrable Securities sold by a person
         in a transaction in which rights under this Article I are not
         assigned in accordance with this Agreement or any Registrable
         Securities sold to the public or sold pursuant to Rule 144
         promulgated under the Securities Act.

                  (d) Registration. The terms "register," "registration"
         and "registered" mean a registration effected by preparing and
         filing a registration statement in compliance with the Securities
         Act and the declaration or ordering of effectiveness of such
         registration statement.

                  (e) Registration Expenses. The term "Registration
         Expenses" means all expenses incurred by the Company in complying
         with Sections 1.02 and 1.03 hereof, including, without limitation,
         all registration and filing fees, listing fees, printing expenses,
         fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company, blue sky fees
         and expenses, the expense of any special audits incident to or
         required by any such registration (but excluding the compensation
         of regular employees of the Company which shall be paid in any
         event by the Company) and the expenses of underwriters customarily
         paid by similarly situated companies in connection with
         underwritten offerings of equity securities to the public
         (including any qualified independent underwriter required in
         connection with such underwritten offering), excluding any such
         fees based on the proceeds of sales of Registrable Securities by
         selling Holders.

                  (f) Registration Statement. The term "Registration
         Statement" means any registration statement under the Securities
         Act for purposes of effecting a public offering of securities of
         the Company.

                  (g) SEC. The term "SEC" means the U.S. Securities and
         Exchange Commission.

                  (h) Securities Act. The term "Securities Act" means the
         Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.

         Section 1.02. PIGGYBACK REGISTRATIONS.

                  (a) Right to Piggyback. The Company shall notify all
         Holders in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to filing any
         Registration Statement (including, but not limited to,
         Registration Statements relating to secondary offerings of
         securities of the Company, but excluding Registration Statements
         relating to any employee benefit plan or a corporate
         reorganization) and will afford each such Holder an opportunity to
         include in such Registration Statement all or any part of the
         Registrable Securities then held by such Holder. Each Holder
         desiring to include in any such Registration Statement all or any
         part of the Registrable Securities held by such Holder shall,
         within twenty (20) days after receipt of the above-described
         notice from the Company, so notify the Company in writing, and in
         such notice shall inform the Company of the number of Registrable
         Securities such Holder wishes to include in such Registration
         Statement. The Company thereupon will use its best efforts as a
         part of its filing of such Registration Statement to effect the
         registration under the Securities Act of all Registrable
         Securities which the Company has been so requested to register by
         the Holder, to the extent required to permit the disposition of
         the Registrable Securities so to be registered. If a Holder
         decides not to include all of its Registrable Securities in any
         Registration Statement thereafter filed by the Company, such
         Holder shall nevertheless continue to have the right to include
         any Registrable Securities in any subsequent Registration
         Statement or Registration Statements as may be filed by the
         Company with respect to offerings of its securities, all upon the
         terms and conditions set forth herein.

                  (b) Underwriting. If a Registration Statement under which
         the Company gives notice under this Section 1.02 is for an
         underwritten offering, then the Company shall so advise the
         Holders. In such event, the right of any such Holder's Registrable
         Securities to be included in a registration pursuant to this
         Section 1.02 shall be conditioned upon such Holder's participation
         in such underwriting and the inclusion of such Holder's
         Registrable Securities in the underwriting to the extent provided
         herein. All Holders proposing to distribute their Registrable
         Securities through such underwriting shall enter into an
         underwriting agreement in customary form with the managing
         underwriter or underwriter(s) selected for such underwriting.
         Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if the
         managing underwriter(s) determine(s) in good faith that marketing
         factors require a limitation of the number of shares to be
         underwritten, then the managing underwriter(s) may exclude shares
         (including Registrable Securities) from the registration and the
         underwriting, and the number of shares that may be included in the
         registration and the underwriting shall be allocated, first, to
         the Company, and second, the maximum number of Registrable
         Securities requested to be included therein by the Holders and the
         maximum number of any other securities of the same class as the
         Registrable Securities ("Other Securities") requested to be
         included therein by other shareholders of the Company having
         registration rights ("Other Holders"), pro rata among the
         respective Holders and Other Holders on the basis of the number of
         Registrable Securities and Other Securities requested to be
         included in such registration by each such Holder and Other
         Holder. If any Holder disapproves of the terms of any such
         underwriting, such Holder may elect to withdraw all or any part of
         such Holder's Registrable Securities therefrom by written notice
         to the Company and the underwriter, delivered at any time prior to
         the effective date of the Registration Statement. Any Registrable
         Securities excluded or withdrawn from such underwriting shall be
         excluded and withdrawn from the registration. For any Holder that
         is a partnership or corporation, the partners, retired partners
         and shareholders of such Holder, or the estates and family members
         of any such partners and retired partners and any trusts for the
         benefit of any of the foregoing persons shall be deemed to be a
         single "Holder," and any pro rata reduction with respect to such
         "Holder" shall be based upon the aggregate amount of shares
         carrying registration rights owned by all entities and individuals
         included in such "Holder," as defined in this sentence.

                  (c) Expenses. All Registration Expenses incurred in
         connection with a registration pursuant to this Section 1.02 shall
         be borne by the Company, except that notwithstanding anything to
         the contrary herein, if a Holder withdraws all or any part of such
         Holder's Registrable Securities from an underwriting at any time
         less than ten (10) business days prior to the effective date of
         the Registration Statement, such Holder shall pay its pro rata
         share (based on the number of Registrable Securities included in
         the Registration Statement on behalf of such Holder, or if no
         Registration Statement had been filed as of the date of such
         withdrawal, the number of Registrable Securities such Holder
         requested to be included in the Registration Statement) of all
         Registration Expenses, excluding all discounts, commissions or
         other amounts payable to underwriters or brokers in connection
         with the offering. Each Holder participating in a registration
         pursuant to this Section 1.02 shall bear such Holder's
         proportionate share (based on the total number of shares sold in
         such registration) of all discounts, commissions or other amounts
         payable to underwriters or brokers in connection with such
         offering.

         Section 1.03. OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY. Whenever required to
effect the registration of any Registrable Securities under this Agreement,
the Company shall:

                  (a) Prepare and file with the SEC a Registration
         Statement with respect to such Registrable Securities and use
         reasonable, diligent efforts to cause such Registration Statement
         to become effective.

                  (b) Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and
         supplements to such Registration Statement and the prospectus used
         in connection with such Registration Statement as may be necessary
         to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect
         to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration
         Statement.

                  (c) Furnish to the Holders such number of copies of a
         prospectus, including a preliminary prospectus, in conformity with
         the requirements of the Securities Act and such other documents as
         they may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition
         of the Registrable Securities owned by them that are included in
         such registration.

                  (d) Use reasonable, diligent efforts to register and
         qualify the securities covered by such Registration Statement
         under such other securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions
         as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders, provided that the
         Company shall not be required solely as a result of such
         Registration or as a condition thereto to qualify to do business
         or to file a general consent to service of process in any such
         jurisdictions.

                  (e) In the event of any underwritten public offering,
         enter into and perform its obligations under an underwriting
         agreement, in usual and customary form, with the managing
         underwriter(s) of such offering.

                  (f) Notify each Holder of Registrable Securities covered
         by such Registration Statement at any time when a prospectus
         relating thereto is required to be delivered under the Securities
         Act of the happening of any event as a result of which the
         prospectus included in such Registration Statement, as then in
         effect, includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omits
         to state a material fact required to be stated therein or
         necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the
         light of the circumstances then existing, and at the request of
         each Holder promptly prepare and furnish to such Holder a
         reasonable number of copies of a supplement to or amendment of
         such prospectus as may be necessary so that, as thereafter
         delivered to the purchasers of such Registrable Securities, such
         prospectus shall not include an untrue statement of a material
         fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated
         therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading
         in the light of the circumstances then existing.

                  (g) Use its best efforts to list such Registrable
         Securities on each securities exchange on which any equity
         security of the Company is then listed.

         Section 1.04. OBLIGATIONS OF THE HOLDERS.

                  (a) It shall be a condition precedent to the obligations
         of the Company to take any action pursuant to Sections 1.02 and
         1.03 that the selling Holders furnish to the Company such
         information regarding themselves, the Registrable Securities held
         by them, and the intended method of disposition of such securities
         as is required to timely effect the registration of their
         Registrable Securities.

                  (b) Each Holder delivering a written request to
         participate in an underwritten registered offering in accordance
         with Section 1.02 shall, if requested by the Company, as soon as
         practicable after such delivery, execute and deliver to the
         Company a custody agreement and power of attorney in customary
         form satisfactory to the Company and any managing underwriter with
         respect to the Registrable Securities identified for sale by such
         Holder (a "Custody Agreement" and "Power of Attorney,"
         respectively). Each Custody Agreement and Power of Attorney shall
         provide, among other things, that such Holder will deliver to and
         deposit in custody with the custodian named therein (which shall
         be designated by the Company) a certificate or certificates
         representing such Registrable Securities (duly endorsed in blank
         by the registered owner or owners or owners thereof or accompanied
         by duly executed stock powers in blank) and irrevocably appoint
         such custodian and attorney-in-fact with full power and authority
         to act under the Custody Agreement and Power of Attorney,
         respectively, on the Holder's behalf with respect to matters
         specified therein, including the execution and delivery of an
         underwriting agreement.

                  (c) Each Holder that has Registrable Securities included
         in any Registration Statement shall not (until further notice from
         the Company) effect sales thereof after receipt of notice from the
         Company to suspend sales to permit the Company to correct or
         update any Registration Statement, including any prospectus.

         Section 1.05. DELAY OF REGISTRATION. No Holder shall have any
right to obtain or seek an injunction restraining or otherwise delaying any
such registration as the result of any controversy that might arise with
respect to the interpretation or implementation of this Article I.

         Section 1.06. INDEMNIFICATION. In the event any Registrable
Securities are included in a Registration Statement pursuant to Section
1.02:

                  (a) By the Company. To the extent permitted by law, the
         Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Holder, the
         partners, officers, directors, legal counsel and accountants of
         each Holder, any underwriter (as defined in the Securities Act)
         for such Holder and each person, if any, who controls such Holder
         or underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act or the
         Exchange Act against any losses, claims, expenses, damages, or
         liabilities (joint or several) to which they may become subject
         under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any other securities
         or other law of any jurisdiction, common law or otherwise, insofar
         as such losses, claims, expenses, damages, or liabilities (or
         actions proceedings or settlements in respect thereof) arise out
         of or are based upon any of the following statements, omissions or
         violations (collectively, "Violations" and, individually, a
         "Violation"):

                        (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue
                  statement of a material fact contained in or incorporated
                  by reference in any Registration Statement, including any
                  preliminary prospectus or final prospectus contained
                  therein or any amendments or supplements thereto or any
                  document incorporated by reference therein;

                        (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state
                  therein a material fact required to be stated therein, or
                  necessary to make the statements therein not misleading,
                  or

                        (iii) any violation or alleged violation by the
                  Company of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or any
                  other securities or other law of any jurisdiction, common
                  law or otherwise, or any rule or regulation promulgated
                  under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any such
                  other laws, in connection with the offering covered by
                  such Registration Statement; and the Company will
                  reimburse each such Holder, partner, officer or director,
                  underwriter or controlling person for any legal or other
                  expenses reasonably incurred by them, as incurred, in
                  connection with investigating or defending any such loss,
                  claim, damage, liability or action; provided, however,
                  that the indemnity agreement contained in this subsection
                  1.06(a) shall not apply to amounts paid in settlement of
                  any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action if such
                  settlement is effected without the consent of the Company
                  (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), nor
                  shall the Company be liable in any such case for any such
                  loss, claim, damage, liability or action to the extent
                  that it arises out of or is based upon a Violation which
                  occurs in reliance upon and in conformity with written
                  information furnished expressly for use in connection
                  with such registration by such Holder, partner, officer,
                  director, underwriter or controlling person of such
                  Holder.

                  (b) By Selling Holders. To the extent permitted by law,
         each selling Holder, severally and not jointly, will indemnify and
         hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its
         officers who have signed the Registration Statement, each person,
         if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the
         Securities Act, its legal counsel, its accountants, any
         underwriter and any other Holder selling securities under such
         Registration Statement or any of such other Holder's partners,
         directors or officers or any person who controls such Holder
         within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act,
         against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (joint or
         several) to which the Company or any such director, officer,
         controlling person, legal counsel, accountant, underwriter or
         other such Holder, partner or director, officer or controlling
         person of such other Holder may become subject under the
         Securities Act, the Exchange Act or any other securities or other
         law of any jurisdiction, common law or otherwise, insofar as such
         losses, claims, expenses, damages or liabilities (or actions in
         respect thereto) arise out of or are based upon any Violation, in
         each case to the extent (and only to the extent) that such
         Violation occurs in reliance upon and in conformity with written
         information furnished by such Holder expressly for use in
         connection with such registration; and each such Holder will
         reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the
         Company or any such director, officer, controlling person, legal
         counsel, accountant, underwriter or other Holder, partner,
         officer, director, legal counsel, accountant or controlling person
         of such other Holder in connection with investigating or defending
         any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action; provided,
         however, that the indemnity agreement contained in this subsection
         1.06(b) shall not apply to amounts paid in settlement of any such
         loss, claim, damage, liability or action if such settlement is
         effected without the consent of the Holder, which consent shall
         not be unreasonably withheld; and provided, further, that the
         total amounts payable by a Holder under this Section 1.06 in
         respect of any Violation shall not exceed the net proceeds
         received by such Holder in the registered offering out of which
         such Violation arises.

                  (c) Notice. Promptly after receipt by an indemnified
         party under this Section 1.06 of notice of the commencement of any
         action (including any governmental action), such indemnified party
         will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against any
         indemnifying party under this Section 1.06, deliver to the
         indemnifying party a written notice of the commencement thereof
         and the indemnifying party shall have the right to participate in,
         and, to the extent the indemnifying party so desires, jointly with
         any other indemnifying party similarly noticed, to assume the
         defense thereof with counsel mutually satisfactory to the parties;
         provided, however, that an indemnified party shall have the right
         to retain its own counsel, with the fees and expenses to be paid
         by the indemnifying party, if representation of such indemnified
         party by the counsel retained by the indemnifying party would be
         inappropriate due to actual or potential conflict of interests
         between such indemnified party and any other party represented by
         such counsel in such proceeding or if, and for such period, such
         indemnified party was required to retain counsel prior to the
         indemnifying party's retention of counsel. The failure to deliver
         written notice to the indemnifying party within a reasonable time
         of the commencement of any such action shall relieve such
         indemnifying party of its liability to the indemnified party under
         this Section 1.06 only if and to the extent it is prejudicial to
         its ability to defend such action, and the omission to so deliver
         written notice to the indemnifying party will not relieve it of
         any liability that it may have to any indemnified party otherwise
         than under this Section 1.06.

                  (d) Defect Eliminated in Final Prospectus. The foregoing
         indemnity agreements of the Company and Holders are subject to the
         limitation that, insofar as they relate to any Violation made in a
         preliminary prospectus but eliminated or remedied in the amended
         prospectus on file with the SEC at the time the Registration
         Statement in question becomes effective or the amended prospectus
         filed with the SEC pursuant to SEC Rule 424(b) (the "Final
         Prospectus"), such indemnity agreement shall not inure to the
         benefit of any person if a copy of the Final Prospectus was
         furnished to the indemnified party and was not furnished to the
         person asserting the loss, liability, claim or damage at or prior
         to the time such action is required by the Securities Act.

                  (e) Contribution. In order to provide for just and
         equitable contribution to joint liability under the Securities
         Act, in any case in which either (i) any Holder exercising rights
         under this Agreement, or any controlling person of any such
         Holder, makes a claim for indemnification pursuant to this Section
         1.06 but it is judicially determined (by the entry of a final
         judgment or decree by a court of competent jurisdiction and the
         expiration of time to appeal or the denial of the last right of
         appeal) that such indemnification may not be enforced or is
         otherwise unavailable in such case notwithstanding the fact that
         this Section 1.06 provides for indemnification in such case, or
         (ii) contribution under the Securities Act may be required on the
         part of any such selling Holder or any such controlling person in
         circumstances for which indemnification is provided under this
         Section 1.06; then, and in each such case, the Company and such
         Holder will contribute to the aggregate losses, claims, damages or
         liabilities to which they may be subject (after contribution from
         others) in such proportion so that such Holder is responsible for
         the portion represented by the percentage that the public offering
         price of its Registrable Securities offered by and sold under the
         Registration Statement bears to the public offering price of all
         securities offered by and sold under such Registration Statement,
         and the Company and other selling Holders are responsible for the
         remaining portion; provided, however, that, in any such case, (A)
         no such Holder will be required to contribute any amount in excess
         of the net proceeds received from the sale of all such Registrable
         Securities offered and sold by such Holder pursuant to such
         Registration Statement; and (B) no person or entity guilty of
         fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f)
         of the Securities Act) will be entitled to contribution from any
         person or entity who was not guilty of such fraudulent
         misrepresentation.

                  (f) Survival; Release. The obligations of the Company and
         Holders under this Section 1.06 shall survive the completion of
         any offering of Registrable Securities in a Registration Statement
         and otherwise. No indemnifying party, in the defense of any such
         claim or litigation, shall, except with the consent of each
         indemnified party, consent to entry of any judgment or enter into
         any settlement which admits fault on behalf of the indemnified
         party or which does not include as an unconditional term thereof
         the giving by the claimant or plaintiff to such indemnified party
         of a release from all liability in respect to such claim or
         litigation.

         Section 1.07. "MARKET STAND-OFF" AGREEMENT. Each Holder hereby
agrees that it shall not, to the extent requested by the Company or an
underwriter of securities of the Company, sell or otherwise transfer or
dispose of any Registrable Securities or other shares of stock of the
Company then owned by such Holder (other than to donees of the Holder who
agree to be similarly bound) for up to ninety (90) days following the
effective date of a Registration Statement of the Company for an
underwritten offering filed under the Securities Act; provided that all
officers and directors of the Company have entered into similar agreements.
In order to enforce the foregoing covenant, the Company shall have the
right to place restrictive legends on the certificates representing the
shares subject to this Section and to impose stop transfer instructions
with respect to the Registrable Securities and such other shares of each
Holder (and the shares or securities of every other person subject to the
foregoing restriction) until the end of such period.

         Section 1.08. TERMINATION OF THE COMPANY'S OBLIGATIONS. The
Company shall have no obligations pursuant to Section 1.02 or 1.03 with
respect to any Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by a Holder in a
registration pursuant to Section 1.02 if, in the opinion of counsel to the
Company, all such Registrable Securities proposed to be sold by a Holder
and all other Common Shares then owned by such Holder may be sold in a
three-month period without registration under the Securities Act pursuant
to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In such event, such Holder shall not
be subject to the provisions of Section 1.07.

                                ARTICLE II

                          ASSIGNMENT AND AMENDMENT

         Section 2.01. ASSIGNMENT. The rights of a Holder under this
Agreement may be assigned to any party who acquires any of the Registrable
Securities of such Holder in compliance with all provisions of this
Agreement and the Warrant; provided, however that any such assignee shall
receive such assigned rights subject to all the terms and conditions of
this Agreement. The Holder shall provide the Company with written notice
promptly after such assignment stating the name and address of the assignee
and identifying the securities of the Company as to which the rights in
question are being assigned.

         Section 2.02. AMENDMENT. Any provision of this Agreement may be
amended and the observance thereof may be waived (either generally or in a
particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively), only with
the written consent of the Company and Holders holding Registrable
Securities representing more than fifty percent (50%) of all the
Registrable Securities (on an as-converted basis). Any amendment or waiver
effected in accordance with this Section 2.02 shall be binding upon each
Holder and the Company.

                                ARTICLE III

                             GENERAL PROVISIONS

         Section 3.01. NOTICES. Any and all notices required or permitted
to be given to a party pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement must be
in writing and will be effective and deemed to provide such party
sufficient notice under this Agreement on the earliest of the following:
(i) at the time of personal delivery, if delivery is in person; (ii) at the
time of transmission by facsimile, addressed to the other party at its
facsimile number, with confirmation of receipt made by both telephone and
printed confirmation sheet verifying successful transmission of the
facsimile; (iii) one (1) business day after deposit with an express
overnight courier for deliveries within a country, or three (3) business
days after such deposit for international deliveries or (iv) three (3)
business days after deposit in mail by certified mail (return receipt
requested) or equivalent for deliveries within a country.

         All notices for international delivery will be sent by facsimile
or by express courier. All notices not delivered personally or by facsimile
will be sent with postage and/or other charges prepaid and properly
addressed to the party to be notified at the following address or facsimile
number:

         Company:          KFx Inc.
                           1999 Broadway, Suite 3200
                           Denver, Colorado 80202
                           Facsimile:  (303) 293-8430
                           Attention:  Chief Financial Officer

         Landrica:         Landrica Development Company
                           P.O. Box 1400
                           Rapid City, South Dakota  57709-1400
                           Facsimile:  (605) 721-2599
                           Attention:  Gary R. Fish

         New Holders:      As set forth in the written notice to the Company
                           pursuant to Section 2.01.

         Any party hereto (and such party's permitted assigns) may by
notice so given change its address for future notices hereunder. Notice
shall conclusively be deemed to have been given in the manner set forth
above.

         Section 3.02. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement and the Warrant
constitute and contain the entire agreement and understanding of the
parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and
all prior negotiations, correspondence, agreements, understandings, duties
or obligations between the parties respecting the subject matter hereof.

         Section 3.03. GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by,
and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.

         Section 3.04. NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES. This Agreement shall
be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of the parties hereto and
their permitted assigns and nothing herein, express or implied, is intended
to or shall confer upon any other person any legal or equitable right,
benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this
Agreement.

         Section 3.05. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. The provisions of this
Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the
successors and permitted assigns of the parties hereto.

         Section 3.06. HEADINGS. The descriptive headings contained in this
Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any
way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.

         Section 3.07. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in one
or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same
agreement.

         Section 3.08. EXPENSES. All costs and expenses, including, without
limitation, fees and disbursements of counsel, financial advisors and
accountants, incurred in connection with this Agreement and the
transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such
costs and expenses.

         Section 3.09. CONSTRUCTION. Words used herein, regardless of the
gender specifically used, shall be deemed and construed to include any
other gender, masculine, feminine or neuter, as the context requires.

                [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank]



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this
Agreement as of the date and year first written above.


                                            THE COMPANY:

                                            KFX INC.


                                            By: /s/ Seth L. Patterson
                                              ---------------------------------
                                            Name:  Seth L. Patterson
                                            Title: Executive Vice President and
                                                   Chief Financial Officer


                                            HOLDER:

                                            LANDRICA DEVELOPMENT COMPANY


                                            By: /s/ Gary R. Fish
                                               --------------------------------
                                            Name:  Gary R. Fish
                                            Title: President



             [SIGNATURE PAGE TO REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT]




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>14
<FILENAME>0014.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.34 - 1996 STOCK OPTION AND INCENTIVE PLAN
<TEXT>





                    1996 STOCK OPTION AND INCENTIVE PLAN

                                     OF

                                  KFX INC.





<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                             TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                    Page


                                 ARTICLE I

                                DEFINITIONS
<S>      <C>             <C>                                                                           <C>
         Section 1.01.   General.......................................................................1
         Section 1.02.   Gender and Number.............................................................3

                                 ARTICLE II

                           SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN

         Section 2.01.   Shares Subject to Plan........................................................3
         Section 2.02.   Effect of Certain Exercises...................................................4

                                ARTICLE III

                            GRANTING OF OPTIONS

         Section 3.01.   Eligibility...................................................................4
         Section 3.02.   Disqualification for Stock Ownership..........................................4
         Section 3.03.   Qualification of Incentive Stock Options......................................4
         Section 3.04.   Granting of Options...........................................................4
         Section 3.05.   Non-Employee Directors........................................................5

                                 ARTICLE IV

                              TERMS OF OPTIONS

         Section 4.01.   Option Agreement..............................................................6
         Section 4.02.   Option Price..................................................................6
         Section 4.03.   Option Term...................................................................6
         Section 4.04.   Option Vesting................................................................6
         Section 4.05.   Exercise of Option After Termination of Employment............................7
         Section 4.06.   Consideration.................................................................7

                                 ARTICLE V

                            EXERCISE OF OPTIONS

         Section 5.01.   Partial Exercise..............................................................7
         Section 5.02.   Manner of Exercise............................................................8
         Section 5.03.   Transfer of Shares to an Employee.............................................8
         Section 5.04.   Certain Timing Requirements...................................................8
         Section 5.05.   Conditions to Issuance of Stock Certificates..................................9
         Section 5.06.   Rights as Stockholders........................................................9
         Section 5.07.   Transfer Restrictions.........................................................9
         Section 5.08.   Restrictions on Exercise of Option............................................9


                                 ARTICLE VI

                         AWARD OF RESTRICTED STOCK

         Section 6.01.   Eligibility Restricted........................................................9
         Section 6.02.   Award of Restricted Stock....................................................10

                                ARTICLE VII

                         TERMS OF RESTRICTED STOCK

         Section 7.01.   Restricted Stock Agreement...................................................10
         Section 7.02.   Consideration to the Company.................................................10
         Section 7.03.   Rights as Stockholders.......................................................10
         Section 7.04.   Restrictions.................................................................10
         Section 7.05.   Repurchase of Restricted Stock...............................................11
         Section 7.06.   Escrow.......................................................................11
         Section 7.07.   Legend.......................................................................11

                                ARTICLE VIII

                             PERFORMANCE AWARDS

         Section 8.01.   Eligibility..................................................................11
         Section 8.02.   Performance Awards...........................................................11
         Section 8.03.   Performance Award Agreement..................................................12
         Section 8.04.   Term.........................................................................12
         Section 8.05.   Exercise Upon Termination of Employment......................................12
         Section 8.06.   Payment on Exercise..........................................................12
         Section 8.07.   Consideration................................................................12

                                 ARTICLE IX

                               ADMINISTRATION

         Section 9.01.   Compensation Committee.......................................................12
         Section 9.02.   Duties and Powers of Committee...............................................12
         Section 9.03.   Majority Rule................................................................13
         Section 9.04.   Compensation; Professional Assistance; Good Faith Actions....................13
         Section 9.05.   No Liability.................................................................13
         Section 9.06.   Indemnification..............................................................13

                                 ARTICLE X

                          MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

         Section 10.01.   Not Transferable............................................................13
         Section 10.02.   Amendment, Suspension or Termination of this Plan...........................14
         Section 10.03.   Changes in Common Stock or Assets of the Company............................14
         Section 10.04.   Merger of the Company.......................................................15
         Section 10.05.   Approval of Plan by Stockholders............................................15
         Section 10.06.   Tax Withholding.............................................................15
         Section 10.07.   Loans.......................................................................15
         Section 10.08.   Limitations Applicable to Section 16 Persons................................16
         Section 10.09.   Plan Designation and Status.................................................16
         Section 10.10.   Release of Restrictions.....................................................16
         Section 10.11.   Effect of Plan Upon Options and Compensation Plans..........................16
         Section 10.12.   Effect of Change of Subsidiary Status.......................................16
         Section 10.13.   Compliance with Laws........................................................17
         Section 10.14.   Titles......................................................................17
         Section 10.15    Governing Law...............................................................17
         Section 10.16.   Severability................................................................17
</TABLE>



                  1996 STOCK OPTION AND INCENTIVE PLAN OF
                                  KFX INC.

         KFx Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), has adopted this
1996 Stock Option and Incentive Plan of KFx Inc. (the "Plan"), effective
April 26, 1996, for the benefit of its eligible Employees.

         The purposes of this Plan are as follows:

                  (a) To provide an additional incentive for key Employees
         and other persons associated with the Company to further the
         growth, development and financial success of the Company by
         personally benefiting through the ownership of Common Stock and/or
         rights which recognize such growth, development and financial
         success.

                  (b) To enable the Company to obtain and retain the
         services of key Employees and other persons associated with the
         Company considered essential to the long-range success of the
         Company by offering them an opportunity to own stock in the
         Company and/or rights which will reflect the growth, development
         and financial success of the Company.


                                 ARTICLE I

                                DEFINITIONS

     Section 1.01. General. Wherever the following terms are used in this
Plan they shall have the meaning specified below, unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise.

         "Beneficiary" shall mean the person or persons properly designated
by the Optionee or Grantee, including his spouse or heirs at law, to
exercise such Optionee's or Grantee's rights under this Plan in the event
of the Optionee's or Grantee's death, or if the Optionee or Grantee has not
designated such person or persons, or such person or persons shall all have
pre-deceased the Optionee or Grantee, the executor or administrator of the
Optionee's or Grantee's estate. Designation, revocation and redesignation
of Beneficiaries must be made in writing in accordance with rules
established by the Committee and shall be effective upon delivery to the
Committee.

         "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.

         "Bylaws" shall mean the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of the
Company, as amended from time to time.

         "Certificate of Incorporation" shall mean the Company's Restated
Certificate of Incorporation on file with the Delaware Secretary of State.

         "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Cede of 1986, as amended.

         "Committee" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board,
appointed as provided in Section 9 and the Bylaws of the Company.

         "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock of the Company, par
value $.001 per share, as presently constituted and any equity security of
the Company issued or authorized to be issued in the future, but excluding
any warrants, options or other rights to purchase Common Stock, and
provided that debt securities of the Company convertible into Common Stock
shall be deemed equity securities of the Company.

         "Company" shall mean KFx Inc., a Delaware corporation.

         "Company Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation in an unbroken
chain of corporations beginning with the Company if each of the
corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain then
owns stock possessing 50 percent or more of the total combined voting power
of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in such chain.
"Company Subsidiary" shall also mean any partnership in which the Company
and/or any Company Subsidiary owns more than 50 percent of the capital or
profits interests.

         "Director" shall mean a member of the Board.

         "Employee" shall mean any officer or other employee (as defined in
accordance with Section 3401(c) of the Code) of the Company, or of any
Company Subsidiary and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, any
persons associated with the Company.

         "Expiration Date" shall mean the last day of the term of the
Option as established in Section 4.03.

         "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

         "Fair Market Value" of a share of Common Stock as of a given date
shall be the average of the daily market price for the five (5) consecutive
trading days immediately preceding the valuation date. The market price for
each such trading day shall be: (i) if the shares of Common Stock are
listed or admitted to trading on any securities exchange or the
NASDAQ-National Market System, the closing price, regular way, on such day,
or if no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid
and asked prices on such day, (ii) if the shares of Common Stock are not
listed or admitted to trading on any securities exchange or the
NASDAQ-National Market System, the last reported sale price on such day or,
if no sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and
asked prices on such day, as reported by a reliable quotation source
designated by the Company, or (iii) if the shares of Common Stock are not
listed or admitted to trading on any securities exchange or the
NASDAQ-National Market System and no such last reported sale price or
closing bid and asked prices are available, the average of the reported
high bid and low asked prices on such day, as reported by a reliable
quotation source designated by the Company, or if there shall be no bid and
asked prices on such day, the average of the high bid and low asked prices,
as so reported, on the most recent day (not more than 10 days prior to the
date in question) for which prices have been so reported; provided that if
there are no bid and asked prices reported during the 10 days prior to the
date in question, the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock shall
be determined by the Company acting in good faith on the basis of such
quotations and other information as it considers, in its reasonable
judgment, appropriate.

         "Grantee" shall mean an Employee or other person associated with
the Company granted a Performance Award under this Plan.

         "Incentive Stock Option" shall mean an Option which conforms to
the applicable provisions of Section 422 of the Code and which is
designated as an Incentive Stock Option by the Committee.

         "Non-Employee Director" shall mean each person who is then a
member of the Board and who is not then an Employee of the Company or any
of its subsidiaries.

         "Non-Qualified Stock Option" shall mean an Option which is not an
Incentive Stock Option and which is designated as a Non-Qualified Stock
Option by the Committee.

         "Option" shall mean a stock option granted pursuant to this Plan.
An Option granted under this Plan shall, as determined by the Committee, be
either a Non-Qualified Stock Option or an Incentive Stock Option.

         "Optionee" shall mean an Employee, Non-Employee Director or person
associated with the Company and who is granted an Option under this Plan.

         "Participant" shall mean a person who has received any type of
award under this Plan.

         "Performance Award" shall mean a cash bonus, stock bonus or other
performance or incentive award that is paid in cash, stock or a combination
of both.

         "Plan" shall mean this 1996 Stock Option and Incentive Plan of KFx
Inc.

         "Restricted Stock" shall mean Common Stock awarded pursuant to
Article VII of this Plan.

         "Restricted Stockholder" shall mean an Employee to whom Restricted
Stock has been awarded under this Plan.

         "Rule 16b-3" shall mean that certain Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange
Act, as such Rule may be amended in the future.

         "Termination of Employment" shall mean the time when the
employee-employer relationship between the Optionee, Grantee or Restricted
Stockholder and the Company or a Company Subsidiary is terminated for any
reason, including, but not by way of limitation, a termination by
resignation, discharge, death, permanent and total disability or
retirement; but excluding (i) terminations where there is a simultaneous
reemployment or continuing employment of an Optionee, Grantee or Restricted
Stockholder by the Company or a Company Subsidiary and (ii) at the
discretion of the Committee, terminations which result in a temporary
severance of the employee-employer relationship that do not exceed one
year. The Committee, in its absolute discretion, shall determine the effect
of all other matters and questions relating to Termination of Employment,
including, but not by way of limitation, the question of whether a
Termination of Employment resulted from a discharge for good cause, and all
questions of whether particular leaves of absence constitute Terminations
of Employment; provided, however, that, with respect to Incentive Stock
Options, a leave of absence shall constitute a Termination of Employment
if, and to the extent that, such leave of absence interrupts employment for
the purposes of Section 422(a)(2) of the Code and the then applicable
regulations and revenue rulings under said Section. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Plan, the Company or any Company Subsidiary has an
absolute and unrestricted right to terminate an Employee's employment at
any time for any reason whatsoever, with or without cause, except to the
extent expressly provided otherwise in writing.

         Section 1.02. Gender and Number. Wherever the masculine gender is
used it shall include the feminine and neuter, and wherever a singular
pronoun is used it shall include the plural, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.


                                 ARTICLE II

                           SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN

         Section 2.01. Shares Subject to Plan. The shares subject to
Options, Restricted Stock Awards or Performance Awards shall initially be
shares of Common Stock, as presently constituted, and the aggregate number
of such shares which may be issued upon exercise of such options or rights
or upon any such awards shall not exceed 1,500,000 shares, which equals
approximately 7% of the Common Stock outstanding on April 26, 1996. The
shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise or grant of an Option or
Performance Award, or as Restricted Stock, may be either previously
authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have been repurchased
by the Company. If any equity securities of the Company, other than Common
Stock, are issued or authorized to be issued, the Committee shall
determine, on a fair and equitable basis, the appropriate number of shares
of the Company's present common stock to be deemed issued or issuable with
respect to such other equity securities for purposes of this Section 2.01.

         Section 2.02. Effect of Certain Exercises. If a Performance Award
based on the increased market value of a specified number of shares of
Common Stock is paid, the number of shares of Common Stock to which such
exercise or payment relates under such Performance Award shall be charged
against the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued
under this Plan. If any shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to any
Option or other right to acquire shares of Common Stock provided for under
this Plan are surrendered to the Company as payment for the exercise price
of said Opion or other right to acquire shares of Common Stock, the number
of shares of Common Stock issuable but so surrendered shall be charged
against the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued
under this Plan. In the event the Company withholds shares of Common Stock
for tax withholding purposes pursuant to Section 10.06 hereof, the number
of shares that would have been issuable but that are withheld pursuant to
the provisions of Section 10.06 shall be charged against the maximum number
of shares of Common Stock that may be issued under this Plan.


                                ARTICLE III

                            GRANTING OF OPTIONS

     Section 3.01. Eligibility. Any Employee or person associated with the
Company and selected by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.04(a)(i) shall
be eligible to be granted an Option.

         Section 3.02. Disqualification for Stock Ownership. No person may
be granted an Incentive Stock Option under this Plan if such person, at the
time the Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock possessing more than
ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of
stock of the Company or any then existing Company Subsidiary unless such
Incentive Stock Option conforms to the applicable provisions of Section 422
of the Code.

         Section 3.03. Qualification of Incentive Stock Options. No
Incentive Stock Option shall be granted unless such Option, when granted,
qualifies as an Incentive Stock Option under Section 422 of the Code. Any
option purporting to constitute an Incentive Stock Option in violation of
the provisions of Section 422 of the Code shall constitute a Non-Qualified
Stock Option.

         Section 3.04.   Granting of Options.

                    (a) The Committee shall from time to time, in its
          absolute discretion:

                           (i) Determine which Employees or persons
                  associated with the Company are key Employees and select
                  from among the key Employees or such persons (including
                  Employees or persons to whom Options or Performance
                  Awards have previously been granted and/or shares of
                  Restricted Stock have previously been issued) such of
                  them as in its opinion should be granted Options;

                           (ii) Determine the number of shares to be
                  subject to such Options granted to the selected key
                  Employees or such persons;

                           (iii) Determine whether such Options are to be
                  Incentive Stock Options or Non-Qualified Stock Options;
                  and

                           (iv) Determine the terms and conditions of such
                  Options, consistent with this Plan.

                    (b) Upon the selection of a key Employee or persons
          associated with the Company to be granted an Option, the
          Committee shall instruct the Secretary of the Company to issue
          the Option and may impose such conditions on the grant of the
          Option as it deems appropriate. Without limiting the generality
          of the preceding sentence, the Committee may, in its discretion
          and on such terms as it deems appropriate, require as a condition
          on the grant of an Option to an Employee that the Employee
          surrender for cancellation some or all of the unexercised Options
          or Performance Awards or other rights which have been previously
          granted to him under this Plan. An Option, the grant of which is
          conditioned upon such surrender, tony have an option price lower
          (or higher) than the exercise price of such surrendered Option or
          Performance Award. may cover the same (or a lesser or greater)
          number of shares as such surrendered right, may contain such
          other terms as the Committee deems appropriate, and shall be
          exercisable in accordance with its terms, without regard to the
          number of shares, price, exercise period or any other term or
          condition of such surrendered right.

                  (c) Any Incentive Stock Option granted under this Plan
         may be modified by the Committee to disqualify such option from
         treatment as an Incentive Stock Option.

         Section 3.05. Non-Employee Directors. Notwithstanding anything in
this Plan to the contrary, Non-Employee Directors are only eligible to
receive Options under this Plan and such Options may only be granted
pursuant to the provisions contained in this Section 3.05.

                  (a) Each year on the third business day following the
         Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Grant Date") each
         Non-Employee Director shall automatically, without fttrther action
         by the Board or the Committee, be granted a Non-Qualified Stock
         Option to purchase 10,000 shares of Common Stock.

                           (i) If on the Grant Date the Company is in
                  possession of material, undisclosed information that
                  would prevent it from issuing securities, then the grant
                  of the Options will be suspended until the third day
                  after the public dissemination of the information (or the
                  first trading day thereafter). Only the legal counsel to
                  the Company may suspend the Grant Date; the amount,
                  pricing and other terms of the grant will remain as set
                  forth in this Section 3.05.

                  (b) All Non-Qualified Stock Options granted pursuant to
         Section 3.05(a) above, shall vest immediately on the date of grant
         and be immediately exercisable upon grant; provided, however, that
         shares of Common Stock acquired upon exercise of the Non-Qualified
         Option are subject to repurchase by the Company at the exercise
         price if the Non-Employee Director ceases to serve as a Director
         of the Company prior to the first anniversary of the Grant Date,
         for any reason other than death.

                  (c) Only Non-Qualified Stock Options may be granted under
         this Section 3.05. The price per share of the Common Stock subject
         to each Option granted under the Plan shall not be less than 100%
         of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock as of the date the
         Option is granted.

                  (d) In addition to the provisions contained in Section
         10.02 of this Plan, neither the Board nor the Committee may amend,
         more than once every six months, the provisions of the Plan
         regarding (i) the selection of the Non-Employee Directors to whom
         Options are to be granted, (ii) the timing of such grants, (iii)
         the number of shares subject to any Option, (iv) the exercise
         price of any Option, (v) the periods during which any Option may
         be exercised, and (vi) the term of any Option, other than to
         comport with changes in the Code, as amended, the Employee
         Retirement Income Security Act, as amended, or the rules and
         regulations thereunder.


                                 ARTICLE IV

                              TERMS OF OPTIONS

         Section 4.01. Option Agreement. Each Option shall be evidenced by
a written stock option agreement, which shall be executed by the Optionee
and an authorized officer of the Company and which shall contain such terms
and conditions as the Committee shall determine, consistent with this Plan.
Stock option agreements evidencing Incentive Stock Options shall contain
such terms and conditions as may be necessary to meet the applicable
provisions of Section 422 of the Code.

         Section 4.02. Option Price. The price per share of the shares
subject to each Option shall be set by the Committee; provided, however,
that such price shall be no less than the par value of a share of Common
Stock and in the case of Incentive Stock Options such price shall not be
less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock as of
the date the Option is granted: provided further, that in the case of
Incentive Stock Options such price shall be no less than 110% of the Fair
Market Value of a share of Common Stock as of the date the Option is
granted if such Option is granted to a person who owns ten percent (10%) or
more of the issued and outstanding Common Stock of the Company as of such
date.

         Section 4.03. Option Term. The term of an Option shall be set by
the Committee in its discretion; provided, however, that no such term shall
exceed a reasonable time period, and provided further that, in the case of
Incentive Stock Options, the term shall not be more than ten (10) years
from the date the Incentive Stock Option is granted. The last day of the
term of the Option shall be the Option's Expiration Date.

         Section 4.04.   Option Vesting.

                  (a) The period during which the right to exercise an
         Option in whole or in part vests in the Optionee shall be set by
         the Committee, and the Committee may determine that an Option may
         not be exercised in whole or in part for a specified period after
         it is granted; provided, however, that no Option shall be
         exercisable by any Optionee who is then subject to Section 16 of
         the Exchange Act within the period ending six months after the
         date the Option is granted. At any time after grant of an Option,
         the Committee may, in its sole discretion and subject to whatever
         terms and conditions it selects, accelerate the period during
         which an Option vests.

                  (b) No portion of an Option which is unexercisable at
         Termination of Employment shall thereafter become exercisable;
         provided, however, that provision may be made that such Option
         shall become exercisable, with the consent of the Committee, in
         the event of a Termination of Employment because of the Optionee's
         normal retirement or permanent and total disability (each as
         determined by the Committee in accordance with Company policies),
         death or early retirement.

                  (c) To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of
         the Common Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options
         (without regard to Section 422(d) of the Code) are exercisable for
         the first time by an Optionee during any calendar year (under the
         Plan and all other incentive stock option plans of the Company or
         any Company Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, such Options shall be
         treated as Non-Qualified Options to the extent required by Section
         422 of the Code. The rule set forth in the preceding sentence
         shall be applied by taking Options into account in the order in
         which they were granted. For purposes of this Section 4.04(c), the
         Fair Market Value of the Common Stock shall be determined as of
         the time the Option, with respect to such Common Stock, is
         granted.

          Section 4.05. Exercise of Option After Termination of Employment.
For those Participants who are Employees, an Option is exercisable by an
Optionee only while he is an Employee. The preceding notwithstanding, the
Committee may determine that an Option may be exercised subsequent to an
Optionee's Termination of Employment, subject to the following limitations:

                  (a) If the Optionee dies while an Option is exercisable
         under the terms of this Plan, the Optionee's Beneficiary may
         exercise such rights, to the extent the Optionee could have done
         so immediately preceding his death. Any such Option must be
         exercised within twelve (12) months after the Optionee's death,
         and the Committee may in its discretion extend the Expiration Date
         of such Option to accommodate such exercise; provided, however,
         that the term of an Incentive Stock Option may not be extended
         beyond ten (10) years from the date of grant.

                  (b) If the Optionee's employment is terminated due to his
         permanent and total disability, as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of
         the Code, the Optionee may exercise his Option, to the extent
         exercisable as of his Termination of Employment, within twelve
         (12) months after termination, but no later than the Option's
         Expiration Date.

                  (c) If the Oprionee's employment is terminated for any
         reason other than those set forth in subsection (a) or (b) above,
         the Optionee may exercise his Option, to the extent exercisable as
         of his Termination of Employment, within three (3) months after
         Termination of Employment, but not later than the Option's
         Expiration Date.

         Section 4.06. Consideration. In consideration of the granting of a
Non-Qualified Stock Option, the Optionee shall agree, in a written stock
option agreement, to remain in the employ of, or associated with, the
Company or a Company Subsidiary for a period of time to be determined by
the Committee after the Non- Qualified Stock Option is granted or upon such
other terms and conditions as deemed appropriate by the Committee. In
consideration of the granting of an Incentive Stock Option, the Optionee
shall agree, in a written stock option agreement, to remain in the employ
of the Company or a Company Subsidiary for a period of time to be
determined by the Committee after the Incentive Stock Option is granted or
upon those terms and conditions as deemed appropriate by the Committee. If
no period of time for employment by the Company is set in such written
stock option agreement, no time of employment shall be required. Nothing in
this Plan or in any stock option agreement hereunder shall confer upon any
Optionee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Company
Subsidiary.


                                 ARTICLE V

                            EXERCISE OF OPTIONS

         Section 5.01. Partial Exercise. An exercisable Option may be
exercised in whole or in part. However, an Option shall not be exercisable
with respect to fractional shares and the Committee may require that, by
the terms of the Option, a partial exercise be made with respect to a
minimum number of shares.

          Section 5.02. Manner of Exercise. All or a portion of an
exercisable Option shall be deemed exercised upon:

                  (a) Delivery of all of the following to the Secretary of
         the Company or his office:

                           (i) A written notice complying with the
                  applicable rules established by the Committee or the
                  Company stating that the Option, or a portion thereof, is
                  exercised. The notice shall be signed by the Optionee or
                  other person then entitled to exercise the Option or such
                  portion;

                           (ii) Such representations and documents as the
                  Committee, in its absolute discretion, deems necessary or
                  advisable to effect compliance with all applicable
                  provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
                  any other federal or state securities laws or
                  regulations. The Committee may, in its absolute
                  discretion, also take whatever additional actions it
                  deems appropriate to effect such compliance, including,
                  without limitation, placing legends on share certificates
                  and issuing stop-transfer notices to agents and
                  registrars; and

                           (iii) In the event that the Option shall be
                  exercised pursuant to Section 4.05(a) by any person or
                  persons other than the Optionee, appropriate proof of the
                  right of such person or persons to exercise the Option;
                  and

                  (b) Full cash payment to the Secretary of the Company for
         the shares with respect to which the Option, or portion thereof,
         is exercised. However, at the discretion of the Committee, the
         terms of the Option may (i) allow a delay in payment up to thirty
         (30) days from the date the Option, or portion thereof, is
         exercised; (ii) allow payment, in whole or in part, through the
         delivery of shares of Common Stock owned by the Optionees; (iii)
         allow payment, in whole or in part, through the surrender of
         shares of Common Stock then issuable upon exercise of the Option;
         or (iv) allow payment, in whole or in part, through the delivery
         of property of any kind which constitutes good and valuable
         consideration.

         Section 5.03. Transfer of Shares to an Employee. As soon as
practicable after receipt by the Company, pursuant to Section 5.02(b), of
full cash payment for the shares with respect to which an Option, or
portion thereof, is exercised by an Optionee, with respect to each such
exercise, the Company shall transfer to the Optionee the number of shares
equal to the quotient of:

                  (a) The amount of the payment made by the Optionee to the
         Company pursuant to Section 5.02(b), and

                  (b) The price per share of the Common Stock subject to
         the Option as determined pursuant to Section 4.02.

         Section 5.04. Certain Timing Requirements. At the discretion of
the Committee, shares of Common Stock issuable to the Optionee upon
exercise of the Option may be used to satisfy the Option exercise price or
the tax withholding consequences of such exercise only (i) during such
periods in which trading of the Common Stock is permitted for Employees of
the Company under Company policy as in effect from time to time or (ii)
pursuant to an irrevocable written election by the Optionee to use shares
of Common Stock issuable to the Optionee upon exercise of the Option to pay
all or part of the Option price or the withholding taxes made at least six
months prior to the payment of such Option price or withholding taxes.

         Section 5.05. Conditions to Issuance of Stock Certificates. The
Company shall not be required to issue or to deliver any certificate or
certificates for shares of stock purchased upon the exercise of any Option
or portion thereof prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions:

                  (a) The admission of such shares to listing on all stock
         exchanges or other contract markets on which such class of stock
         is then listed or traded;

                  (b) The completion of any registration or other
         qualification of such shares under any state or federal law, or
         under the rulings or regulations of the Securities and Exchange
         Commission or any other governmental regulatory body which the
         Committee shall, in its absolute discretion, deem necessary or
         advisable;

                  (c) Obtaining any approval or other clearance from any
         state or federal governmental agency which the Committee shall, in
         its absolute discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable;

                  (d) The lapse of such reasonable period of time following
         the exercise of the Option as the Committee may establish from
         time to time for reasons of administrative convenience; and

                  (e) The receipt by the Company of full payment for such
         shares, including payment of any applicable withholding tax.

         Section 5.06. Rights as Stockholders. The holders of Options shall
not be, nor have any of the rights or privileges of, stockholders of the
Company in respect of any shares purchasable upon the exercise of any part
of an Option unless and until certificates representing such shares have
been issued by the Company to such holders.

         Section 5.07. Transfer Restrictions. Shares acquired through the
exercise of an Option shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer set
forth in the Certificate of Incorporation. The Committee, in its absolute
discretion, may impose such additional restrictions on the transferability
of the shares purchasable upon the exercise of an Option as it deems
appropriate. Any such restriction shall be set forth in the respective
stock option agreement and may be referred to on the certificates
evidencing such shares. The Committee will require the Employee to give the
Company prompt notice of any disposition of shares of Common Stock acquired
by exercise of an Incentive Stock Option within (i) two years from the date
of granting such Option to such Employee or (ii) one year after the
transfer of such shares to such Employee. The Committee may direct that the
certificates evidencing shares acquired by exercise of an Option refer to
such requirement to give prompt notice of disposition.

         Section 5.08. Restrictions on Exercise of Option. An Option is not
exercisable if the exercise of such Option would likely result in the
Optionee's ownership of Common Stock being in violation of the Certificate
of Incorporation.


                                 ARTICLE VI

                         AWARD OF RESTRICTED STOCK

         Section 6.01. Eligibility. Restricted Stock may be awarded to any
Employee or person associated with the Company whom the Committee, pursuant
to Section 3.04(a)(i), determines is a key Employee or person associated
with the Company.

         Section 6.02.   Award of Restricted Stock.

                  (a) The Committee shall from time to time, in its
         absolute discretion:

                           (i) Select from among the key Employees
                  (including Employees to whom Options or Performance
                  Awards have previously been granted and/or shares of
                  Restricted Stock have previously been issued) or persons
                  associated with the Company such of them as in its
                  opinion should be awarded Restricted Stock; and

                           (ii) Determine the purchase price and other
                  terms and conditions applicable to such Restricted Stock,
                  consistent with this Plan.

                  (b) The Committee shall establish the purchase price and
         form of payment for Restricted Stock; provided, however, that such
         purchase price shall be no less than the par value of the Common
         Stock to be purchased. In all cases, legal consideration shall be
         required for each issuance of Restricted Stock.

                  (c) Upon the selection of a key Employee or persons
         associated with the Company to be awarded Restricted Stock, the
         Committee shall instruct the Secretary of the Company to issue
         such Restricted Stock and may impose such conditions on the
         issuance of such Restricted Stock as it deems appropriate.


                                ARTICLE VII

                         TERMS OF RESTRICTED STOCK

         Section 7.01. Restricted Stock Agreement. Restricted Stock shall
be issued only pursuant to a written Restricted Stock agreement, which
shall be executed by the selected key Employee or persons associated with
the Company and an authorized officer of the Company and which shall
contain such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine,
consistent with this Plan.

         Section 7.02. Consideration to the Company. As consideration for
the issuance of Restricted Stock, in addition to payment of the purchase
price, the selected key Employee or persons associated with the Company
shall agree, in the written Restricted Stock agreement, to remain in the
employ of, or associated with, the Company or a Company Subsidiary for a
period of time after the Restricted Stock is issued as determined by the
Committee. Nothing in this Plan or in any Restricted Stock agreement
hereunder shall confer on any Restricted Stockholder any right to continue
in the employ of the Company or any Company Subsidiary.

         Section 7.03. Rights as Stockholders. Upon delivery of the shares
of Restricted Stock to the escrow holder pursuant to Section 7.06, the
Restricted Stockholder shall have all the rights of a stockholder with
respect to said shares, subject to the restrictions in his Restricted Stock
agreement, including the right to vote the shares and to receive all
dividends and other distributions paid or made with respect to the shares;
provided, however, that in the discretion of the Committee, any
extraordinary distributions with respect to the Common Stock shall be
subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 7.04.

         Section 7.04. Restrictions. All shares of Restricted Stock issued
under this Plan (including any shares received by holders thereof with
respect to shares of Restricted Stock as a result of stock dividends, stock
splits or any other form of recapitalization) shall, in the terms of each
individual Restricted Stock agreement, be subject to such restrictions as
the Committee shall provide, which restrictions may include, without
limitation, restrictions based on duration of employment with the Company,
Company performance and individual performance; provided, however, that by
a resolution adopted after the Restricted Stock is issued, the Committee
may, on such terms and conditions as it may determine to be appropriate,
remove any or all of the restrictions imposed by the terms of the
Restricted Stock agreement. Restricted Stock may not be sold or encumbered
until all restrictions are terminated or expire.

         Section 7.05. Repurchase of Restricted Stock. The Committee shall
provide in the terms of each individual Restricted Stock agreement that the
Company shall have the right to repurchase from the Restricted Stockholder
the Restricted Stock then subject to restrictions under the Restricted
Stock agreement immediately upon a Termination of Employment or otherwise
for any reason at a cash price per share equal to the price paid by the
Restricted Stockholder for such Restricted Stock; provided, however, that
provision may be made that no such right of repurchase shall exist in the
event of a Termination of Employment because of the Restricted
Stockholder's retirement at or after age fifty-five (55), death or
permanent and total disability.

         Section 7.06. Escrow. The Secretary of the Company or such other
escrow holder as the Committee may appoint shall retain physical custody of
each certificate representing Restricted Stock until all of the
restrictions imposed under the Restricted Stock agreement with respect to
the shares evidenced by such certificate expire or shall have been removed.

         Section 7.07. Legend. In order to enforce the restrictions imposed
upon shares of Restricted Stock hereunder, the Committee shall cause a
legend or legends to be placed on certificates representing all shares of
Restricted Stock that are still subject to restrictions under Restricted
Stock agreements, which legend or legends shall make appropriate reference
to the conditions imposed thereby.


                                ARTICLE VIII

                             PERFORMANCE AWARDS

         Section 8.01. Eligibility. One or more Performance Awards may be
granted to any key Employee or person associated with the Company.

         Section 8.02.   Performance Awards.

                  (a) The Committee shall from time to time, in its
         absolute discretion:

                           (i) Select from among key Employees or persons
                  associated with the Company (including Employees to whom
                  Options or Performance Awards have previously been
                  granted and/or shares of Restricted Stock have previously
                  been issued) such of them as in its opinion should be
                  granted a Performance Award; and

                           (ii) Determine the purchase price and other
                  terms and conditions applicable to such Performance
                  Award, consistent with this Plan.

                  (b) The value of such Performance Awards may be linked to
         the market value, book value or other measure of the value of
         Common Stock or other specific performance criteria determined
         appropriate by the Committee, in each case on a specified date or
         dates or over any period or periods determined by the Committee,
         or may be based upon the appreciation in the market value, book
         value or other measure of the value of a specified number of
         shares of Common Stock over a fixed period or periods determined
         by the Committee. In making such determinations, the Committee
         shall consider (among such other factors as it deems relevant in
         light of the specific type of award) the contributions,
         responsibilities and other compensation of the key Employee or
         person associated with the Company whose Performance Award is at
         issue.

         Section 8.03. Performance Award Agreement. Each Performance Award
shall be evidenced by a written agreement, which shall be executed by the
Grantee and an authorized officer of the Company and which shall contain
such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine, consistent with
this Plan.

         Section 8.04. Term. The term of a Performance Award shall be set
by the Comniittab in its discretion.

         Section 8.05. Exercise Upon Termination of Employment. A
Performance Award is exercisable only while the Grantee is an Employee or
associated with the Company; provided that the Committee may determine that
the Performance Award may be exercised subsequent to Termination of
Employment to the extent permitted under Section 4.05 with respect to
Options.

         Section 8.06. Payment on Exercise. Payment of the amount
determined under Section 8.02 above shall be in cash, in Common Stock or a
combination of both, as determined by the Committee. To the extent such
payment is effected in Common Stock, it shall be made subject to
satisfaction of all provisions of Section 5.05 with respect to Options and
shall be no less than the par value of a share of Common Stock.

         Section 8.07. Consideration. In consideration of the granting of a
Performance Award, the Grantee shall agree, in a written agreement, to
remain in the employ of, or associated with, the Company or a Company
Subsidiary after such Performance Award is granted for a period of time as
determined by the Committee. Nothing in this Plan or in any agreement
hereunder shall confer on any Grantee any right to continue in the employ
of, or associate with, the Company or any Company Subsidiary.


                                 ARTICLE IX

                               ADMINISTRATION

         Section 9.01. Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee
shall consist of two or more Directors who are "outside directors" as
defined under Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated
thereunder, appointed by and holding office at the pleasure of the Board,
each of whom is not then an officer of the Company and each of whom is a
"disinterested person" as defined by Rule 16b-3. Appointment of Committee
members shall be effective upon acceptance of appointment. Committee
members may resign at any time by delivering written notice to the Board.
Vacancies in the Committee may be filled by the Board.

         Section 9.02. Duties and Powers of Committee. It shall be the duty
of the Committee to conduct the general administration of this Plan in
accordance with its provisions. The Committee shall have the power to
interpret this Plan, the Options, the Performance Awards and the Restricted
Stock, and the agreements pursuant to which the Options, Performance Awards
and Restricted Stock are granted or awarded, and to adopt such rules for
the administration, interpretation and application of this Plan as are
consistent therewith and to interpret, amend or revoke any such rules. Any
such grant or award under this Plan need not be the same with respect to
each Optionee, Grantee or Restricted Stockholder. Any such interpretations
and rules with respect to Incentive Stock Options shall be consistent with
the provisions of Section 422 of the Code. In its absolute discretion, the
Board may at any time and from time to time exercise any and all rights and
duties of the Committee under this Plan except with respect to matters
which under Rule 16b-3 are required to be determined in the sole discretion
of the Committee.

         Section 9.03. Majority Rule. The Committee shall act by a majority
of its members in attendance at a meeting, or to the extent permitted by
law and the Bylaws, by telephonic meeting, at which a quorum is present or
by a memorandum or other written instrument signed by all members of the
Committee.

         Section 9.04. Compensation; Professional Assistance; Good Faith
Actions. Members of the Committee shall receive such compensation for their
services as members as may be determined by the Board. All expenses and
liabilities which members of the Committee incur in connection with the
administration of this Plan shall be borne by the Company. The Committee
may, with the approval of the Board, employ attorneys, consultants,
accountants, appraisers, brokers or other persons. The Committee, the
Company and the Company's officers and Directors shall be entitled to rely
upon the advice, opinions or valuations of any such persons. All actions
taken and all interpretations and determinations made by the Committee in
good faith shall be final and binding upon all Options, Grantees,
Restricted Stockholders, the Company and all other interested persons. No
members of the Committee shall be personally liable for any action,
determination or interpretation made in good faith with respect to this
Plan, any Option, any Performance Award or any Restricted Stock, and all
members of the Committee shall be fully protected by the Company in respect
of any such action, determination or interpretation.

         Section 9.05. No Liability. No member of the Board or the
Committee, or Director, officer or employee of the Company or any Company
Subsidiary shall be liable, responsible or accountable in damages or
otherwise for any determination made or other action taken or any failure
to act by such person so long as such person is not determined to be guilty
by a final adjudication of willful misconduct with respect to such
determination, action or failure to act.

         Section 9.06. Indemnification. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, each of the members of the Board and the Committee and each of the
Directors, officers and employees of the Company and any Company Subsidiary
shall be held harmless and be indemnified by the Company for any liability,
loss (including amounts paid in settlement), damages or expenses (including
reasonable attorneys' fees) suffered by virtue of any determinations, acts
or failures to act, or alleged acts or failures to act, in connection with
the administration of this Plan so long as such person is not determined by
a final adjudication to be guilty of willful misconduct with respect to
such determination, action or failure to act.


                                 ARTICLE X

                          MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

         Section 10.01. Not Transferable. Options, Performance Awards and
Restricted Stock under this Plan may not be sold, pledged, assigned or
transferred in any manner other than by will or the laws of descent and
distribution; provided, however, that an Optionee or Grantee may designate
a Beneficiary to exercise his Option or other rights under this Plan after
his death. No Option, Performance Award or Restricted Stock or interest or
right therein shall be liable for the debts, contracts or engagements of
the Optionee, Grantee or Restricted Stockholder or his successors in
interest or shall be subject to disposition by transfer, alienation,
anticipation, pledge, encumbrance, assignment or any other means whether
such disposition be voluntary or involuntary or by operation of law by
judgment, levy, attachment, garnishment or any other legal or equitable
proceedings (including bankruptcy). and any attempted disposition thereof
shall be null and void and of no effect; provided, however, that nothing in
this Section 10.01 shall prevent transfers by will or by the applicable
laws of descent and distribution. An Option shall be exercised during the
Optionee's lifetime only by the Optionee or his guardian or legal
representative. A Performance Award under this Plan shall be exercised
during the Grantee's lifetime only by the Grantee or his guardian or legal
representative.

         Section 10.02. Amendment, Suspension or Termination of this Plan.
Subject to the conditions contained in Section 3.05(d) herein, this Plan
may be wholly or partially amended or otherwise modified, suspended or
terminated at any time or from time to time by the Board. However, without
approval of the Company's stockholders given within twelve months before or
after the action by the Board or the Committee, no action of the Committee
or Board may, except as provided in Section 10.03, increase the limits
imposed in Section 2.01 on the maximum number of shares which may be issued
under this Plan, and no action of the Committee or Board may be taken that
would otherwise require stockholder approval as a matter of applicable law,
regulation or rule. No amendment, suspension or termination of this Plan
shall, without the consent of the holder of an Option, Performance Award or
Restricted Stock, alter or impair any rights or obligations under any
Option, Performance Award or Restricted Stock theretofore granted or
awarded. No Option, Performance Award or Restricted Stock may be granted or
awarded during any period of suspension nor after termination of this Plan,
and in no event may any Incentive Stock Option be granted under this Plan
after the first to occur of the following events:

                  (a) The expiration of ten years from the date the Plan is
         adopted by the Board; or

                  (b) The expiration of ten years from the date the Plan is
         approved by the Company's stockholders under Section 10.05.

         Section 10.03. Changes in Common Stock or Assets of the Company.
In the event that the outstanding shares of Common Stock are hereafter
changed into or exchanged for cash or a different number or kind of shares
or other securities of the Company, or of another corporation, by reason of
reorganization, merger, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification,
stock splitup, stock dividend or combination of shares, appropriate
adjustments shall be made by the Committee in the number and kind of shares
for the purchase of which Options or with respect to which the exercise of
Performance Awards may be granted, including adjustments of the limitation
in Section 2.01 on the maximum number and kind of shares which may be
issued.

         In the event of such a change or exchange, other than for shares
or securities of another corporation or by reason of reorganization, the
Committee shall also make an appropriate and equitable adjustment in the
number and kind of shares as to which all outstanding Options or
Performance Awards, or portions thereof then unexercised, shall be
exercisable. Such adjustment shall be made with the intent that after the
change or exchange of shares, each Optionee's and each Grantee's
proportionate interest shall be maintained as before the occurrence of such
event. Such adjustment in an outstanding Option or Performance Award may
include a necessary or appropriate corresponding adjustment in the Option
or Performance Award exercise price, but shall be made without change in
the total price applicable to the Option or Performance Award, or the
unexercised portion thereof (except for any change in the aggregate price
resulting from rounding off of share quantities or prices).

         Where an adjustment of the type described above is made to an
Incentive Stock Option under this Section, the adjustment will be made in a
manner which will not be considered a 'modification" under the provisions
of subsection 424(h)(3) of the Code.

         In the event of a "spin-off" or other substantial distribution of
assets of the Company which has a material diminutive effect upon the Fair
Market Value of the Common Stock, the Committee may in its discretion make
an appropriate and equitable adjustment to the Option or Performance Award
exercise price to reflect such diminution.

         Section 10.04. Merger of the Company. In the event of the merger
or consolidation of the Company with or into another corporation, the
exchange of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company for the
securities of another corporation, the acquisition by another corporation
or person of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or the
acquisition of the Company's outstanding voting stock in an amount
sufficient for such person to control the Company, or the liquidation or
dissolution of the Company, the Compensation Committee shall have the
complete authority and discretion, but not the obligation, to accelerate
the vesting of outstanding Options or Performance Awards and the
termination of restrictions on Restricted Stock.

         Section 10.05. Approval of Plan by Stockholders. This Plan will be
submitted for the approval of the Company's stockholders within twelve
months after the date of the Board's initial adoption of this Plan. Options
or Performance Awards may be granted and Restricted Stock may be awarded
prior to such stockholder approval, provided that such Options or
Performance Awards shall not be exercisable and such Restricted Stock shall
not vest prior to the time when this Plan is approved by the stockholders,
and provided further that if such approval has not been obtained at the end
of said twelve-month period, all Options and Performance Awards previously
granted and all Restricted Stock previously awarded under this Plan shall
thereupon be cancelled and become null and void. The Company shall take
such actions with respect to the Plan as may be necessary to satisfy the
requirements of Rule 16b-3.

         Section 10.06. Tax Withholding. The Company shall be entitled to
require payment or deduction from other compensation payable to each
Optionee, Grantee or Restricted Stockholder of any sums required by
federal, state or local tax law to be withheld with respect to any Option,
Performance Award or Restricted Stock. The Committee may in its discretion
allow such Optionee, Grantee or Restricted Stockholder to elect to have the
Company withhold shares of Common Stock (or allow the return of shares of
Common Stock) having a Fair Market Value equal to the sums required to be
withheld. If the Optionee, Grantee or Restricted Stockholder elects to
advance such sums directly, written notice of that election shall be
delivered on or prior to such exercise and, whether pursuant to such
election or pursuant to a requirement imposed by the Company payment in
cash or by check of such sums for taxes shall be delivered within two days
after the date of exercise. If, as allowed by the Committee, the Optionee,
Grantee or Restricted Stockholder elects to have the Company withhold
Shares of Common Stock (or allow the return of shares of Common Stock)
having a Fair Market Value equal to the sums required to be withheld, the
value of the shares of Common Stock to be withheld (or returned as the case
may be) will be equal to the Fair Market Value of such shares as of the
date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined (the "Tax
Date"). Elections by such persons to have shares of Common Stock withheld
for this purpose will be subject to the following restrictions: (a) the
election must be made on or prior to the Tax Date, (b) the election must be
irrevocable, (c) the election shall be subject to the disapproval of the
Committee, and (d) if the person is an officer of the Company within the
meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the election shall be subject to
such additional restrictions as the Committee may impose in an effort to
secure the benefits of any regulations thereunder. The Committee shall not
be obligated to issue shares and/or distribute cash to any person upon
exercise of any right until such payment has been received or shares have
been so withheld, unless withholding (or offset against a cash payment) as
of or prior to the date of such exercise is sufficient to cover all such
sums due or which may be due with respect to such exercise.

         Section 10.07. Loans. The Committee may, in its discretion, extend
one or more loans to key Employees in connection with the exercise or
receipt of outstanding Options or Performance Awards granted under this
Plan, or the issuance of Restricted Stock awarded under this Plan. The
terms and conditions of any such loan shall be set by the Committee.

         Section 10.08.   Limitations Applicable to Section 16 Persons.

                  (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan,
         this Plan, and any Option or Performance Award granted, or
         Restricted Stock awarded, to a key Employee who is then subject to
         Section 16 of the Exchange Act, shall be subject to any additional
         limitations set forth in any applicable exemptive rule under
         Section 16 of the Exchange Act (including any amendment to Rule
         16b-3 of the Exchange Act) that are requirements for the
         application of such exemptive rule. Any such additional limitation
         shall be set forth in an annex to this Plan, such annex to be
         incorporated herein by this reference and made part of this Plan.

                  (b) With respect to persons subject to Section 16 of the
         Exchange Act, transactions under this Plan are intended to comply
         with all applicable conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successors
         under the Exchange Act. To the extent any provision of the Plan or
         action by the Committee fails to so comply, it shall be deemed
         null and void, to the extent permitted by law and deemed advisable
         by the Committee. Moreover, in the event the Plan does not include
         a provision required by Rule l6b-3 to be stated therein, such
         provision (other than one relating to eligibility requirements, or
         the price and amount of awards) shall be deemed automatically to
         be incorporated by reference into the Plan insofar as participants
         subject to Section 16 are concerned.

         Section 10.09. Plan Designation and Status. Notwithstanding the
designation of this document as a Plan for convenience of reference and to
standardize certain provisions applicable to all types of Options,
Performance Awards and Restricted Stock issuances authorized, each of the
Option, Performance Award and Restricted Stock shall be deemed to be a
separate "plan" for purposes of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and any
applicable state securities laws.

         Section 10.10. Release of Restrictions. Any or all of the
foregoing limitations in Sections 10.08 and 10.09 on Options or Performance
Awards granted to key Employees and Restricted Stock awarded to key
Employees shall be suspended if, to the extent, as to such persons, and for
so long as the Securities and Exchange Commission by regulation or official
staff interpretation or a no-action letter issued to the Company determines
that such limitation is not necessary to secure the benefits otherwise
available with respect to a "plan" or particular award, as the case may be,
under any applicable exemptive rule under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.

         Section 10.11. Effect of Plan Upon Options and Compensation Plans.
The adoption of this Plan shall not affect any other compensation or
incentive plans in effect for the Company or any Company Subsidiary.
Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to limit the right of the Company
(a) to establish any other forms of incentives or compensation for
employees of the Company or any Company Subsidiary or (b) to grant or
assume options or other rights otherwise than under this Plan in connection
with any proper corporate or partnership purpose including but not by way
of limitation, the grant or assumption of options in connection with the
acquisition by purchase, lease, merger, consolidation or otherwise, of the
business, stock or assets of any corporation, partnership, firm or
association or the performance of services for the benefit of the Company.

         Section 10.12. Effect of Change of Subsidiary Status. For purposes
of this Plan and any Options or Performance Awards granted, or Restricted
Stock awarded hereunder, if an entity ceases to be a Company Subsidiary the
employment of all Optionees, Grantees or Restricted Stockholders who are
employed by such entity shall be deemed to have terminated, except any such
Optionees, Grantees or Restricted Stockholders who continue to be employees
of another entity within the Company.

         Section 10.13. Compliance with Laws. This Plan, the granting and
vesting of Options, Performance Awards or Restricted Stock under this Plan
and the issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock and the payment of
money under this Plan or under Options or Performance Awards granted or
Restricted Stock awarded hereunder are subject to compliance with all
applicable federal and state laws, rules and regulations (including but not
limited to state and federal securities law and federal margin
requirements) and to such approvals by any listing, regulatory or
governmental authority as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Company,
be necessary or advisable in connection therewith. Any securities delivered
under this Plan shall be subject to such restrictions, and the person
acquiring such securities shall, if requested by the Company, provide such
assurances and representations to the Company as the Company may deem
necessary or desirable to assure compliance with all applicable legal
requirements. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Plan, Options,
Performance Awards and Restricted Stock granted or awarded hereunder shall
be deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such laws, rules
and regulations.

         Section 10.14. Titles. Titles are provided herein for convenience
only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of
this Plan.

         Section 10.15. Governing Law. This Plan and any agreements
hereunder shall be administered, interpreted and enforced under the
internal laws of the State of Delaware without regard to conflicts of laws
thereof.

         Section 10.16. Severability. If any portion of this Plan is
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or
unenforceable after all appeals have either been exhausted or the time for
any appeals to be taken has expired, the remainder of the terms,
provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Plan shall remain in full
force and effect and in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>15
<FILENAME>0015.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21.1 - LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>



                                  KFX INC.

                            List of Subsidiaries






Subsidiary                                       State of Incorporation
- ----------                                       ----------------------

KFx Technology, Inc.                             Wyoming
KFx Wyoming, Inc.                                Wyoming
K-Fuel, L.L.C.                                   Delaware
Pegasus Technologies, Inc.                       South Dakota



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>16
<FILENAME>0016.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23.1 - CONSENT
<TEXT>


                     CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


     We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-4298), (No. 333-28129), (No.
333-82455) and (No. 333-88211) and in the Registration Statements on Form
S-8 (No. 333-9873) and (No. 333-82357) of KFx Inc. of our report dated
April 13, 2001 relating to the consolidated financial statements, which
appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders in this Form 10-K.




April 17, 2001




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
