-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CcHCC0BvGh6xCnniKyvX2BmU2/+eXbXmpene7C56Z6latPpp6wwOKSCNv0jxNnkl
 BYHTLyji0Vp04vbrmCiueg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950147-02-001148.txt : 20020904
<SEC-HEADER>0000950147-02-001148.hdr.sgml : 20020904
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20020904154818
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950147-02-001148
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		3
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20020630
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020904

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LIGHTPATH TECHNOLOGIES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000889971
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				860708398
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-27548
		FILM NUMBER:		02756543

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		3819 OSUNA NE
		CITY:			ALBUQUERQUE
		STATE:			NM
		ZIP:			87109
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5053421100
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>e-8944.txt
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT FOR THE FISCAL YR ENDED 06/30/2002
<TEXT>
================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

       [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

                     FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2002

                                       OR

     [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

             For the transition period from __________ to __________

                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 000-27548

                          LIGHTPATH TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                DELAWARE                                          86-0708398
    (State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)                           Identification No)

                            http://www.lightpath.com

              3819 OSUNA, NE                                        87109
         ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO                                  (Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)

               Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
                                 (505) 342-1100

        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: NONE

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                      CLASS A COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE

     Indicate  by check mark  whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  and Exchange Act
of 1934  during the  preceding  12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X] NO [ ]

     Check if there is no disclosure  of  delinquent  filers in response to Item
405 of  Regulation  S-B  contained  in  this  form,  and no  disclosure  will be
contained,  to the  best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or
information  statements  incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

     The  registrant's  operating  revenue  for its  most  recent  fiscal  year.
$12,506,582

     The  aggregate  market  value  of the  registrant's  voting  stock  held by
non-affiliates (based on the closing sale price of the registrant's Common Stock
on the Nasdaq National Market,  and for the purpose of this computation only, on
the  assumption  that  all  of  the  registrant's  directors  and  officers  are
affiliates) was approximately $11,938,915 on August 1, 2002.

     The number of shares  outstanding of each of the issuer's classes of common
stock, as of the latest practical date:

Common Stock, Class A, $.01 par value                   20,677,071 shares
CLASS                                             OUTSTANDING AT AUGUST 23, 2002

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the  Registrant's  Proxy  Statement  for the 2002 Annual  Meeting of
Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.

================================================================================
<PAGE>
                          LIGHTPATH TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K

                                      INDEX

         ITEM                                                               PAGE
         ----                                                               ----
PART I
         Description of Business                                               2
         Description of Property                                              32
         Legal Proceedings                                                    32
         Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                  33

PART II
         Market for Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters             34
         Selected Financial Data                                              36
         Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
           and Results of Operations                                          38
         Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk            49
         Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                          49
         Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
           and Financial Disclosure                                           49

PART III
         Directors and Executive Officers,
           Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act                  50
         Executive Compensation                                               53
         Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management       53
         Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                       53
         Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K     54

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                   F-1

SIGNATURES                                                                    56

CERTIFICATION                                                                 57

                                       1
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


                                     PART I

ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.

GENERAL

     LightPath is a  manufacturer  of families of  high-performance  fiber-optic
collimator  and isolator  products,  GRADIUM(R)  glass lenses and other  optical
materials used to produce products that manipulate light. We operate through two
operating segments;  optoelectronics and fiber  telecommunications  ("telecom"),
and traditional  optics (e.g. lenses used in lasers,  data storage,  bar coding,
medical equipment, consumer optics, etc.). We manufacture and sell the following
types of telecom  products:  (i)  collimators,  (ii)  isolators and (iii) molded
aspheric lenses. Collimators are assemblies that are used to straighten and make
parallel diverging light as it exits a fiber. An isolator is used to prevent the
back  reflection of optical  signals that can degrade  transmitter and amplifier
performance. Molded aspheres are used in telecom applications to couple laser to
fiber,  fiber  to  fiber  and  fiber  to  other  optical  devices.  Collimators,
isolators,  molded  aspheres and other optical  components  are used  throughout
fiber optic systems.  Such systems are used by the  telecommunications  industry
with a goal of  increased  bandwidth,  through  the  development  of all optical
networks, by combining multiple light streams from individual transmissions onto
a single optical fiber.  We are also planning to develop other products  related
to the  optoelectronics  and  telecommunications  industry  through licenses and
relationships with other manufacturers. SEE "CURRENT FOCUS ON PRODUCTS" BELOW.

     LightPath was incorporated under Delaware law in June 1992 as the successor
to LightPath Technologies Limited Partnership,  a New Mexico limited partnership
(the  "Partnership"),  formed in 1989,  and its  predecessor,  Integrated  Solar
Technologies  Corporation,  a New Mexico  corporation  ("ISOTEC"),  organized in
1985.

     From our  inception  in 1985  until  June  1996,  we were  classified  as a
development stage enterprise that engaged in basic research and development. Our
initial  objective in 1985 was to improve solar energy technology by creating an
optical material that could  efficiently bend light from varying angles in order
to track the path of the sun across the sky.  During this stage, we believe that
most of our product sales were to persons evaluating the commercial  application
of GRADIUM  glass (SEE - PRODUCTS:  GRADIUM) or using the  products for research
and  development.  In 1987,  we  realized  that our early  discoveries  had much
broader  application,  and we expanded our focus to imaging optics applications.
During  fiscal  year  1997,  our  operational  focus  began to shift to  product
development and sales. We completed  numerous  prototypes for production  orders
and received  catalog  sales of standard lens  profiles.  We also began to offer
standard,  computer-based  profiles  of  GRADIUM  glass that  engineers  use for
product design.

     In fiscal year 1998,  we began to explore the  development  of products for
emerging markets such as optoelectronics,  photonics and solar due to the number
of  potential  customer  inquiries  into the  ability of GRADIUM  glass to solve
optoelectronic problems,  specifically in the areas of fiber telecommunications.
In 1998, the resolution of packaging and alignment  issues,  along with advances
made by LightChip Inc.  ("LightChip")  with WDM  equipment,  led us to develop a
strategy to enter the telecom optical components market.  This strategy is built
around automated  production of telecom  components using laser fusion and fiber
attachment  techniques we developed.  We also maintained our emphasis on optical
materials  where we gained  expertise  during the  development of GRADIUM glass.
During fiscal 1998,  sales of lenses to the traditional  optics market continued
with  increases  in sales of lenses  used in the YAG laser  market,  catalog and
distributor sales and lenses used in the wafer inspection  markets.  During this
time, we  reorganized  internally  and realigned our marketing  efforts with the
purpose  of  expanding  our  focus to  include  the  optoelectronics  and  fiber
telecommunications  markets in addition to the  traditional  optics market.  See
"Sales and Marketing - Optoelectronics and Fiber Telecommunications."

     In designing our  optoelectronic  devices,  we focused on automation of the
manufacturing  process.  Although many other manufacturers in this industry rely
on offshore  production  to control  costs,  we believe that  automation  of the

                                       2
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


manufacturing  process can yield  significant  costs savings over the long term.
Our patented laser fusion and fiber attachment  techniques are highly automated,
and we believe these  techniques  provided  improved  quality and flexibility to
increase  manufacturing capacity in response to growth in demand. Our automation
concept was expanded upon with our fiscal 2000 acquisition of Horizon Photonics,
Inc.  ("Horizon") where we employ the use of robotic systems in manufacturing of
isolators.

     In April 2000, we acquired  Horizon,  a California  corporation  originally
founded  in July  1997.  Horizon  utilizes  automated  production  platforms  to
manufacture  passive  optical  components  for the  telecommunications  and data
communications markets. We acquired all of the outstanding shares of Horizon for
approximately  1.4 million shares of Class A Common Stock and $1 million in cash
(an  aggregate  purchase  price of  approximately  $40.2  million,  based on the
trading price of our common stock).  Horizon  manufactures  isolator products at
their Walnut, California facility.

     In  September  2000,  we acquired  Geltech,  Inc.  ("Geltech"),  a Delaware
corporation  originally  founded  in May  1985.  Geltech  is a  manufacturer  of
precision molded aspheric optics used in the active telecom components market to
provide a highly efficient means to couple laser diodes to fibers or waveguides.
Geltech also produces lens arrays for optical  switches and other  applications.
We acquired all of the outstanding  shares of Geltech for an aggregate  purchase
price of  approximately  $28.5  million,  comprised of 822,737 shares of Class A
common stock  (valued at $27.5  million based on the trading price of our common
stock) and approximately $1 million in acquisition costs.  Geltech  manufactures
products at its facilities in Orlando,  FL. During fiscal 2002, Geltech expanded
its  manufacturing  facility,   which  will  include  integrating  some  of  the
automation techniques utilized at our other facilities.

     Our first significant dealings in the  telecommunications  segment began in
June 1997, when we announced we had joined with Invention Machine Corporation to
form a joint venture company, LightChip, to develop,  manufacture and market the
next generation of wavelength division  multiplexing  ("WDM") systems for use by
telecommunication  carriers,  CATV companies,  local area networks and wide area
networks system  integrators.  WDM systems are needed by the  telecommunications
industry  to  increase  bandwidth  by  combining  multiple  light  streams  from
individual  transmissions  onto a single optical fiber.  We formed  LightChip in
order to serve the growing metro WDM market.  Since 1998, LightChip has received
approximately  $91 million  from the issuance of common stock and four series of
convertible  preferred stock. The initial  investors  included AT&T Ventures and
LightPath.  Subsequent investors also include Morgenthaler Ventures, J.P. Morgan
Capital  and  Berkeley  International.   Our  current  percentage  ownership  of
LightChip is approximately  13% of total preferred and common shares.  LightChip
successfully  demonstrated  a WDM model and had  prototypes of several  products
available in fiscal 2000.  LightChip's  first product sales occurred in calendar
2001.   We  licensed  the  use  of  GRADIUM  glass  to  LightChip  for  specific
applications. We anticipate no short-term revenue from LightChip. In May 2002 we
wrote down our investment in LightChip by $6.3 million to reflect  pricing of an
equity  round of financing at a price per share that was lower than the carrying
value of LightPath's investment in LightChip. The telecommunications  market has
been severely  depressed and  valuations  of start up companies  have  decreased
dramatically.  If  further  funding  is at a rate  lower  than  the  cost of our
previous  investment  in  LightChip  we will  be  required  to  write  down  our
investment  to the current  market  value.  LightChip's  business is at an early
stage,  and the volatile  nature of the  telecommunications  industry  makes our
investment in LightChip subject to significant risks and uncertainties.

OPERATING SEGMENTS AND PRODUCTS

     We  manufacture  and sell the  following  types of  telecom  products:  (i)
collimators,  (ii) isolators and (iii) molded  aspheric lenses and (iv) modules.
We also manufacture  traditional  optics products  including:  (i) GRADIUM glass
products,  lenses,  prisms and (ii) molded aspheric lenses.  GRADIUM glass is an
optical quality glass material with varying  refractive  indices used for optics
such  as  lenses  for YAG  lasers.  Molded  aspheres  are  used  in  non-telecom
applications such as optical data storage,  high precision printing,  bar coding
and by manufacturers of medical equipment.

                                       3
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


                                   COLLIMATORS

     We offer two product levels of collimators:

          -    collimating lenses; and
          -    standard collimators.

     COLLIMATING LENSES

     We offer two types of lenses for use in telecommunication  applications: TL
and GPX-series. Our TL-series lenses are 1.8 mm diameter collimating, rod lenses
and are available in 0.18, 0.23 and 0.25  pitch-equivalent  lenses. These lenses
have an  optional  angles  facet  to  control  back  reflection  and for ease of
assembly.  Our TL-series  lenses  provide a high degree of  collimation,  design
customization,  and have  tight  piece-to-piece  control.  Customized  TL-series
lenses with larger  diameters can provide beam diameters  greater than 2 mm. Our
GPX series  lenses are  available in a wide variety of sizes and focal  lengths.
These lenses provide high quality  aberration control and are easily customized.
They are sold  separately for assembly into  customers'  components and are also
incorporated into our large beam collimator.  These GRADIUM  collimating  lenses
can replace  homogeneous lenses with, in many cases,  immediate  improvements in
performance, repeatability and cost.

     STANDARD COLLIMATOR

     We demonstrated  our first passive  optoelectronic  product,  a single mode
fiber  collimator  assembly ("SMF  Assembly") in February 1998. Our SMF Assembly
and subsequently  improved versions of the standard  collimator which offer high
quality  performance in the areas of back  reflection and insertion  loss. It is
also more compact and we believe it can be manufactured at a significantly lower
cost than the competitive products currently available in commercial quantities.
The  collimator  is a key  element in all fiber  optic  systems,  including  WDM
equipment. Collimators straighten and make parallel, diverging light as it exits
a fiber.  Our standard  collimator  provides  high quality  performance  in back
reflection and insertion loss and can withstand in excess of 10 watts of optical
power.  This  entry  level  product  currently  used  by the  telecommunications
industry  prevents  light from  diverging as it exits a fiber,  and shepherds it
into the next piece of equipment or fiber.

                                    ISOLATORS

     We  have  developed  a  family  of  products  that  utilize  a  proprietary
micro-fixture design and robotic platform process. This automated process allows
for micro-optics to be mounted in small transferable fixtures that are processed
in arrays  and  converted  into a variety of optical  components  and  component
subsystems.  Our platform is capable of producing  products  such as  isolators,
gain flatteners, attenuators, filter assemblies, and other volume-oriented optic
assemblies for the WDM market.  To date, we are manufacturing a qualified family
of free-space,  laminate and contract-specific isolators. In 2001, we released a
new line of isolator  assemblies for application in the metro and access telecom
markets.  This  line is based on a  flexible  manufacturing  platform  which can
address a wide range of  customer  specifications  while  supporting  lower cost
applications.

     The  optical  isolator is used to prevent  the back  reflection  of optical
signals  that  can  degrade  transmitter  and  amplifier  performance.  We  have
developed  and  qualified  an  automated   platform   process  that  avoids  the
traditional pitfalls of producing optical isolators.  Applicable to a variety of
passive optical  components,  our automated platform process has proven to be an
efficient and low cost method for manufacturing isolators without machining tiny
metal  fixtures and without  utilizing a significant  level of manual labor.  We
believe our isolator has a competitive  advantage  for a certain  segment of OEM
business,  since our proprietary platform allows us to produce unique designs at
competitive prices in a flexible, automated process.

                                       4
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


          MOLDED ASPHERES, MOLDED LENS ARRAYS AND DIFFRACTION GRATINGS

     The telecom  industry  has a need for molded  aspheres  for  laser-to-fiber
coupling, tunable lasers, DFB lasers and device coupling. Corning Inc. developed
the technology we employ for molding a proprietary low melting temperature glass
into an asphere lens. With our September 2000 acquisition of Geltech,  LightPath
obtained the process, key personnel and equipment,  and also secured a perpetual
license to all Corning's  intellectual  property associated with the development
of precision molded optics.  We have continued to refine the process and develop
the markets for aspheric lenses.

     Our focus is on providing custom optical  solutions to meet unique customer
needs in the rapidly changing telecommunications market as well as extending our
customer base in markets outside of telecom. We provide aspheric lenses of sizes
up to 15mm, and we are a developer of sub-millimeter optics.

     We have also  developed a line of molded lens arrays.  We have  developed a
process to mold lens arrays capable of producing  optical  components  with very
small lens  diameters  and very high lens density (for example,  40,000  optical
elements in a two-inch diameter array).

     Although we have a unique and  proprietary  line of  all-glass  diffraction
gratings  (StableSil(R))  for  telecom  applications,   there  currently  is  no
significant   activity  in  the  market  for  this  product  line  and  we  have
discontinued further development efforts in this area.

                                     MODULES

     We have  introduced  a number of modules  which will combine two or more of
our  current  components,  such as the  isolator  and  molded  aspheres,  into a
subassembly.  During  fiscal 2002 we began to expand  modules  offerings  and to
automate the  manufacturing  of modules to take  advantage of low cost assembly.
Current passive optical modules include the OASIS(TM) and Vectra(TM)  collimator
arrays. The expansion of these modules will continue into fiscal 2003.

                                    GRADIUM

     GRADIUM glass is an optical quality glass material with varying  refractive
indices, capable of reducing optical aberrations inherent in conventional lenses
and performing with a single lens tasks traditionally performed by multi-element
conventional  lens  systems.  We  believe  that  GRADIUM  glass  lenses  provide
advantages  over  conventional  lenses for  certain  applications.  By  reducing
optical  aberrations and the number of lenses in an optical  system,  we believe
that GRADIUM glass can provide more  efficient  light  transmission  and greater
brightness,  lower production  costs, and a simpler,  smaller product.  While we
believe that other  researchers  have sought to automate  production  of passive
optical  components  and to  produce  optical  quality  lens  material  with the
properties of GRADIUM  glass,  we are not aware of any other person or firm that
has developed a repeatable  manufacturing process comparable to our abilities or
with the ability to produce such material on a prescribable basis.

PRODUCTS IN DEVELOPMENT

     The  current  focus of our  development  efforts  has been to  develop  new
products  based  on  our  optical  and  automation  platforms  in the  areas  of
isolators,  optical subassemblies,  micro-collimators and lens arrays for use in
the telecommunications field, and other markets which use optical components.

     Our original  process patent is for producing an optical quality  material,
GRADIUM  glass,  with an "axial"  gradient  refractive  index  (i.e.,  the index
gradient runs parallel to the optical lens axis,  rather than  perpendicular  to
the lens axis or "radial").  The GRADIUM glass  designated  curve is achieved by
the  controlled  combination  of  multiple  glass  optical  densities.  We  have
developed  a set of  proprietary  software  design  tools so that the light upon
leaving the glass can be precisely modeled. GRADIUM glass lenses can be produced
across a large diameter range (currently 1mm-100mm). Growth in our manufacturing
capabilities  has led to improved  yield and  automation,  advancing our goal of
producing competitively priced products.

                                       5
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


     We were  issued a patent  in  fiscal  year  2000 for the  development  of a
process  utilizing  high-powered  lasers for fusion,  splicing and  polishing of
optical  material  to include  optical  fiber.  This  patent is the basis of our
collimator production technology.

     We were issued our first of three patents  relating to our robotic assembly
platform  used for the  manufacturing  of isolators in fiscal year 2001 and have
several other patents in process.

     We have  approximately  50 US and foreign patents in the areas of precision
molded  optics  and  Sol-Gel  technologies.  We also hold the  right to  certain
materials we believe are key to the development of high precision molded optics.

     In addition,  we utilize other optical  materials and  specialized  optical
packaging  concepts to manipulate light and perform research and development for
optical  solutions  in  the  fiber  telecommunications  and  traditional  optics
markets.

     MODULES

     During  fiscal 2001,  we  introduced a number of modules which will combine
two or more of our current components, such as the isolator and molded aspheres,
into a subassembly.  During fiscal 2002 we began to expand modules offerings and
to automate the manufacturing of modules to take advantage of low cost assembly.
Current passive optical modules include the OASIS(TM) and Vectra(TM)  collimator
arrays.  The expansion of these  modules will continue into fiscal 2003.  Demand
for  modules  is  driven  by  specific  customer  needs.   Utilizing  automation
techniques,  we are able to provide active alignment of multiple  components and
deliver a  subsystem  optimized  for the  customers  unique  needs with very low
insertion loss.

     SWITCHES AND COLLIMATOR ARRAYS

     During fiscal 2002,  we had planned on shipment of the 1XN  opto-mechanical
switch  based  upon a patent  licensed  from  Herzel  Laor.  Due to the  current
economic environment, we elected to suspend expenditures required to launch this
product in fiscal 2002. We will  concentrate  instead on  development of further
enhancements to existing product lines.

     Using the automated  alignment  techniques learned in production of the 1XN
opto-mechanical  switch, we proceeded with the development of collimator arrays.
We  successfully  shipped  prototypes  of this product in the fourth  quarter of
fiscal 2002 and intend to expand in this area in fiscal 2003.

     SOL-GEL TECHNOLOGY

     We have developed a replication  process to manufacture  glass  diffractive
optical components using Sol-Gel technology. This process allows the fabrication
by replication of these complex optics at a fraction of the cost of conventional
technologies such as photolithography and reactive-ion  etching. In addition, we
have  produced  other  Sol-Gel  based  components   including  the  high  volume
manufacture of silica  substrates for optically active windows used in toxic gas
detection and the development and production of unique  solid-state  calibration
filters.  We have  practiced  Sol-Gel  technology  for  several  years  and have
successfully   addressed  many  different   markets  over  the  years.  We  have
significant  knowledge in this field with protection through extensive know-how,
trade secrets, and 7 issued patents.

     In 2000,  we  introduced  a line of  all-glass  gratings in response to the
anticipated demand from the  telecommunications  industry for the fabrication of
DWDM and other devices  requiring high  performance and sturdy  gratings.  These
all-glass gratings present significant advantages over available gratings due to
outstanding environmental resistance, high performance and low cost.

                                       6
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


     Although we  continued to pursue the  development  of  additional  products
based on Sol-Gel  technology and had included in our new product plans inorganic
waveguides,  active  waveguides  and  arrayed  waveguide  gratings to be used in
telecommunications  applications,  we have delayed these development efforts due
to the  current  economic  environment.  We have  elected to delay  expenditures
required to launch these products until we see a substantial  increase in demand
from our customers and the market.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

     Our management and marketing focus historically has been organized with the
intent  of  serving  two  separate  markets:   (1)   optoelectronics  and  fiber
telecommunications  ("telecom"), and (2) traditional optics (e.g. lenses used in
lasers, data storage, bar coding, medical equipment,  consumer optics, etc.). We
believe  that GRADIUM  glass and other  optical  materials  can  potentially  be
marketed for use in many optics and optoelectronics products.

     During  the  last 18  months,  the  telecom  equipment  market  has  slowed
dramatically, including the optical components segment of the market. As service
providers  rapidly cut their capital spending  budgets,  inventories of hardware
systems,  subsystems,  and  components  grew  quickly  due to a lag  in  vendors
adjusting their build rates to the downturn in demand.  Although inventories are
believed to be dropping,  there is still a sizeable inventory of components that
must be consumed before supply and demand come back in balance.  We believe this
reduction  in demand for telecom  components  will  continue  into fiscal  2003,
therefore, we are adjusting our business plans.

     In June  2002 we  announced  plans  for  fiscal  2003  where we  intend  to
consolidate  lens product lines in Florida and reorganize  internally into three
groups;  the Optical  Lens Group;  the Laser  Component  Group;  and the Optical
Integration  Group.  The  Optical  Lens Group will  manage  the  collimator  and
aspheric lens products,  which  continues as the core  capability for LightPath.
These product lines will be consolidated in the Orlando,  Florida  facility.  We
believe the aspheric lens product line, in particular,  has broad  applicability
to  market   segments  beyond  telecom.   We  are   aggressively   pursuing  new
opportunities  in the application  areas of medical devices,  barcode  scanners,
optical data storage, machine vision, sensors, and environmental monitoring.

     In response to our customers' requirements for a second site capability and
optical  packaging  solutions,  we  intend  to  increase  our  emphasis  on  the
integrated platform segment of our business within the Laser Component Group. We
have had great success with our isolator  product line, and as our customers ask
for more demanding optical performance we see a great opportunity to provide the
entire solution from laser to fiber. The Laser Component Group will be investing
a modest amount in capital expenditures and research and development, in support
of  optical  generation  and  detection  applications,   such  as  transmitters,
transceivers  and pumps. The Optical  Integration  Group will allow LightPath to
augment  current  passive  optical  packages  such as OASIS(TM)  and  Vectra(TM)
collimator arrays with new innovative passive optical modules, such as multiport
and hybrid devices,  to provide effective optical  management  solutions for our
customers.

OPTOELECTRONICS AND FIBER TELECOMMUNICATIONS (TELECOM PRODUCTS)

     Optoelectronics  technologies  consist  of  an  overlap  of  photonics  and
electronics  and are key enablers of  "Information  Age"  technologies,  such as
fiber optic  communications,  optical  data  storage,  laser  printers,  digital
imaging,  and sensors  for  machine  vision and  environmental  monitoring.  The
telecom/datacom networks have experienced explosive growth. The dramatic rise of
the  Internet,  office  automation,  videoconferencing,   local  and  wide  area
networking,  and remote access telecommunications has fueled the demand for more
and  more  network  capacity  in both  long-haul  telecommunications  and  cable
television networks.

     Given the inherently faster speed of light signals in fiber-optic  networks
and their immunity from  electromagnetic  interference,  fiber-optic systems are
replacing existing copper wire networks for long-haul (more than 600 kilometers)
telecommunications  networks.  Cable  television  networks are also  shifting to

                                       7
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


fiber-optic solutions for the distribution of signals from the broadcast station
to the local cable  distribution  hubs. Today,  fiber-optic cable is the primary
medium for long-haul  telecommunications  and cable  television  networks and is
making  inroads to replace  copper in the shorter  distance  "metro  loops" that
serve larger metropolitan and other public networks with transmission  distances
of less than 100 kilometers.

     COLLIMATORS

     Prior to 1998, we targeted various optoelectronic industry market niches as
potential  purchasers of our GRADIUM glass  products.  During 1998, we began the
development of products for the emerging optoelectronics  markets,  specifically
in the areas of fiber  telecommunications.  We  demonstrated  our first  passive
optoelectronic  product, the SMF Assembly, in 1998. This product is manufactured
with automated  production  techniques we developed  which utilizes laser fusion
and fiber  attachment.  During 1999 and 2000,  we expanded  this  product  line,
demonstrating to the  telecommunication  optical components industry that we can
provide low cost products and solutions to meet their telecom-related collimator
needs.

     ISOLATORS AND WDM SYSTEMS

     The demand for increased  bandwidth in fiber-optic  networks has led to the
widespread use of a once-theoretical method for transmitting multiple signals at
slightly different  wavelengths  through a single fiber to achieve efficient use
of fiber capacity. This technique, known as wavelength division multiplexing, or
WDM, requires separate source lasers transmitting slightly different wavelengths
for each signal or "channel" and more complex  modulators and optical amplifiers
to control  and  amplify  the signal in the  network.  WDM  systems,  originally
developed for eight separate  channels in 1996, are currently  being designed to
carry  as  many  as  128   separate   channels   with  0.4  of  a  nanometer  in
differentiation between wavelengths.  In theory, a single pair of optical fibers
can carry more than 10 terabits  of  information  per  second,  which is roughly
equivalent to 156 million voice  channels or 500,000  simultaneous  two-way HDTV
channels. Through our investment in LightChip, we have positioned ourselves with
products that are designed for use within WDM systems.

     With our  acquisition  of Horizon,  we  acquired  automated  production  of
passive optical components for the  telecommunications  and data  communications
markets. We believe our primary strength is the design of optical  subassemblies
for automation.  Our team has a  comprehensive  background in the field of fiber
optics, taking research efforts "off the bench" and into manufacturing.  Drawing
upon  years of  experience  in  automation,  optoelectronic  package  design and
testing,  and a multitude of technical  disciplines,  we have demonstrated novel
solutions for today's WDM design and processing challenges. By targeting product
families  and  creating  common  platforms  for  each,  we  can  rapidly  tailor
variations within a family,  as the customer  demands,  without major process or
tooling  changes.  This philosophy is evident in our  proprietary  micro-fixture
design and automated platform manufacturing process. This platform allows robots
to mount  micro-optics in small  transferable  fixtures that can be processed at
various levels and converted into a variety of finished products. We believe our
isolator has a  competitive  advantage  for a certain  segment of OEM  business,
since  our  proprietary   platform  allows  us  to  produce  unique  designs  at
competitive prices in a flexible, automated process.

     In  fiscal  2002,  we  went  into  production  on a new  line  of  isolator
assemblies for  application in the metro and access  telecom  markets.  This new
line is based on a  flexible  manufacturing  platform  which can  address a wide
range of customer specifications while attracting lower cost applications.

     ASPHERIC LENSES

     Lenses in  telecommunications  applications perform two major tasks. One is
for the collimation of light as it emerges from the fiber. This collimated light
then passes through multiple  components  including  isolators,  filters,  and a
second collimator,  before returning back into a fiber. The second major task is
coupling light at the output of a laser diode to a fiber or waveguide.  Aspheric
lenses and lens arrays are used in both of these configurations.

                                       8
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


     Telecom  products  manufactured  using  this  technology  include  aspheric
lenses,  sub-millimeter lenses and lens arrays.  Several new products using this
technology are under  development.  These new products include low-cost aspheric
lenses,  anamorphic lenses,  cross cylinder lenses and  multifunctional  optical
components.  All of these  products also have key  relevancy for many  different
market applications outside of the telecommunications market.

     SWITCHES

     In 1999, we entered into an exclusive  licensing agreement with Herzel Laor
for the commercialization of two fiberoptic opto-mechanical switch technologies.
In August 2000 we introduced the LP1600 opto-mechanical  switch. The LP1600 is a
1xN  optical  switch,  which  is  designed  to route  one  incoming  fiber  into
one-of-many  output fibers. The current design allows customers to select custom
configurations  of 4 to 24 output channels.  The LP1600 had patent  applications
filed and was sold in small quantities in fiscal 2002. We planned to manufacture
the  LP1600 at our  Albuquerque  locationhowever,  due to the  current  economic
environment we suspended  expenditures required to launch this product in fiscal
2002.

     OTHER PRODUCTS

     We are currently developing  additional  optoelectronics  products based on
our  proprietary  technologies.  Key strategic  alliances  with  technology  and
marketing  partners  to  design,  build  and  sell  next  generation  integrated
components  and devices may be  considered  in the  future.  However,  we do not
currently have any agreements,  other than those discussed  above, to enter into
any strategic alliances for this purpose.

TRADITIONAL OPTICS

     LASER MARKETS FOR GRADIUM LENSES

     We initially  emphasized  laser products because we believed GRADIUM lenses
could have a substantial  immediate  commercial  impact in laser products with a
relatively small initial investment. The majority of lens sales is due to optics
used by YAG lasers.  Generally,  optical  designers can  substitute our standard
GRADIUM glass components for existing laser lens elements.  Lasers are presently
used extensively in a broad range of consumer and commercial products, including
fiber  optics,  robotics,  wafer chip  inspection,  bar code  reading,  document
reproduction  and audio and video compact disc machines.  Because  GRADIUM glass
can  concentrate  light  transmission  into  a  much  smaller  focal  spot  than
conventional  lenses,  we believe,  and  customers  test results  confirm,  that
GRADIUM  glass  has the  ability  to  improve  the  current  standard  of  laser
performance.  In 1998, our  distributor,  Permanova  Lasersystems  AB of Sweden,
completed a lengthy  trial and testing  period on GRADIUM YAG lenses  which they
qualified into systems produced by Rofin-Sinar GmbH, a major OEM manufacturer of
high-powered CO2 and YAG lasers, headquartered in Germany.

     Our growth  strategy is to increase our emphasis on key laser market niches
and  establish  the necessary  products and  partnership  alliances to sell into
Europe and Asia as well as the U.S.  market.  During fiscal 1999,  LightPath and
Rodenstock  Prazisionsoptik GmbH (Rodenstock)  executed an agreement to transfer
to Rodenstock the exclusive, application-related utilization and distribution of
GRADIUM lenses  throughout  Europe.  The agreement was for an initial  five-year
period.  Rodenstock sold their precision  optics division to Linos AG, a pioneer
in the  field  of  photonics,  in  June  2000.  We  believe  our  agreement  and
relationships will continue to grow under the Linos AG/Rodenstock  alliance.  We
also have established relationships with eight additional foreign distributors.

     MOLDED ASPHERES

     Through  our  acquisition  of  Geltech,  we  purchased  the  rights  to the
Precision Molded Optics process. Our traditional optics product applications are
molded  aspheres  used in optical data storage,  high  precision  printing,  bar
coding and by manufacturers of some medical equipment.

                                       9
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


     ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS ("OEMS")

     In addition to laser applications, through our printed and Internet on-line
catalog,  we offer a standard line of GRADIUM glass lenses for broad-based sales
to  optical  designers  developing  particular  systems  for  OEMs  or  in-house
products.  Because complex systems contain many optical components,  and GRADIUM
glass  lenses can be  utilized  to reduce the  number of lens  elements  in such
systems,  we believe  that  GRADIUM  glass  lenses can  simplify  the design and
improve  the  performance  of  complex  optical  systems.  However,  design  and
production of an optical product is a lengthy process, and it may take years for
producers to redesign  complex optical systems using GRADIUM glass,  reconfigure
the product housing,  re-engineer the assembly  process and commence  commercial
quantity orders for GRADIUM glass  components.  Accordingly,  we intend to focus
our long-term marketing efforts on emerging industries,  such as optoelectronics
and fiber  telecommunications  designed in next-generation  optical systems, and
performance  driven  industries  that are  seeking to  optimize  performance  of
existing optical products.

     We believe  OEM  relationships  may  improve  our  ability to develop  more
sophisticated technology development methods and products, although there can be
no assurances in this regard.  Such OEM relationships  have been utilized in the
development of prototype  lenses for  manufacturers of endoscopes and wafer chip
inspection equipment.  We will evaluate future OEM projects based on a number of
factors, including our assessment of the OEM's ability to fund the design effort
for the project and expected impact upon future sales.

SALES AND MARKETING

     Extensive   product  diversity  and  varying  levels  of  product  maturity
characterize  the optics  industry.  Product  markets range from consumer (e.g.,
cameras,  copiers) to industrial  (e.g.,  lasers,  data storage),  from products
where the lenses are the central  feature  (e.g.,  telescopes,  microscopes)  to
products incorporating lens components (e.g., robotics, semiconductor production
equipment).  Emerging  technology markets require optics for bandwidth expansion
and data transfer improvement in the drive to achieve an all optical network. As
a  result,  the  market  for our  products  is  highly  segmented  and no single
marketing approach will allow us to access all available market segments.

     Since fiscal 1998, our primary marketing objective has been the development
and  marketing  of passive  components  for the  optoelectronics  segment of the
telecommunications  industry  and laser based  products  in the  general  optics
product  arena.  The  narrowing  of our  product  focus was in  response  to the
opportunities  in the emerging  optoelectronics  market where we believe we have
key advantages and our success in sales of laser based products.  We believe our
key advantages are:

     -    we have developed packaging solutions for optoelectronic products;
     -    we have  been  able  to  develop  patentable  processes  with  optical
          materials that provide product solutions; and
     -    through automation, we have developed low cost production techniques.

Combining these  elements,  we believe we have the opportunity to enter into key
optical  telecommunications  markets  with  products  that are enabling and cost
effective.  Although the same design constraints and technological  shortcomings
of conventional  optical technology and materials restrict all optical products,
we believe that our  proprietary  manufacturing  processes,  as well as the high
quality associated with GRADIUM glass,  results in a competitive  advantage over
other glass  products  currently  available  in our targeted  markets.  With our
acquisitions,  we have added to our line of  passive  optical  components  while
maintaining  our emphasis on low cost production  from  automation,  and added a
product line sold into the active optical  component markets as well as products
to be sold into DWDM systems.

                                       10
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


OPTOELECTRONICS AND FIBER TELECOMMUNICATIONS

     In order to be more  accessible to potential  customers we have divided our
sales  staff  into  the  following  territorial  areas  because  of  their  high
concentrations of telecom users:

     -    NorthWest
     -    SouthWest
     -    MidWest
     -    SouthEast
     -    NorthEast

     In  addition,  we have  formalized  relationships  with  eight  industrial,
optoelectronics and medical component  distributors located in foreign countries
to assist in distribution of telecom products outside the United States. Because
the  optics  industry  is highly  fragmented,  we utilize  distributors  and our
Internet  site  (www.lightpath.com)  as vehicles  for broader  promotion  of our
telecom  products.  We have  placed,  and will  continue  to place,  print media
advertisements  in various trade  magazines and will  participate in appropriate
domestic and foreign trade shows.

     The target market for our current  products is concentrated  within several
industry  experts such as Corning,  Inc., JDS Uniphase  Corporation  and Alcatel
Optronics.  The lens and standard collimator are used in free space applications
where coupling to an optical fiber is required.  We are developing these initial
products  into  families  of products as  variations  are made to meet  specific
customer  requirements.  Our  focus  will be on the  standard  collimator  as we
believe that the standard  collimator will replace the collimating  lens in many
applications.

     Since  many  of  our  targeted  customers   currently  assemble  their  own
collimators,  our sales  approach will be to highlight  the standard  collimator
price/performance  ratio  (value) and compare  that to the  customer's  internal
costs plus their lost  opportunity  cost.  During  fiscal  2001,  our large beam
collimator was selected as the primary customized  collimator built specifically
for Corning's  PurePath(TM)  Wavelength  Selective Switch. This product utilizes
both a GRADIUM  lens and a standard  collimator  which  takes  advantage  of the
unique properties of both components.

     Telecom  product  sales  for  fiscal  years  2002,   2001,  and  2000  were
approximately  $8.3 million,  $21.1  million,  and $1.5  million,  respectively,
primarily generated by targeting our sales efforts on collimators and isolators,
entry level products  currently  used by the  telecommunications  industry.  Our
major telecom  customers in fiscal 2002,  2001 and 2000 included  Finisar Corp.,
Agere Systems, Inc., Lucent, Inc., Corning, Inc. and JDS Uniphase Corporation.

     Our   marketing   plan  for   isolators   targets   niche  players  in  the
telecom/datacom  markets  with  high  volume  potential  for  the  next  decade.
Specifically,  we are  focusing  on  the  following  market  segments:  (i)  WDM
long-haul   system   manufacturers,   (ii)  cable   television   carrier  system
manufacturers,   (iii)  "metro  loop"  system  manufacturers,   and  (iv)  Fiber
Channel/Gigabit  Ethernet system  manufacturers.  The largest isolator customers
were Finisar Corp. with sales of approximately  $2.4 million in fiscal 2002, and
Agere Systems, Inc. ("Agere") (formerly the Microelectronics  division of Lucent
Technologies  Inc.) with sales of $11.4  million and $900,000 in fiscal 2001 and
2000,  respectively.   These  customers  represent  two  platforms:  free  space
isolators  and a  low-cost  isolator  platform  to be used in the  metro  access
markets.

     Our marketing plan for molded aspheres targets the asphere lenses used with
DFB lasers and tunable  lasers,  major customers being Alcatel and other telecom
companies.  In  addition,  we are  focusing on several  high volume  non-telecom
opportunities in defense,  medical devices,  other laser applications as well as
data storage.

     In addition to our telecom  products  business,  we are planning to provide
modules  where  several of our  components  are  integrated  with  automation to
provide a subassembly  to the customer.  We have  introduced a number of modules
which will combine two or more of our current  components,  such as the isolator
and molded aspheres,  into a subassembly.  During fiscal 2002 we began to expand

                                       11
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


modules offerings and to automate the manufacturing of modules to take advantage
of low cost assembly.  Current passive optical modules include the OASIS(TM) and
Vectra(TM)  collimator  arrays.  We believe  these modules have the potential to
provide higher gross profit margins than the individual components.  We are also
addressing our customers DWDM needs by focusing our development  team efforts on
a  "micro-collimator"  assembly to target  numerous  requests for  manufacturing
services related to collimating  packages.  Our micro lens array has application
in optical switching,  waveguide  coupling and fiber array coupling.  Generally,
inquiries for these products have been coming from producers of next  generation
switches,  MEMS and other optical devices  requesting  assistance with packaging
and volume production.

     STRATEGIC ALLIANCES

     WDM MODEL AND DWDM PROTOTYPES

     Since fiscal 1997,  we have entered  into  strategic  alliances  with other
companies in an effort to quickly enter into the  optoelectronics  markets.  For
example,  we currently own  approximately 13% of the preferred and common shares
outstanding of LightChip.  LightChip  successfully  demonstrated a WDM model and
DWDM  prototypes  with product sales beginning in calendar 2001. We licensed the
use of GRADIUM glass, as well as any newly developed  intellectual  property, in
the field of  fiber-optic  communication  systems,  components  and  devices  to
LightChip.  We  have  retained  the  rights  to  the  specific  areas  of  fiber
collimators,   isolators,  amplifiers,   circulators,  couplers,  splitters  and
fiber-optic switches.

     SWITCHES

     In 1999, we entered into an exclusive  licensing agreement with Herzel Laor
for the commercialization of two fiberoptic opto-mechanical switch technologies.
In August 2000 we introduced the LP1600 opto-mechanical  switch. The LP1600 is a
1xN  optical  switch,  which  is  designed  to route  one  incoming  fiber  into
one-of-many  output fibers. The current design allows customers to select custom
configurations  of 4 to 24 output  channels.  The Company planned to manufacture
the LP1600,  for which patent  applications  have been filed, at its Albuquerque
location.  Due to  the  current  economic  environment  we  elected  to  suspend
expenditures required to launch this product in fiscal 2002.

     TRADE SHOWS

     We have  displayed our product line additions and  enhancements  at various
trade  shows each year.  During the third  quarter of fiscal  2002,  the Company
announced five new products  designed for use in both long-haul and metropolitan
area  (metro)  networks  which we  displayed  at the March  2002  Optical  Fiber
Communication  Conference  ("OFC") held in Anaheim,  California.  These five new
products are examples of how we believe LightPath can provide added value to our
customers.  Each one utilizes  advanced  manufacturing  technology to `build-in'
much of the optical alignment work that was formerly  performed by the customer.
They also underscore  LightPath's  strategic directive of broadening our base of
innovative optical components and assemblies by combining  application  specific
engineering with automated manufacturing. These shows provide an opportunity for
us to meet with potential customers,  distribute  information and samples of our
products and to discuss test results from samples previously sent.

TRADITIONAL OPTICS

     Prior to our IPO in 1996,  our  resources  had been  applied  primarily  to
research and  development;  consequently,  LightPath  and GRADIUM glass were not
introduced  to the  commercial  market.  Promotion of our  products  through the
Internet,  trade  advertising  in  industrial  magazines  and  participation  in
numerous  domestic and foreign trade shows  increased  interest and awareness of
our products,  resulting in additional lens sales. Traditional optics lens sales
for fiscal  years 2002,  2001 and 2000 were  approximately  $4.2  million,  $5.1
million and $768,000,  respectively. The growth in 2001 was primarily due to the

                                       12
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


acquisition of Geltech's  traditional  optics business in September 2000,  which
accounted  for $4 million of  traditional  optics sales in fiscal 2001.  Asphere
products are used in data  storage and by  manufacturers  of medical  equipment.
Lens  sales  are  primarily  due to sales of lenses  for  laser  and wafer  chip
inspection markets.  Our sales efforts in targeting laser applications,  an area
where  GRADIUM  lenses  increase  the  quality of YAG laser beams and reduce the
focal spot size, has received market acceptance. Our primary customers in fiscal
2002, 2001 and 2000 included  Presstek,  Coherent,  Gerhard Franck Optronik GmBH
and Permanova Laser Systems AB.

     INDUSTRIAL AND OPTOELECTRONIC DISTRIBUTORS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES

     We have formalized  relationships  with eight industrial and optoelectronic
distributors located in foreign countries. Because the optics industry is highly
fragmented,  we utilize  distributors  and the  Internet as vehicles for broader
promotion of GRADIUM glass products.  Our Internet web site  (www.lightpath.com)
is one source of information on GRADIUM glass, and potential  customers can view
products from our catalog.  We have placed,  and will  continue to place,  print
media advertisements in various trade magazines and will participate in selected
domestic  and  foreign  trade  shows.  We have  developed  a network of selected
independent  optical  engineering  firms to promote  the sale of  GRADIUM  glass
products. Presently, eight optical engineering firms provide such optical design
services and support.

     PROMOTIONAL AND EDUCATION ACTIVITIES FOR OPTICAL DESIGNERS

     As  part  of our  marketing  strategy,  we have  provided  promotional  and
educational activities concerning GRADIUM glass and its properties,  intended to
familiarize and educate optical engineers from numerous, high performance optics
markets. We presently have six standard profiles of GRADIUM glass that engineers
can use for product  design,  and we will  continue to develop more  profiles as
required.  Our existing  GRADIUM glass profiles are compatible with  established
software design programs utilized by optical  designers,  enabling  designers to
integrate  GRADIUM  glass into their  designs.  While this enables  designers to
incorporate  GRADIUM glass into their existing product design,  we must increase
familiarity  with  GRADIUM  glass  so that  designers  will be  more  likely  to
incorporate GRADIUM glass in their original designs. If a standard GRADIUM glass
profile is not suited for a specific design,  we have the capability to create a
custom  GRADIUM  glass  profile for the  customer.  Our  objective is to educate
optical designers, through the distribution of materials, about the potential of
GRADIUM glass to provide them with additional  flexibility and design freedom to
create optical products more efficiently and with enhanced performance.

COMPETITION

OPTOELECTRONICS AND FIBER TELECOMMUNICATIONS

     The telecommunications  marketplace is renowned for its product quality and
reliability demands. Every item must pass rigorous testing before being designed
into devices and systems.  We must establish a reputation as a quality supplier.
The products  must perform as claimed so that the customer will not need to test
after the initial  qualification,  and we must be open to continuous improvement
of our  products  and  processes.  If we can pass these  tests we believe we can
become a primary  or second  source  supplier  to the  industry.  However,  this
industry  is subject to,  among other  risks,  intense  competition  and rapidly
changing  technology,  and  there  can be no  assurances  as to our  ability  to
anticipate and respond to the demands and competitive aspects of this industry.

     COLLIMATORS AND MOLDED ASPHERES

     There  are  currently  only  a  handful  of  direct   competitors  for  our
collimating  lenses  and  standard  collimator.  Nippon  Sheet  Glass  currently
supplies the majority of collimator  lenses.  The collimator  lens is a separate
business  from Nippon Sheet  Glass's  primary  product,  automotive  glass.  Our
standard collimator competes against existing collimator  assemblies,  which are
produced  by  Casix(acquired  by  JDS  Uniphase),  DiCon  Fiberoptics,   Samsung
Electronics,  Wave  Optics and Oz Optics.  There are also a number of  companies
that assemble their own  collimators,  such as Lucent,  and JDS Uniphase.  These
competitors have greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and other resources

                                       13
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


than LightPath. We are aware of current research projects that integrate optical
technologies,  such as  existing  planar  waveguide  structures,  which have the
potential to replace  some of the current  collimator  applications.  We believe
that many of these  products  currently have  limitations  which have made their
wide spread usage  unfeasible,  thereby  reducing the likelihood  that they will
replace current collimator applications in the immediate future.

     We  compete  with Hoya  Corporation  and Asahi  Corporation  in the  molded
asphere lens market.  In addition,  for lower performance  driven  applications,
Geltech competes with manufacturers of plastic aspheres.

     ISOLATORS

     We compete with a few specific  players in the isolator  segment of the WDM
components market. These include Namiki, TDK, Tokin, Kyocera, Sumitomo and Kaifa
Technology  (acquired by  E-TEK/JDS  Uniphase).  Our  strategy  does not involve
direct competition with the "catalog"  offerings of these companies;  rather, we
focus our efforts on designing and manufacturing specialty and hybrid components
according to particular  OEM  specifications  by  delivering  flexible and novel
packaging solutions achieved by our automated platform.

TRADITIONAL OPTICS

     The  market  for  optical  components  is  highly  competitive  and  highly
fragmented.  We  compete  with  manufacturers  of  conventional  spherical  lens
products  and  optical  components,  providers  of  aspheric  lenses and optical
components  and  producers of optical  quality  glass.  To a lesser  extent,  we
compete with developers of radial gradient lenses and optical  components.  Many
of these competitors have greater financial, manufacturing,  marketing and other
resources than we do.

     Manufacturers  of  conventional   lenses  and  optical  components  include
industry  giants  such as Eastman  Kodak  Corporation,  Nikon,  Olympus  Optical
Company,  Carl Zeiss and Leica AG. In addition to being substantial producers of
optical  components,  these entities are also some of the primary  customers for
such  components,   incorporating  them  into  finished  products  for  sale  to
end-users. Consequently, these competitors have significant control over certain
markets  for  our  products.  In  addition,  although  these  companies  do  not
manufacture  axial  gradient  lenses,  and  although  we  believe  that  we have
substantial technological expertise in this field, these companies could rapidly
pursue  development of axial gradient  products,  in light of their  substantial
resources.  In addition,  our products  compete  with other  products  currently
produced by these manufacturers.

     Manufacturers of aspheric lenses and optical components provide significant
competition  for our traditional  optics in providing  products that improve the
shortcomings of conventional lenses.  Aspheric lens system manufacturers include
Eastman Kodak  Corporation,  Hoya Corporation,  Schott Glass,  Hikari Glass Co.,
Ltd. and U.S.  Precision Lens. The use of aspheric surfaces provides the optical
designer with a powerful tool in correcting spherical  aberrations and enhancing
performance in state-of-the-art optical products. But the nonspheric surfaces of
glass  "aspheres"  are difficult to fabricate and test,  are limited in diameter
range and induce light  scatter.  Plastic  molded  aspheres,  on the other hand,
allow for high volume production, but primarily are limited to low-tech consumer
products that do not place a high demand on performance  (such as plastic lenses
in disposable  cameras).  Molded plastic aspheres appear in products that stress
weight, size and cost as their measure of success.

     To a lesser extent,  we compete with  manufacturers of other gradient index
lens materials. Currently, processes to produce gradient index materials include
ion-exchange,  chemical vapor deposition and Sol-Gel, all of which produce small
radial gradient index rods with limited applications.  Manufacturers using these
processes include Nippon Sheet Glass, Olympus Optical Company, and Gradient Lens
Corporation. We believe that these processes are limited by the small refractive
index  change  achievable  (typically,  < 0.05),  the  small  skin  depth of the
gradient  region  (typically  < 3 mm),  the lack of  control of the shape of the
resultant  gradient  profile,  limited  glass  compositions,  and  high per unit
manufacturing costs.

                                       14
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


MANUFACTURING

     COLLIMATORS AND GRADIUM

     LightPath  has  full  scale  commercial  manufacturing  operations  in  its
Albuquerque,  New Mexico  facilities,  totaling  30,300 square feet  including a
5,000  square  foot clean  room that  houses our  manufacturing  stations.  Each
station  includes  laser fusion and housing  equipment and an automated  testing
process. We currently have two laser polishing stations in operation.  With this
equipment,  we believe our facilities can meet the capacity  requirements of our
planned telecom products for several years.  Due to manufacturing  techniques we
have developed,  we believe our costs to produce the standard collimator will be
less than the traditional industry manufacturing costs.

     In April 1996, we built out our lens  manufacturing  plant for  traditional
optics. We believe that the present manufacturing facility can produce in excess
of 2 million lens blanks per year depending on product size and mix. However, in
the  fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  2002 we sold our  larger,  more  sophisticated
furnaces,  milling machines and metrology equipment to Hikari Glass Co., Ltd. of
Japan (a 40%  owned  subsidiary  of  Nikon)  ("Hikari")  as part of a  licensing
agreement  whereby  they  will  manufacture  GRADIUM  glass  for  LightPath  and
distribute to their own customers.

     Much of our  product  qualification  is  performed  in-house.  Our test and
evaluation  capabilities include Damp Heat, High/Low Temp Storage, and a Thermal
Shock Oven, which are  representative of the equipment required to meet BellCore
Testing requirements.  Our engineering  departments have full design and CAD/CAM
technical  support.  The  implementation  of  Statistical  Process  Controls has
allowed us to eliminate costly manual testing operations. We believe the ability
to maintain  consistently high quality at the  manufacturing  stage represents a
significant  and  distinctive  characteristic  of our  production  capabilities.
Quality  control  will be  critical  to our  ability to bring  telecommunication
products to market as the customers  demand rigorous testing prior to purchasing
a product.

     During the fourth  quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company  announced  plans to
relocate  the  collimator  and  GRADIUM  glass  manufacturing   operations  from
Albuquerque to Orlando by September 30, 2002. We intend to move a portion of our
manufacturing  and product  qualification  equipment to this facility.  We wrote
down underutilized  assets at June 30, 2002 and these assets will be disposed of
during  fiscal 2003. We will attempt to sublet any leases which do not expire in
fiscal 2003.

     SUBCONTRACTORS; STRATEGIC ALLIANCES

     We believe  that low cost  manufacturing  will be crucial to our  long-term
success.  We presently use  subcontractors  for finishing lenses,  including the
collimator  lens,  and  intend  to  continue  to do so.  We  have  the  internal
capability to finish prototype lenses and small volume orders. We have qualified
and  licensed  numerous  finishers  to  fabricate  lenses,  several of which are
located in Asia.  Qualification of additional  offshore finishers to augment our
strategy of maximizing cost efficiencies will continue to be a top manufacturing
priority  while the assembly  and  alignment  of  collimators  will be done with
automation at our manufacturing facilities.

     We entered into a 1997 strategic  alliance with Hikari as a possible second
source for GRADIUM glass production,  as a possible source for high-volume blank
production,  to increase the presence of GRADIUM  glass in Hikari's  established
Asian markets and to develop a continuous flow manufacturing process,  currently
used by Hikari for high-end optical lenses.  In February 2000,  Hikari announced
that they intended to spend $5 million to purchase equipment  necessary to build
out a second facility for GRADIUM glass materials and other products. During the
fourth  quarter of fiscal 2002 these old  agreements  were  cancelled  and a new
licensing  arrangement  was executed,  whereby Hikari will  manufacture  GRADIUM
glass for LightPath as well as Hikari customers throughout Asia.

     We have taken steps to protect our  proprietary  methods of repeatable high
quality manufacturing by patent disclosures and internal trade secret controls.

                                       15
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


     SUPPLIERS

     Base optical materials,  used in both  optoelectronic and traditional optic
products, are manufactured and supplied by a number of major manufacturers, such
as Hikari,  Schott Glaswerke and Hoya Corporation.  Optical fiber and collimator
housings are manufactured and supplied by a number of major manufacturers,  such
as Corning. We believe that a satisfactory  supply of production  materials will
continue  to be  available  at  reasonable  prices,  although  there  can  be no
assurance in this regard.

     ISOLATORS

     Our  isolator   manufacturing  lines  are  housed  in  approximately  5,000
square-feet  of clean room space  (certified  Class  10,000)  within the Walnut,
California  facility.  The  manufacturing  lab contains  dual beam laser welding
stations,  sub-micron  alignment engines,  robotic assembly stations,  automated
dispensing  systems and precision  dicing  equipment.  A tool and die operation,
including EDM  capability,  is located in a separate shop and assembly area. The
shop supports  product design and  automation  efforts  including  metrology and
inspection,  part  prototype  fabrication  for  proof of  concept,  and  machine
building from prototype to production line. The primary benefits of our approach
to  manufacturing  are (i)  reduced  costs  as a result  of  higher  yields  and
throughput,  and (ii)  product  consistency  as a result of  eliminating  manual
labor. We believe we are the only manufacturer of free-space isolators currently
using  automated   manufacturing.   The  Walnut  facility  has  similar  product
qualification processes and equipment as the Albuquerque facility.

     SUPPLIERS

     We currently  purchase a few key materials from single or limited  sources.
The  polarizing  glass used in our  isolator  products is supplied  primarily by
Corning and is marketed as  Polarcor(TM).  To date, we have been able to acquire
an ample  supply of  polarizing  glass.  Garnet and other  crystals  used in our
isolator products are provided by a number of vendors, including Casix, Sumitomo
and TDK.  Available  quantities  and  adequate  pricing of garnet has not proven
problematic.  We believe that a satisfactory supply of production materials will
continue  to be  available  at  competitive  prices,  although  there  can be no
assurance in this regard.

     We rely on local and  regional  vendors  for  component  materials  such as
housings,  fixtures and magnets. In addition,  certain products require external
processing such as brazing and  metalization.  To date, we have found a suitable
number of qualified vendors in the Southern California market.

     MOLDED ASPHERES

     Our  manufacturing  lines for  molded  aspheres  are housed in a new 41,000
square feet, production facility in Orlando,  Florida which we moved into in the
second quarter of fiscal 2002.  This space was designed to  accommodate  current
and future growth needs in Orlando.  The new facility  features  extensive clean
room operations, expanded tooling and coating work areas, and expanded areas for
the production of micro-lens arrays and passive integrated  assemblies.  The new
production   facility   will  also   emphasize   automation  in  all  phases  of
manufacturing. The new facility is expected to provide Geltech with the platform
to significantly reduce costs through process  improvements and automation,  and
provide the capacity  needed for the  fulfillment of high volume  opportunities.
The  facility  includes   extensive  research  and  development  labs  featuring
state-of-the-art  equipment and metrology. The manufacturing plants include lens
pressing equipment, high precision mold production equipment, advanced metrology
and inspection  equipment and coating facilities.  The Orlando plant features an
extensive tooling and machine shop, developed for the fabrication of proprietary
press workstations, and advanced mold development.

     During the fourth  quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company  announced  plans to
relocate  the  collimator  and  GRADIUM  glass  manufacturing   operations  from
Albuquerque to Orlando by September 30, 2002.

                                       16
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


     SUPPLIERS

     We utilize a number of glass compositions for the manufacture of our molded
glass aspheres and lens array  products.  One such glass is a proprietary  glass
composition  licensed  from and  manufactured  by Corning  Inc.  Corning Inc. is
currently  the sole  source  for  this  glass  composition.  We  believe  that a
satisfactory  supply of  production  materials  will continue to be available at
competitive prices, although there can be no assurance in this regard. Suppliers
and second sources of other glass compositions are readily available.

     We also rely on local and  regional  vendors for  component  materials  and
services such as chemicals and inert gases,  specialty ceramics, UV coatings and
other specialty coatings.  To date, we have found a suitable number of qualified
vendors for these materials and services.

PATENTS AND OTHER PROPRIETARY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

     Our policy is to protect our  technology  by, among other things,  patents,
trade secret protection,  trademarks and copyrights.  As of June 2002, LightPath
and its subsidiaries  have fifty-six issued U.S. patents,  thirty-three  foreign
patents and have filed numerous  applications  for  additional  U.S. and foreign
patents.  Patents have been issued,  and/or patent applications have been filed,
in  the  areas  of  glass  composition,   glass  molding,  gradient  geometries,
production  processes,  sol-gel  processing,  product design,  fiber attachment,
robotic assembly and micro-fabrication.  The first of our issued patents expires
in 2006; the remainder expire at various times through 2019. Patent applications
corresponding to our U.S.  applications have been filed in the patent offices in
Europe and Japan  pursuant to the Patent  Cooperation  Treaty.  Under the Patent
Cooperation  Treaty, a patent applicant may file one patent application and have
it  acknowledged  as an accepted  filing in as many member nations to the Patent
Cooperation Treaty as the applicant elects.

     In addition to patent protection,  certain process inventions, lens designs
and innovations are retained as trade secrets. A key feature of GRADIUM glass is
that,  once  fabricated,  it does not reveal our formula upon inspection and, to
our knowledge, cannot be reverse-engineered.

     LightPath(R)  is now  registered as a service mark in the United States and
GRADIUM (R) is a registered  trademark.  Geltech's StableSil (R) is a registered
trademark.

     There can be no assurance  that any issued  patents owned by us will afford
adequate  protection  to us or  not be  challenged,  invalidated,  infringed  or
circumvented,  or that patent applications  relating to our products will result
in patents being issued. There can be no assurance that any rights granted to us
for  technologies  that we may  license in the future will  provide  competitive
advantages to us. There can be no assurance that patents owned or licensed by us
that  are  issued  in  one  jurisdiction  will  also  be  issued  in  any  other
jurisdiction. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the validity of any of
the patents  would be upheld if  challenged  by others in litigation or that our
activities would not infringe upon patents owned by others.

     Further,  there can be no  assurance  that  others  have not  independently
developed  or will not  independently  develop  and patent  similar or  superior
products and  technologies,  duplicate  any of our products or  technologies  or
design  around our  patents.  There can be no assurance  that patents  issued to
others will not adversely  affect the  development or  commercialization  of our
products  or  technologies.  We do not  have  an  insurance  policy  for  patent
infringement  liability  coverage  for costs or  damages  relating  to claims of
infringement.  We could  incur  substantial  costs in  defending  suits  brought
against us, or any of our licensees, or in suits in which we may assert that our
patent or patents  provide us with rights against others or in suits  contesting
the validity of a patent. Any such proceedings could be protracted. In addition,
there can be no assurance  that we would be  successful  in defending our patent
rights in any future infringement  action. If the outcome of any such litigation
is adverse to our interests, our business may be materially adversely affected.

                                       17
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


     We do not believe that any of our  products or processes  infringe any U.S.
or foreign patent rights of any other party. There can be no assurance, however,
that our products or  processes  do not  infringe on a United  States or foreign
patent,  or patent  application.  Patent  applications  in the United States are
maintained  in secrecy  until the patent is issued.  We could incur  substantial
costs in defending ourself in infringement  litigation  brought by others, or in
prosecuting infringement claims against third parties. An adverse party claiming
patent or copyright  infringement might assert claims for substantial damages or
seek to obtain an injunction or other equitable relief,  which could effectively
block the ability for us to make, use, distribute and sell products.

     We also rely on trade secrets and proprietary  know-how. We seek to protect
our  trade  secrets  and  proprietary  know-how,  in  part,  by  confidentiality
agreements with our employees,  consultants and customers. However, there can be
no assurance that our confidentiality agreements will not be breached or that we
would  have  adequate  remedies  for any  breach.  Some  of the  confidentiality
agreements that we rely upon will expire in the next few years.  There can be no
assurance  that others will not  independently  develop  technology or processes
substantially  equivalent to or better than our technology or processes, or that
our trade  secrets  will not  otherwise  become  disclosed  to or  independently
discovered by our competitors.

ENVIRONMENTAL AND GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     Currently, emissions and waste from our present manufacturing processes are
at such low  levels  that no  special  environmental  permits  or  licenses  are
required.  In the future,  we may need to obtain special permits for disposal of
increased  waste  by-products.  The glass  materials we utilize contain lead and
other  toxic  elements  in  a  stabilized  molecular  form.  However,  the  high
temperature diffusion process results in low-level emissions of such elements in
gaseous form. If production  reaches a certain level, we believe that we will be
able to efficiently recycle certain of our raw material waste,  thereby reducing
disposal  levels.  We  believe  that we are  presently  in  compliance  with all
material federal,  state and local laws and regulations governing our operations
and have obtained all material  licenses and permits necessary for the operation
of our business.

     Horizon  uses a  low-emission  spray booth for the  application  of certain
solvents and adhesives in its manufacturing process.  Horizon maintains a permit
for its spray  booth  through  its local air  quality  management  district  and
believes  it is in full  compliance  with all  applicable  regulations.  Geltech
utilizes certain  chemicals and solvents in its manufacturing  process.  Geltech
maintains all necessary  permits and believes it is in full  compliance with all
applicable regulations

     There are currently no federal,  state or local  regulations  that restrict
the  manufacturing  and  distribution of our telecom products or other products.
Certain  end-user  applications  will require that the complete  optical systems
receive government approval, such as U.S. Trade and Drug Administration approval
for use in  endoscopy.  In these  cases,  we will  generally  be  involved  on a
secondary  level and the OEM customer  will be  responsible  for the license and
approval process.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     From August 1985 through June 1996,  we were engaged in basic  research and
development  that resulted in the discovery of GRADIUM glass and the proprietary
processes  for  fabricating   GRADIUM  glass  lenses.   This  research  included
theoretical  development of the  mathematical  formulas for accurately  defining
GRADIUM  glass,  development  and  refinement  of the  prescribable,  repeatable
fabrication  process,  and  development  of  the  software  modeling  tools  and
metrology.  We shipped our first GRADIUM glass products in May 1994. Our initial
flint  product  line is  lead-based.  The flint  GRADIUM  glass  family has been
expanded over the years, to include crown glasses,  titania silicate glasses and
polymer materials. We intend to continue fundamental materials research, process
and production  optimization  and the  development of new glass  compositions to
create  different  "families"  and  geometries of GRADIUM glass  materials to be
offered to  customers.  "Families"  of glass are  various  base glass  compounds
comprised  of  different   elements.   Variation  of  refractive  index  can  be
accomplished by using different elements in glass.

                                       18
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


     Further  development  is necessary to produce  GRADIUM glass  materials for
high performance, white light applications (such as high performance microscopes
and other products where sensitive color  discrimination  is critical).  We will
continue to upgrade the material  design  modeling  software and optical  design
tools  to  facilitate   product  design.   Working  with  DR  Technologies,   we
successfully  completed the development of GRADIUM polymer and acrylic materials
in fiscal 1998.  These  materials  may be used for solar  concentrators  used in
space  applications  and for  conformal  optics  (optics  that conform to design
specifications  of aircraft  and  missiles)  where more  aerodynamic  shapes are
required.

     The  majority of present  development  efforts are focused on the  standard
collimator  assembly and integrated  modules.  Our acquired  businesses continue
their   efforts  in  the  area  of  isolators   and  next   generation   optical
subassemblies,   waveguides,  lens  arrays  and  sub-assembly  technologies.  We
incurred  expenditures for research and development  during the years ended June
30, 2002, 2001 and 2000 of $7,095,649, $7,089,931 and $1,449,347,  respectively.
In addition, during fiscal 2001and fiscal 2000, $9.1 million and $4.2 million of
in-process  research  and  developments  costs  were  expensed  related  to  the
acquisitions of Geltech and Horizon,  respectively.  We currently plan to expend
approximately  $3.6  million for research and  development  during  fiscal 2003,
which could vary depending upon the progress of projects  currently in the proof
of concept stage.

EMPLOYEES

     We currently have 167 full-time employees in California, New Mexico, Texas,
Florida and New Jersey. We expect to terminate approximately 67 employees in the
first quarter of fiscal 2003 as part of the  consolidation  we announced in June
2002.  Any  employee  additions  or  terminations  over the next twelve  months,
primarily  consisting of  manufacturing  personnel,  will be dependent  upon the
actual sales levels  realized  during  fiscal  2003.  Twenty-two  of our present
employees  are engaged in  management,  administrative  and clerical  functions,
twenty-one   in  research  and  product   development,   nineteen  in  equipment
automation,  eleven in sales and marketing and ninety-four are in production and
metrology.  We intend to continue  our current  practice  of  utilizing  outside
consultants,  where appropriate, in addition to hiring full-time personnel. None
of our employees are represented by labor unions.

                                       19
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


RISK FACTORS

THE FOLLOWING RISK FACTORS SHOULD BE READ BY YOU TOGETHER WITH THE MORE DETAILED
INFORMATION INCLUDED AT OTHER SECTIONS OF THE FORM 10-K. OUR FISCAL YEAR ENDS ON
JUNE 30 AND  REFERENCES  TO YEARS IN THE FORM 10K REFER TO OUR FISCAL YEAR ENDED
AS OF JUNE 30 OF THE REFERENCED CALENDAR YEAR.

RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS

WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND MAY CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES.

We have  incurred net losses of $50.7  million and $60.8  million for the fiscal
years  ended  June 30,  2002 and 2001,  respectively  and we had an  accumulated
deficit of $156 million as of June 30, 2002 . During our fiscal year ending June
30, 2002 we experienced  reduced  revenues due to the  unanticipated  widespread
softening of the U.S. economy and the telecommunications industry in particular.
We experienced  order  cancellations and extensions of product shipment dates by
our customers who adjusted their inventory levels in response to slower industry
growth.  These cancellations and extensions  adversely impacted our revenues and
could  result in higher  inventory  levels  than  required  to support our sales
levels. These conditions may significantly delay, and could prevent, our ability
to achieve  profitability.  We expect to continue to incur  significant  product
development,  sales and marketing and administrative expenses, and, as a result,
we will need to generate increased revenues to achieve profitability. Even if we
achieve profitability, given the competition in, and the evolving nature of, the
optical   networking  market,  we  may  not  be  able  to  sustain  or  increase
profitability  on a  quarterly  or annual  basis.  As a result,  we will need to
generate  significantly  higher  revenues while  containing  costs and operating
expenses if we are to achieve profitability.

WE FACE ORDER  CANCELLATIONS AND EXTENSIONS OF PRODUCT SHIPMENT DATES BY SOME OF
OUR CUSTOMERS.

Our sales are  generally  made  pursuant to purchase  orders that are subject to
cancellation,  modification or rescheduling without significant penalties to our
customers.  We have recently  experienced order  cancellations and extensions of
product  shipment  dates by some of our  customers.  If  these or other  current
customers stop placing orders,  or further reduce orders,  we may not be able to
replace these orders with orders from new customers. The majority of our current
customers  do not  have  any  minimum  purchase  obligations,  and they may stop
placing  orders with us at any time,  regardless  of any forecast  they may have
previously provided.  The loss of any of our key customers or further reductions
in sales to these  customers  would  reduce  our net  revenues  from the  levels
currently expected.

WE HAVE ANNOUNCED PLANS TO CONSOLIDATE FACILITIES

In June 2002 we announced  plans to  consolidate  our  collimator and other lens
production at our Orlando  facility and close our  Albuquerque  facilities.  The
widespread softening of the U.S. economy and the telecommunications  industry in
particular has required us to lower our manufacturing and  administrative  costs
and eliminate underutilized capacity. There can be no assurances that we will be
able to retain the key employees due to relocation.  We have limited  experience
with  consolidating  businesses within our organization.  Our efforts may not be
successful and may result in unanticipated  operational  problems,  expenses and
liabilities,  and our business may suffer as a result of diversion of management
attention  due to the  consolidation.  If we are  unable  to  consolidate  these
product  lines within our  organization  in a timely and effective  manner,  our
business and our operating results will be adversely affected.

WE HAVE ONLY RECENTLY BEGUN SELLING PRODUCTS TO THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY.

We  have  only   generated   revenues   from  the  sale  of   products   to  the
telecommunications  industry  since fiscal 1999.  Through June 1996, our primary
activities  were basic research and  development  of glass material  properties.
Moreover,  our ability to accurately forecast revenues is impacted by weaknesses
and  uncertainties   regarding  overall  demand  within  the  telecommunications
industry,  inventory  levels within the industry,  sudden order  reductions  and
cancellations  by  customers,  lower backlog of customer  orders,  and potential
pricing  pressures  that may arise  from  supply/demand  conditions  within  the
industry. Because we have only recently begun to sell these products, we have in

                                       20
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


the past and may in the future be unable to  accurately  forecast  our  revenues
from  sales  of  these  products,  and we  have  limited  meaningful  historical
financial  data  upon  which  to plan  future  operating  expenses.  Many of our
expenses are fixed in the short term,  and we may not be able to quickly  reduce
spending  if  our   revenue  is  lower  than  we  project.   Major  new  product
introductions  will also result in  increased  operating  expenses in advance of
generating revenues,  if any. Therefore,  net losses in a given quarter could be
greater than expected.  We may not be able to address the risks  associated with
our limited  operating  history in an emerging market and our business  strategy
may not be sustainable.  Failure to accurately  forecast our revenues and future
operating  expenses could cause  quarterly  fluctuations in our net revenues and
may result in volatility or a decline in our stock price.

OUR PRODUCTS  ARE AT AN EARLY STAGE OF  DEVELOPMENT  AND MAY NOT ACHIEVE  MARKET
ACCEPTANCE.

Many of our telecommunications products are still in the introductory phase, and
our current line of GRADIUM  products,  and other traditional  optics,  have not
generated  sufficient  revenues  to sustain  operations.  While we  believe  our
existing products are commercially viable, we anticipate the need to educate the
optical components market in order to generate market demand and market feedback
may require us to further  refine  these  products.  Development  of  additional
product lines will require  significant further research,  development,  testing
and marketing  prior to  commercialization.  There can be no assurance  that any
proposed products will be successfully developed,  demonstrate desirable optical
performance, be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at reasonable
costs or be successfully marketed.

OUR PRODUCTS HAVE NOT BEEN DEMONSTRATED TO BE COMMERCIALLY SUCCESSFUL.

Our collimator products have not yet achieved broad commercial  acceptance,  our
isolator sales first entered the commercial  production phase in April 2000 with
one significant  customer and our molded aspheres telecom  applications are new.
Although  we  are  engaged  in  negotiations   and  discussions  with  potential
customers,  there can be no  assurance  that any such  discussions  will lead to
development of commercially viable products or significant  revenues, if any, or
that any  products  currently  existing  or to be  developed  in the future will
attain sufficient market acceptance to generate  significant  revenues.  We must
also satisfy industry-standard  Telcordia testing on telecommunication  products
to meet customer requirements,  as well as satisfy prospective customers that we
will be able to meet their demand for  quantities  of products,  since we may be
the sole supplier and licensor.  We do not have experience as a manufacturer for
all our product lines and have limited financial resources.  We may be unable to
accomplish  any one or more of the foregoing to the extent  necessary to develop
market acceptance of our products.

Although our traditional  optics products have been accepted  commercially,  the
benefits of the GRADIUM  glass line are not widely  known.  In order to persuade
potential  customers  to  purchase  GRADIUM  products,  we will need to overcome
industry  resistance  to, and suspicion of,  gradient lens  technology  that has
resulted from previous failed attempts by various  researchers and manufacturers
unrelated to us to develop a repeatable, consistent process for producing lenses
with  variable  refractive  indices.  Prospective  customers  will  need to make
substantial  expenditures in order to redesign  products to incorporate  GRADIUM
lenses.  There  can be no  assurances  that  potential  customers  will view the
benefits of our products as sufficient to warrant such design expenditures.

WE DEPEND ON A FEW KEY CUSTOMERS.

In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002,  Finisar Corp.  accounted for 24% of our
net revenue. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 Agere Systems, Inc., Corning
Inc. and JDS Uniphase  accounted  for 44%,  7.4%,  and 5.2% of our net revenues,
respectively.  We anticipate that our operating  results will continue to depend
on sales to a relatively small number of significant customers.  The loss of any
of these customers,  or a significant  reduction in sales to any such customers,
could adversely affect our revenues.

                                       21
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


RISKS RELATED TO THE OPTICAL NETWORKING INDUSTRY

SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS  DEPENDS UPON  DEPLOYMENT  OF OPTICAL  NETWORKS TO SATISFY
INCREASED BANDWIDTH REQUIREMENTS.

Our future  success  depends on the  continuing  increase  in the amount of data
transmitted  over  communications  networks,  or  bandwidth,  and the  growth of
optical  networks to meet the increased  demand for  bandwidth.  If the Internet
does not continue to expand as a widespread communications medium and commercial
marketplace,  the need for significantly increased bandwidth across networks and
the market for optical networking  products may not continue to develop.  Future
demand for our  products is  uncertain  and will depend to a great degree on the
continued growth and upgrading of optical networks.  If the growth and upgrading
of optical networks does not continue,  sales of our products may decline, which
would adversely affect our revenues.

THE OPTICAL  NETWORKING  MARKET IS NEW AND  UNPREDICTABLE  AND  CHARACTERIZED BY
RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES AND EVOLVING STANDARDS.

The optical  networking  market is relatively new and is  characterized by rapid
technological change,  frequent new product  introductions,  changes in customer
requirements and evolving industry standards.  Because this market is relatively
new,  it is  difficult  to predict its  potential  size or future  growth  rate.
Widespread  adoption of optical  networks  is  critical  to our future  success.
Potential  end-user customers who have invested  substantial  resources in their
existing  copper lines or other  systems may be reluctant or slow to adopt a new
approach,  like optical  networks.  Our success in  generating  revenues in this
emerging market will depend on, among other things:

     -    maintaining and enhancing our relationships with our customers;
     -    the  education of potential  end-user  customers  and network  service
          providers about the benefits of optical networks; and
     -    our ability to  accurately  predict  and develop our  products to meet
          industry standards.

If we fail to address changing market conditions,  the sales of our products may
decline, which would adversely impact our revenues.

WE MUST INCREASE OUR SALES VOLUMES,  REDUCE OUR COSTS OR INTRODUCE HIGHER MARGIN
PRODUCTS TO OFFSET  ANTICIPATED  REDUCTIONS IN THE AVERAGE SELLING PRICES OF OUR
PRODUCTS.

We have  experienced  decreases  in the  average  selling  prices of some of our
products,  including most of our passive component products.  We anticipate that
as products in the optical component and module market become more commoditized,
the  average  selling  prices  of our  products  may  decrease  in  response  to
competitive pricing pressures,  new product introductions by us, our competitors
or other  factors.  The  optical  component  and module  market is  experiencing
extreme  volatility  as a result of lower  product  demand,  which  will make it
difficult  for us to increase our sales  volume.  If we are unable to offset the
anticipated  decrease  in our average  selling  prices by  increasing  our sales
volumes or product  mix, our net revenues  and gross  margins will  decline.  In
addition,  to maintain or improve our gross margins,  we must continue to reduce
the  manufacturing  cost of our products,  and we must develop and introduce new
products and product  enhancements with higher margins. If we cannot maintain or
improve our gross  margins,  our financial  position may be harmed and our stock
price may decline.

RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS

OUR FUTURE SUCCESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP AND SUCCESSFULLY  INTRODUCE
NEW AND ENHANCED PRODUCTS THAT MEET THE NEEDS OF OUR CUSTOMERS.

Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate our customers' needs and
develop  products  that address  those needs.  Introduction  of new products and
product  enhancements  will  require  that we  effectively  transfer  production
processes  from research and  development  to  manufacturing  and coordinate our
efforts with the efforts of our suppliers to rapidly  achieve  efficient  volume
production.  If we fail to effectively  transfer production  processes,  develop
product  enhancements  or  introduce  new  products  that  meet the needs of our
customers as scheduled, our net revenues may decline.

                                       22
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE ACQUIRED COMPANIES,  OUR BUSINESS MAY
BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

During the calendar  year ended  December 31, 2000, we acquired both Horizon and
Geltech in separate transactions.  The efficient integration of these businesses
into our  organization  will be  important to our  success.  If our  integration
efforts prove to be unsuccessful,  our business will suffer.  We have spent, and
expect  to  continue  to  spend,  significant  financial,  management  and other
resources to integrate  these  businesses into our  organization.  Our headcount
increased substantially as a result of the acquisitions, and these new employees
must be integrated  with our existing  employees.  Both Horizon and Geltech were
privately  held and may  require  substantial  investments  in  operational  and
financial  infrastructure to ensure that their systems and processes  adequately
support operating as a publicly held organization.  Each of these  organizations
will also need additional  investments in manufacturing  infrastructure in order
to  develop  new  products  and  ramp up  production  volumes.  There  can be no
assurances  that we will be able to retain  the key  employees  of  Horizon  and
Geltech.  We have limited experience with integrating  acquired  businesses into
our organization.  Our integration  efforts may not be successful and may result
in unanticipated operations problems, expenses and liabilities and the diversion
of management attention.  If we are unable to integrate these companies into our
organization  in a timely and effective  manner,  our business and our operating
results will be adversely affected.

We  anticipate  that in the future,  as part of our  business  strategy,  we may
continue to make strategic acquisitions of complementary companies,  products or
technologies. In the event of any further future acquisitions, we could:

     -    issue  stock that would  dilute our current  stockholders'  percentage
          ownership;
     -    incur debt;
     -    assume liabilities; or
     -    incur expenses  related to in-process  research and  development,  and
          amortization of intangible assets.

Any future acquisitions also could involve numerous risks, including:

     -    problems   associated   with   combining   the  acquired   operations,
          technologies or products;
     -    unanticipated costs or liabilities;
     -    diversion of management's attention from our core business;
     -    adverse effects on existing business  relationships with suppliers and
          customers;
     -    risks  associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited
          prior experience; and
     -    potential  loss of key employees,  particularly  those of the acquired
          businesses.

We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully  integrate any businesses,
products,  technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future,  which
may harm our business.

COMPETITION  MAY INCREASE,  WHICH COULD REDUCE OUR SALES AND GROSS  MARGINS,  OR
CAUSE US TO LOSE MARKET SHARE.

Competition  in the optical  component  and module market in which we compete is
intense.  Many of our  competitors  are large public  companies that have longer
operating histories and significantly  greater financial,  technical,  marketing
and other  resources than we have. As a result,  these  competitors  are able to
devote greater  resources than we can to the  development,  promotion,  sale and
support of their  products.  In  addition,  the market  capitalization  and cash
reserves of several of our  competitors  are much  larger  than ours,  and, as a
result,  these  competitors  are much better  positioned  than we are to acquire
other companies in order to gain new  technologies or products that may displace
our product  lines.  Such  acquisitions  could give our  competitors a strategic
advantage.  For  example,  if our  competitors  acquire  any of our  significant
customers,  these customers may reduce the amount of products they purchase from
us.  Alternatively,  some of our  competitors  may spin-out new companies in the
optical   component  and  module  market.   These  companies  may  compete  more
aggressively than their former parent companies due to their greater  dependence
on  our  markets.   In  addition,   many  of  our  potential   competitors  have
significantly  more established sales and customer support  organizations,  much
greater  name  recognition,   more  extensive  customer  bases,  more  developed

                                       23
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


distribution  channels  and  broader  product  offerings  than  we  have.  These
companies can leverage their customer  bases and broader  product  offerings and
adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share.  Additional  competitors
may enter the market,  and we are likely to compete  with new  companies  in the
future.  We  expect to  encounter  potential  customers  that,  due to  existing
relationships  with our  competitors,  are committed to the products  offered by
these  competitors.  As a  result  of the  foregoing  factors,  we  expect  that
competitive  pressures may result in price reductions,  reduced margins and loss
of market share.

We compete  with  manufacturers  of  conventional  spherical  lens  products and
aspherical  lens  products,   producers  of  optical  quality  glass  and  other
developers of gradient lens technology as well as telecom product manufacturers.
In both the  optical  lens and  telecommunications  components  markets,  we are
competing against, among others, established international industry giants. Many
of these companies also are primary customers for optical and  telecommunication
components,  and therefore have significant control over certain markets for our
products.  We are also aware of other  companies  that are attempting to develop
radial  gradient lens  technology.  There may also be others of which we are not
aware that are attempting to develop axial gradient lens  technology  similar to
our technology.  There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will
not develop  technologies that are superior to or more  commercially  acceptable
than our existing and planned technologies and products.

OUR PRODUCTS MAY CONTAIN UNKNOWN DEFECTS.

Some of our products  are  designed to be deployed in large and complex  optical
networks. Because of the nature of these products, they can only be fully tested
for  reliability  when deployed in networks for long periods of time.  Our fiber
optic products may contain  undetected  defects when first  introduced or as new
versions are released,  and our  customers may discover  defects in our products
only  after  they have been  fully  deployed  and  operated  under  peak  stress
conditions.  In addition,  our products  often are combined  with  products from
other  vendors.  As a result,  should  problems  occur,  it may be  difficult to
identify  the source of the  problem.  If we are unable to fix  defects or other
problems, we could experience, among other things:

     -    loss of customers;
     -    damage to our brand reputation;
     -    failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance;
     -    diversion of development and engineering resources; and
     -    legal actions by our customers or third parties.

The  occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing  factors could cause our net
revenues to decline or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business.

WE FACE PRODUCT LIABILITY RISKS.

The sale of our  optical  products  will  involve the  inherent  risk of product
liability  claims by others.  We do not  currently  maintain  product  liability
insurance coverage. Product liability insurance is expensive, subject to various
coverage  exclusions  and may not be obtainable on terms  acceptable to us if we
decide to procure such insurance in the future.  Moreover,  the amount and scope
of any  coverage  may be  inadequate  to  protect us in the event that a product
liability claim is successfully asserted.

OUR PRODUCTS HAVE LONG AND VARIABLE SALES CYCLES.

The timing of our  revenue  is  difficult  to predict  because of the length and
variability of the sales and implementation  cycles for our products.  We do not
recognize  revenue  until  a  product  has  been  shipped  to  a  customer,  all
significant  vendor obligations have been performed and collection is considered
probable. Customers often view the purchase of our products as a significant and
strategic decision.  As a result,  customers typically expend significant effort
in  evaluating,  testing  and  qualifying  our  products  and our  manufacturing
process.  This customer evaluation and qualification  process frequently results
in a lengthy initial sales cycle (often one year or longer). While our customers
are evaluating our products and before they place an order with us, we may incur
substantial  sales and  marketing  and  research  and  development  expenses  to
customize our products to the customer's  needs. We may also expend  significant
management  efforts,  increase  manufacturing  capacity and order long lead-time
components or materials prior to receiving an order.  Even after this evaluation

                                       24
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


process,  a potential  customer may not purchase  our  products.  Because of the
evolving  nature of the optical  component and module market,  we cannot predict
the length of these sales and  development  cycles.  The recent  slowdown in the
U.S.  economy has  resulted in order  cancellations  and  extensions  of product
shipment  dates by our  customers.  These long sales  cycles,  coupled  with the
uncertain  affects of the slowdown in the U.S.  economy,  may cause our revenues
and operating  results to vary  significantly  and unexpectedly  from quarter to
quarter, which could continue to cause volatility in our stock price.

WE DEPEND ON KEY PERSONNEL TO MANAGE OUR BUSINESS EFFECTIVELY.

Our future success depends upon the continued services of our executive officers
and  other  key  engineering,   sales,  marketing,   manufacturing  and  support
personnel.  Our  inability  to retain or  attract  key  employees  could  have a
material  adverse  effect  on  our  business  and  results  of  operations.  Our
operations  depend, to a great extent,  upon the efforts of our senior officers.
We also depend upon our ability to attract  additional members to our management
and operations teams to support our expansion strategy. The loss of any of these
key employees  would adversely  affect our business.  We had  approximately  167
full-time  employees on June 30, 2002. Although we have reduced our workforce by
approximately  133 people  during the last fiscal year, we expect to continue to
hire  selectively  in the  manufacturing,  engineering,  sales and marketing and
administrative  functions to the extent consistent with our business levels. Our
ability to continue to attract and retain  highly  skilled  personnel  will be a
critical  factor in determining  whether we will be successful.  Competition for
highly  skilled  personnel is intense.  We may not be successful in  attracting,
assimilating or retaining  qualified  personnel to fulfill our current or future
needs,  which  could  adversely  impact  our  ability  to  develop  and sell our
products.

WE HAVE LIMITED PRODUCT  OFFERINGS,  SOME OF WHICH ARE CURRENTLY  EXPERIENCING A
DECLINE IN DEMAND.

We derive a  substantial  portion of our net revenues  from a limited  number of
products.  Specifically,  in the fiscal  year ended  June 30,  2002,  we derived
approximately  35%,  14.5%,  17.2%  and  33.3%  of our  net  revenues  from  our
isolators,  collimators, molded aspheric lenses and traditional optics products,
respectively. We expect that net revenues from a limited number of products will
continue to account for a substantial portion of our total net revenues.  Demand
for these and other  optical  component  and module  products  has declined as a
result of the recent slowdown in the U.S.  economy and we continue to experience
order cancellations and delays in product shipment dates by our customers. Aside
from the current  slowdown in the  telecommunications  industry,  continued  and
widespread  market acceptance of our products is critical to our future success.
We  cannot  assure  you that,  once the  telecommunication  industry  conditions
improve,  our current  products  will achieve  market  acceptance at the rate at
which we  expect,  or at all,  which  could  adversely  affect  our  results  of
operations.

WE MUST  ACCURATELY  TIME OUR  MANUFACTURING  CAPACITY  WITH THE  DEMAND FOR OUR
PRODUCTS.

We face a challenge in accurately  timing the installation of our  manufacturing
capacity  with the demand for our products.  Throughout  fiscal 2001 we expanded
our manufacturing capacity through the expansion of facilities and the hiring of
employees  and through the  acquisition  of Geltech.  At June 30, 2002, we had a
total of 167 full-time employees, down from 300 employees at June 30, 2001. As a
result of the recent, and sudden,  order cancellations and extensions of product
shipment dates by our  customers,  we are slowing the rate of production of some
of our  products.  We have  announced  that we intend to terminate 67 additional
employees by December 2002 as we consolidate our facilities. We also may curtail
efforts to install new  equipment  in our  facilities  until  market  conditions
improve. We believe this approach will allow us to quickly ramp up production if
unit  demand  for our  products  merits.  However,  if demand  for our  products
continues  to  decline,  we may have more  employees  and  facility  space  than
necessary to deliver our products,  which would adversely  impact our ability to
achieve  profitability,  and could require us to further  reduce the size of our
operations.

Despite our recent  announcement of plans to consolidate our business,  we still
face  challenges  as a result of our rapid  expansion  over the past few  fiscal
years.  The increase in employees as a result of our acquisitions and the growth
in   our    operations,    combined    with   the    challenges    of   managing
geographically-dispersed  operations, have placed, and will continue to place, a
significant  strain on our management  systems and resources.  We expect that we

                                       25
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


will  need to  continue  to  improve  our  financial  and  managerial  controls,
reporting  systems and procedures  and continue to expand,  train and manage our
work  force.  The  failure  to  effectively  manage  our  recent  growth  and to
accurately  time any future  growth with market  demand for our  products  could
adversely  impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products,  which could
reduce our revenues.

WE MUST EXPAND OUR SALES ORGANIZATION.

The sale of our products  requires long and involved efforts targeted at several
key departments within our prospective  customers'  organizations.  Sales of our
products  require the prolonged  efforts of executive  personnel and specialized
systems and  applications  engineers  working  together  with a small  number of
dedicated  salespersons.  Currently,  our sales organization is limited. We will
need to grow our sales force in order to increase market  awareness and sales of
our products.  Competition for these individuals is intense, and we might not be
able to hire the kind and number of sales personnel and  applications  engineers
we need. If we are unable to expand our sales operations,  we may not be able to
increase market awareness or sales of our products,  which would prevent us from
increasing our revenues.

WE MUST MAKE SALES IN A FRAGMENTED MARKET.

The markets  for  optical  lenses and  telecommunication  components  are highly
fragmented.  Consequently,  we will need to  identify  and  successfully  target
particular  market  segments in which we believe we will have the most  success.
These  efforts will  require a  substantial,  but unknown,  amount of effort and
resources.  The fragmented  nature of the optical products market may impede our
ability to achieve  commercial  acceptance  for our products.  In addition,  our
success  will  depend in great part on our  ability to develop  and  implement a
successful  marketing  and sales  program.  There can be no  assurance  that any
marketing and sales  efforts  undertaken by us will be successful or will result
in any significant product sales.

CURRENT AND PENDING LITIGATION MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OPERATING RESULTS.

On May 2, 2000,  the Company  commenced a class  action  lawsuit in the Chancery
Court of Delaware,  New Castle County (the "Court"). In this action, the Company
sought a declaratory  judgment with respect to the Company's right to redeem the
Class E Common  Stock on March 31,  2001 for $.0001 per share,  the right of the
holders  of Class E Common  Stock to vote at the  Annual  Meeting  to be held on
October 6, 2000, and for certification of the holders of Class E Common Stock as
a class and the named  defendants as its  representatives.  The final Settlement
Agreement of this  lawsuit  requires the Company to pay $0.40 per Class E share.
The  Settlement   Agreement  permits  Class  E  shareholders  to  elect  not  to
participate  in the  settlement  and thus  will not be  binding  on any  Class E
shareholders who so elect.  Approximately 12% of the former Class E shareholders
elected not to participate in the  settlement.  Based on the above,  the Company
estimates the total cost of the Settlement Agreement at $1.5 million, which will
be distributed during the first quarter of fiscal 2003.

On or about June 9,  2000,  a small  group of  holders  of Class E Common  Stock
commenced an action in a state court in Texas (the "Texas  Action").  Plaintiffs
in the Texas Action have made various  allegations  regarding the  circumstances
surrounding the issuance of the Class E Common Stock and seek damages based upon
those  allegations.  Management  believes the  allegations  underlying the Texas
litigation are without merit,  however,  we are unable to predict the outcome of
this litigation at this time.

The Company may from time to time become  involved in other  lawsuits  and legal
proceedings.  Litigation  is subject to inherent  uncertainties,  and an adverse
result in any such matters that may arise from time to time may adversely impact
our operating results or financial  condition.  Additionally,  any litigation to
which  we are  subject  could  require  significant  involvement  of our  senior
management  and  may  divert  management's   attention  from  our  business  and
operations.

WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL SALES.

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002,  approximately  14% of our net revenues
were from sales to  international  customers.  Our  international  sales will be
limited if we cannot establish and/or maintain  relationships with international
distributors,  establish foreign  operations,  expand  international  sales, and

                                       26
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


develop  relationships with international service providers.  Additionally,  our
international sales may be adversely affected if international economies weaken.
We are subject to risks including the following:

     -    greater  difficulty  in  accounts  receivable  collection  and  longer
          collection periods;
     -    the impact of recessions in economies outside the United States;
     -    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements;
     -    sudden and unexpected  reductions in demand in particular countries in
          response to exchange rate fluctuations;
     -    certification requirements;
     -    reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries;
     -    potentially adverse tax consequences; and
     -    political and economic instability.

While we expect our  international  revenues to be denominated  predominantly in
U.S. dollars, in the future a portion of our international revenues and expenses
may be denominated in foreign currencies.  Accordingly,  we could experience the
risks of fluctuating currencies and the corresponding exchange rates.

OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE.

Broad market fluctuations or fluctuations in our operations may adversely affect
the market  price of our  Common  Stock.  The  market  for our  Common  Stock is
volatile. The trading price of our Common Stock has been and will continue to be
subject to:

     -    volatility  in the trading  markets  generally  and in our  particular
          market segment;
     -    limited trading of our common stock;
     -    significant  fluctuations  in  response  to  quarterly  variations  in
          operating results;
     -    announcements  regarding our business or the business of our customers
          or competitors;
     -    changes in prices of our or our competitors' products and services;
     -    changes in product mix;
     -    changes in revenue and revenue growth rates; and
     -    other events or factors.

Statements  or  changes  in  opinions,  ratings or  earnings  estimates  made by
brokerage firms or industry analysts relating to the markets in which we operate
or expect to operate  could have an  adverse  effect on the market  price of our
Common  Stock.  In  addition,  the  stock  market  as a  whole,  as  well as our
particular market segment,  have from time to time experienced extreme price and
volume  fluctuations  which have particularly  affected the market price for the
securities  of many  companies  and  which  often  have  been  unrelated  to the
operating performance of these companies.

DECLARATION OF DIVIDENDS TO SHAREHOLDERS IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE IS UNLIKELY.

Our  Board  has  never  declared  a  dividend  on our  Common  Stock.  We do not
anticipate paying dividends on the Common Stock in the foreseeable future. It is
anticipated  that  earnings,  if any, will be reinvested in the expansion of our
business.

POTENTIAL INFLUENCE OF EXISTING MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS.

If our  management  and  shareholders  act in  concert,  disposition  of matters
submitted to  shareholders  or the election of the entire Board of Directors may
be  hindered.  We  estimate  that  management  and  our  principal  shareholders
beneficially  owned  approximately XX% of the aggregate Common Stock outstanding
as of August 1, 2002.

SOME  PROVISIONS  IN OUR  CHARTER  DOCUMENTS  AND BYLAWS MAY HAVE  ANTI-TAKEOVER
EFFECTS.

Our Certificate of  Incorporation  and Bylaws contain some provisions that could
have the effect of  discouraging  a  prospective  acquirer  from making a tender
offer for our commons stock,  or which may otherwise  delay,  defer or prevent a
change in control.

                                       27
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


OUR WARRANTS AND OPTIONS MAY AFFECT OUR FUTURE FINANCING.

The existence of our  outstanding  options or warrants may adversely  affect the
terms on which we can obtain  additional  financing.  As of June 30,  2002 there
were outstanding:

     -    warrants issued in private placement and other  transactions  pursuant
          to which 299,300 shares of Common Stock are issuable; and
     -    outstanding  options to purchase an aggregate  of 4,518,412  shares of
          Common Stock.

In addition,  approximately  386,000  shares of Common Stock were reserved as of
June 30,  2002 for  issuance  pursuant  to future  grants  to be made  under the
Omnibus Incentive Plan and Directors Stock Incentive Plan.

For the life of such options and warrants, the holders will have the opportunity
to  profit  from a rise in the  price of the  underlying  common  stock,  with a
resulting  dilution  in the  interest  of other  holders  of common  stock  upon
exercise or conversion.  Further, the option and warrant holders can be expected
to  exercise  their  options  and  warrants  at a time  when  we  would,  in all
likelihood,  be able to obtain additional capital by an offering of our unissued
common stock on terms more  favorable to us than those  provided by such options
or warrants.

The  eligibility  of the  foregoing  shares  to be sold to the  public,  whether
pursuant to an effective registration  statement,  Rule 144 or an exemption from
the  registration  requirements may have a material adverse effect on the market
value and trading price of the Common Stock.

WE HAVE AGREED TO CERTAIN LIMITATIONS UPON POTENTIAL LIABILITY OF OUR DIRECTORS.

Our Certificate of Incorporation  provides that directors will not be personally
liable for monetary  damages to LightPath  or its  shareholders  for a breach of
fiduciary  duty as a  director,  subject to limited  exceptions.  Although  such
limitation of liability does not affect the  availability of equitable  remedies
such as injunctive relief or rescission, the presence of these provisions in the
Certificate of  Incorporation  could prevent the recovery of monetary damages by
LightPath or its shareholders.

WE MUST MAINTAIN  COMPLIANCE WITH CERTAIN  CRITERIA IN ORDER TO MAINTAIN LISTING
OF OUR SHARES ON THE NASDAQ MARKET.

The Company's  Common Stock is currently  traded on the Nasdaq National  Market.
Failure  to meet the  applicable  quantitative  and/or  qualitative  maintenance
requirements  of Nasdaq could result in our  securities  being delisted from the
Nasdaq National Market. Our Common stock has recently traded below the $1.00 per
share  minimum  price  requirement,  which  would  subject  our Common  Stock to
delisting.  If delisted from the Nasdaq National  Market,  our securities may be
eligible for trading on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, the OTC Bulletin Board or on
other  over-the-counter  markets,  although  there can be no assurance  that our
securities will be eligible for trading on any alternative exchanges or markets.
As a consequence of such delisting,  an investor could find it more difficult to
dispose  of or to  obtain  accurate  quotations  as to the  market  value of our
securities. Among other consequences,  delisting from Nasdaq may cause a decline
in the stock price and difficulty in obtaining future financing.

RISK THAT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS MAY NOT COME TRUE.

This  report  contains   forward-looking   statements  that  involve  risks  and
uncertainties. We use words such as "believe", "expect," "anticipate," "plan" or
similar words to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements
are made  based upon our  belief as of the date that such  statements  are made.
These  forward-looking  statements are based largely on our current expectations
and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond
our  control.  You  should not place  undue  reliance  on these  forward-looking
statements,  which speak as of the date of this report. Our actual results could
differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for
many reasons,  including the risks faced by us described  above and elsewhere in
this report.

BUSINESS INTERRUPTIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire,  earthquake,  power loss,
telecommunications failure and other events beyond our control. We do not have a
detailed  disaster  recovery  plan.  We carry only a limited  amount of business

                                       28
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


interruption insurance, which may not sufficiently compensate us for losses that
may  occur.  Our  facilities  may  be  subject  to  electrical  blackouts  as  a
consequence  of a shortage of available  electrical  power.  We currently do not
have backup generators or alternate sources of power in the event of a blackout.
If blackouts  interrupt  our power  supply,  we would be  temporarily  unable to
continue operations at our affected  facilities.  Any losses or damages incurred
by us as a result of blackouts or other business  interruptions could impair our
reputation,  harm our  ability to retain  existing  customers  and to obtain new
customers,  and could result in lost revenue,  any of which could  substantially
harm our business and results of operations.

WE MAY NEED  ADDITIONAL  FUTURE  FINANCING IN ORDER TO FUND OUR  OPERATIONS  AND
PLANS FOR GROWTH.

While the Company continues to take actions to reduce cash used from operations,
there can be no assurance that the Company will generate  sufficient revenues to
fund  its  future  operations  and  growth  strategies.  We may  need to  obtain
additional  financing in the future.  We do not have any commitments from others
to provide additional financing in the future and there can be no assurance that
any such additional financing will be available if needed or, if available, will
be on terms favorable to us. In the event such needed financing is not obtained,
our operations will be materially  adversely  affected and we could be forced to
cease or substantially reduce operations. Any additional equity financing may be
dilutive  to  shareholders,  and debt  financings,  if  available,  may  involve
restrictive covenants.

OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS UPON THE EFFORTS OF THIRD PARTIES.

Our strategy for the  research,  development  and  commercialization  of certain
products entails  entering into various  arrangements  with corporate  partners,
OEMs,  licensees and others in order to generate  product  sales,  license fees,
royalties and other funds adequate for product development.  We may also rely on
our collaborative  partners to conduct research efforts,  product testing and to
manufacture and market certain of our products. Although we believe that parties
to any such  arrangements  would  have an  economic  motivation  to  succeed  in
performing  their  contractual  responsibilities,   the  amount  and  timing  of
resources to be devoted to these activities may not be within our control. There
can also be no assurance  that we will be  successful in  establishing  any such
collaborative  arrangements  or  that,  if  established,  the  parties  to  such
arrangements will assist us in commercializing products. We have a non-exclusive
agreement with a catalog company to distribute certain of our products.  We have
formalized  relationships with eight foreign  distributors to create markets for
GRADIUM in their  respective  countries.  There can be no  assurance  that these
parties,  or any future partners,  will perform their obligations as expected or
that any revenue will be derived from such arrangements.

RISKS RELATED TO MANUFACTURING OUR PRODUCTS

IF WE DO NOT  ACCURATELY  PROJECT  DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS,  WE WILL HAVE EXCESS
MANUFACTURING CAPACITY OR INSUFFICIENT MANUFACTURING CAPACITY.

We currently  manufacture  substantially  all of our products in our  facilities
located in Albuquerque,  New Mexico,  Walnut,  California and Orlando,  Florida.
Based on the sudden change in U.S. economic conditions, we realized lower demand
for our  products in fiscal 2002 and we now expect  only modest  improvement  in
fiscal 2003. We intend to operate at lower production  output during fiscal 2003
while  retaining  flexibility  to meet demand if it should  increase in the near
future.  Although  we  eliminated  significant  amounts of excess  manufacturing
capacity in fiscal 2002, we expect that the production  slowdown may continue to
negatively impact our gross margins during fiscal 2003. If we fail to accurately
coordinate  our  production  capacity and output with demand for our products in
the future,  we may have excess  capacity or  insufficient  capacity,  either of
which may seriously harm our results of operations.

Furthermore,  we may experience delays,  disruptions or quality control problems
in our  manufacturing  operations,  and, as a result,  product  shipments to our
customers could be delayed beyond the revised  shipment  schedules  requested by
our customers, which would negatively impact our revenues,  competitive position
and reputation.  For example, we have, in the past,  experienced a disruption in
the  manufacture  of some of our  products  due to changes in our  manufacturing
processes,  which  resulted  in reduced  manufacturing  yields and delays in the
shipment of our products. If we experience similar disruptions in the future, it

                                       29
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


may  result in lower  yields or delays of our  product  shipments,  which  could
adversely affect our revenues, gross margins and results of operations.

OUR FAILURE TO ACCURATELY FORECAST MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS COULD CAUSE US TO INCUR
ADDITIONAL  COSTS,  HAVE EXCESS  INVENTORIES OR HAVE  INSUFFICIENT  MATERIALS TO
BUILD OUR PRODUCTS.

We use rolling  forecasts  based on anticipated  product orders to determine our
materials requirements. It is very important that we accurately predict both the
demand for our  products  and the lead times  required  to obtain the  necessary
materials.  Lead times for materials that we order vary significantly and depend
on  factors  such as  specific  supplier  requirements,  the size of the  order,
contract  terms and current  market demand for the materials at a given time. If
we overestimate our material requirements,  we may have excess inventory,  which
would increase our costs. If we underestimate our material requirements,  we may
have inadequate  inventory,  which could interrupt our  manufacturing  and delay
delivery  of our  products  to our  customers.  Any of these  occurrences  would
negatively  impact our results of  operations.  Recent order  cancellations  and
extension  of product  delivery  dates by our  customers  have created a risk of
material  obsolescence.   Additionally,   in  order  to  avoid  excess  material
inventories we may incur cancellation charges associated with modifying existing
purchase orders with our vendors.

IF WE DO NOT  ACHIEVE  ACCEPTABLE  MANUFACTURING  YIELDS OR  SUFFICIENT  PRODUCT
RELIABILITY, OUR ABILITY TO SHIP PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS COULD BE DELAYED.

The  manufacture of our products  involves  complex and precise  processes.  Our
manufacturing  costs for several  products  are  relatively  fixed,  and,  thus,
manufacturing  yields are critical to our results of operations.  Changes in our
manufacturing  processes  or those  of our  suppliers,  or the use of  defective
materials,  could  significantly  reduce our  manufacturing  yields and  product
reliability.  In addition,  we may experience  manufacturing  delays and reduced
manufacturing  yields upon introducing new products to our manufacturing  lines.
We may experience  lower than targeted  product yields in the future which could
adversely affect our operating results.

IF OUR CUSTOMERS DO NOT QUALIFY OUR  MANUFACTURING  LINES FOR VOLUME  SHIPMENTS,
OUR OPERATING RESULTS COULD SUFFER.

Generally, customers do not purchase our products, other than limited numbers of
evaluation units,  prior to qualification of the  manufacturing  line for volume
production.  Our existing manufacturing lines, as well as each new manufacturing
line,  must pass through  varying  levels of  qualification  with our customers.
Customers  may  require  that  we  be  registered  under  international  quality
standards,  such as ISO 9001.  This customer  qualification  process  determines
whether our  manufacturing  lines meet the customers'  quality,  performance and
reliability standards. If there are delays in qualification of our products, our
customers  may drop the product  from a long-term  supply  program,  which would
result in significant lost revenue opportunity over the term of that program.

WE DEPEND ON SINGLE OR LIMITED SOURCE SUPPLIERS FOR SOME OF THE KEY MATERIALS IN
OUR  PRODUCTS,   WHICH  MAKES  US  SUSCEPTIBLE  TO  SUPPLY  SHORTAGES  OR  PRICE
FLUCTUATIONS.

We currently  purchase  several key  materials  used in the  manufacture  of our
products from single or limited source suppliers. We may fail to obtain required
materials in a timely manner in the future,  or could experience  further delays
from  evaluating  and  testing  the  products  of  these  potential  alternative
suppliers.  The recent  softening of demand in the  telecommunications  industry
could adversely  impact the financial  condition of our suppliers,  many of whom
have limited financial resources. We have in the past, and may in the future, be
required  to provide  advance  payments  in order to secure key  materials  from
financially  limited  suppliers.  Financial or other difficulties faced by these
suppliers  could  limit  the   availability  of  key  components  or  materials.
Additionally,  financial  difficulties  could  impair  our  ability  to  recover
advances made to these suppliers. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any
of these  materials,  or the inability to obtain these  materials from alternate
sources  at  acceptable  prices and within a  reasonable  amount of time,  would
impair our ability to meet  scheduled  product  deliveries  to our customers and
could cause customers to cancel orders.

                                       30
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


RISKS RELATED TO OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY TECHNOLOGY.

We rely on a combination of patent,  copyright,  trademark and trade secret laws
and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual  property rights.  We
cannot assure that our patent  applications  will be approved,  that any patents
that we may issue will protect our  intellectual  property or that third parties
will not challenge any issued patents.  Other parties may independently  develop
similar or competing  technology or design around any patents that may be issued
to us.

WE MAY BECOME INVOLVED IN INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY DISPUTES AND LITIGATION.

We anticipate,  based on the size and  sophistication of our competitors and the
history  of  rapid  technological   advances  in  our  industry,   that  several
competitors may have patent  applications in progress in the United States or in
foreign countries that, if issued,  could relate to products similar to ours. If
such  patents  were to be issued,  the patent  holders or  licensees  may assert
infringement claims against us or claim that we have violated other intellectual
property rights. These claims and any resulting lawsuits,  if successful,  could
subject us to significant  liability for damages and invalidate our  proprietary
rights.  The lawsuits,  regardless of their merits,  could be time-consuming and
expensive  to  resolve  and would  divert  management  time and  attention.  Any
potential intellectual property litigation could also force us to do one or more
of the following, any of which could harm our business:

     -    stop  selling,  incorporating  or  using  our  products  that  use the
          disputed intellectual property;
     -    obtain  from  third  parties  a  license  to sell or use the  disputed
          technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or
          at all; or
     -    redesign our products that use the disputed intellectual property.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT AND ENFORCE OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS, WE MAY
BE UNABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY.

We regard  substantial  elements of our technology as proprietary and attempt to
protect them by relying on patent, trademark,  service mark, copyright and trade
secret  laws.  We  also  rely  on  confidentiality  procedures  and  contractual
provisions with our employees,  consultants and corporate partners. The steps we
take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate,  time consuming and
expensive.  Furthermore,  despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third
parties from  infringing upon or  misappropriating  our  intellectual  property,
which could harm our business.

It may be necessary to litigate to enforce our  patents,  copyrights,  and other
intellectual  property  rights,  to protect our trade secrets,  to determine the
validity of and scope of the  proprietary  rights of others or to defend against
claims of  infringement  or invalidity.  Such  litigation can be time consuming,
distracting  to management,  expensive and difficult to predict.  Our failure to
protect or enforce our intellectual property could have an adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, prospects and results of operation.

NECESSARY  LICENSES OF THIRD-PARTY  TECHNOLOGY MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE TO US OR MAY
BE VERY EXPENSIVE.

From time to time we may be required to license technology from third parties to
develop new products or product  enhancements.  We can provide no assurance that
third-party  licenses will be available to us on commercially  reasonable terms,
or at all. The inability to obtain any third-party  license  required to develop
new  products and product  enhancements  could  require us to obtain  substitute
technology of lower quality or performance  standards or at greater cost, either
of which could seriously harm our ability to manufacture and sell our products.

                                       31
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

     We lease our headquarters,  a manufacturing  facility, a development office
and an engineering office, in Albuquerque,  New Mexico. The leases are generally
five year leases with renewal  options  which  currently are scheduled to expire
from  November  2002  through  April 2005.  The leased  space  houses all of our
operations,  including research, product design and development,  production and
all administrative  operations.  The 13,300, 17,000, 7,000 and 3,500 square foot
facilities are located in a business and research park. We are obligated to make
monthly  rental  payments  of  approximately   $25,000.  Due  to  our  announced
consolidation of New Mexico facilities to Florida,  we will not renew two of the
leases for 16,800 square feet which expire in November 2002 or the 17,000 square
feet lease obligation which expires in March 2003. We will attempt to sublet the
remaining 7,000 square feet which expires in December 2003.

     We leased an 11,500  square  foot  facility  for  office and  research  and
development  in  Warren,  New  Jersey  which we closed in  fiscal  2002.  We are
obligated to make monthly  rental  payments of  approximately  $19,000 until May
2005.  As of  September  2002,  the  Company  assigned  this lease but we remain
currently  obligated to make monthly payments of approximately  $2,500 until May
2005.

     We lease a 10,200  square foot facility in Walnut,  California.  The leased
space houses all of the isolator operations, including office, manufacturing and
development  space.  We  are  obligated  to  make  monthly  rental  payments  of
approximately $7,000 until October 2003.

     During  fiscal 2002, we expanded our Florida  manufacturing  site to 41,000
square feet  facility  which will  contains a 9,000  square foot clean room.  In
addition,  the collimator  manufacturing  and development  group from New Mexico
will be  relocating  to this  facility  during the first quarter of fiscal 2003.
Lease  terms  on  the  new  facility  call  for  monthly   rental   payments  of
approximately  $45,000  until October 2008. We will continue to try and sublease
excess space to a third party until needed for expansion.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

On May 2, 2000,  the Company  commenced a class  action  lawsuit in the Chancery
Court of Delaware,  New Castle County.  The action seeks a declaratory  judgment
with respect to the Company's  right to redeem the Class E Common Stock on March
31, 2001 for $.0001 per share,  the right of the holders of Class E Common Stock
to  vote  at the  Annual  Meeting  to be  held  on  October  6,  2000,  and  for
certification  of the  holders of Class E Common  Stock as a class and the named
defendants as its  representatives.  The named  defendants are Donald E. Lawson,
former  President,  Chief Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  who
owns an aggregate of 25,000 shares of Class E Common Stock,  Louis G. Leeburg, a
Director of the Company, who owns an aggregate of 7,272 shares of Class E Common
Stock, and William  Leeburg,  who owns or controls an aggregate of 21,816 shares
of Class E Common Stock. The Company entered into a proposed  settlement of this
lawsuit  whereby  the  holders of Class E Common  Stock  could  elect to receive
either  $.40 for each  share of  Class E Common  Stock or a two year  option  to
purchase  one Class A Common  Stock for each 100 shares of Class E Common  Stock
they hold. On January 8, 2001, the Delaware Chancery Court held a hearing on the
proposed  settlement  and ruled on  February  2, 2001,  that  holders of Class E
Common  Stock must be  provided an  opportunity  to request  exclusion  from the
settlement  class.  In December  2001,  the Company  agreed to proceed  with the
settlement to include a provision  that each former E shareholder  has the right
to request  exclusion  from the  settlement  class.  By June 30, 2002, the final
settlement  arrangements  had been  mailed to former  holders  of Class E Common
Stock  pursuant to which they would  receive a  settlement  payment of $0.40 for
each  share.  Approximately  3.6  million  shares of Class E Common  Stock  will
participate in the settlement whereas approximately 0.5 million shares opted out
of the  settlement.  The Company  has  determined  that it is probable  that the
settlement offer will occur and an estimated  settlement  charge of $1.5 million
has been accrued as of June 30, 2002.

On or about June 9, 2000,  a small group of holders of Class E Common Stock (the
"Texas  Plaintiffs")  commenced  an action in a state court in Texas (the "Texas
Action").  The Texas  Plaintiffs  allege  that the actions of the  Company,  and

                                       32
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


certain named  individuals,  leading up to and  surrounding  the Company's  1995
proxy  statement  constitute  fraud,  negligent  misrepresentation,   fraudulent
inducement, breach of fiduciary duty and civil conspiracy. In general, the Texas
Plaintiffs allege  misrepresentations and omissions in connection with a request
from the Company that its shareholders consent to a recapitalization,  resulting
in a 5.5 to 1 reverse  stock split and the  issuance  of certain  Class E Common
Stock. The Texas Plaintiffs  further allege that, as a result of the defendants'
actions,  they were induced to consent to the  Company's  recapitalization.  The
Company  believes the  allegations  underlying the Texas Action have no basis in
fact and that this lawsuit is without  merit.  The Company has retained  counsel
and is vigorously  defending against these claims. The participants in the Texas
Action will be  provided  the  opportunity  to accept the  settlement  discussed
above. In addition,  the Company participated in a mediation proceeding relating
to the Texas  Action on October  23,  2001.  During  fiscal  2002,  the  Company
incurred and expensed legal fees associated  with these claims of  approximately
$0.7 million,  however,  an insurance claim for the aggregate amount incurred in
connection  with the Texas Action in excess of applicable  deductibles  has been
filed by the  Company.  During  the first  quarter  of fiscal  2002,  one of the
insurance  companies  responsible for the claim,  which had previously filed for
reorganization,  was declared insolvent.  The Company is working with regulatory
agencies to resolve and collect the monies due under this  policy,  although the
Company  currently  considers  any  potential  recovery  under  this  policy  as
speculative. Accordingly, no claim for recovery is recorded as of June 30, 2002.
On March 6, 2002, the Company commenced an action in a state court in New Mexico
for various  claims  surrounding  the now  insolvent  insurance  carrier and the
Company's former insurance broker.

The Company is involved in various legal actions arising in the normal course of
business.  After taking into  consideration  legal counsel's  evaluation of such
actions,  management  is of the  opinion  that  their  outcome  will  not have a
significant effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     None.

                                       33
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     Our Class A Common Stock was quoted on the Nasdaq  SmallCap  Market  system
under the symbol  "LPTHA"  continuously  from  February  22, 1996 until July 12,
2000,  when our Class A Common Stock moved to the Nasdaq  National Market System
under the symbol  "LPTH".  We estimate there were  approximately  300 holders of
record and approximately  19,000 beneficial  holders of the Class A Common Stock
on August 19,  2002.  We have not paid cash  dividends in the past and we do not
intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Declaration of dividends will
be at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

     The following table sets forth the range of high and low bid prices for the
Class A Common  Stock for the periods  indicated,  as  reported  by Nasdaq,  the
principal system on which such securities are quoted. The quotation  information
below  reflects  inter-dealer  prices,  without  retail  mark-up,  mark-down  or
commission, and may not represent actual transactions.

                                                   Class A
     Fiscal Year Ended                          Common  Stock
                                              High          Low
                                             ------        ------
     June 30, 2002
     -------------
     Quarter ended September 30, 2001        $ 8.39        $ 1.78
     Quarter ended December 31, 2001         $ 4.50        $ 1.92
     Quarter ended March 31, 2002            $ 3.98        $ 1.36
     Quarter ended June 30, 2002             $ 2.11        $ 0.83

     June 30, 2001
     -------------
     Quarter ended September 30, 2000        $57.94        $26.50
     Quarter ended December 31, 2000         $48.00        $10.56
     Quarter ended March 31, 2001            $27.44        $10.25
     Quarter ended June 30, 2001             $19.00        $ 6.65

     On July 28, 1999, we issued  $1,000,000  aggregate  principal  amount of 6%
Convertible  Debentures (the  "Debentures")  due July 2002 and 427,350  attached
Class I warrants.  The Debentures are immediately  convertible at any time prior
to maturity into shares of Class A common stock, at a conversion  price which is
equal  to the  lower of 80% of the five day  average  closing  bid  price of the
Company's  Class A common  stock at (i) the date of closing  ($1.76) or (ii) the
conversion  date. Each Class I warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share
of Class A common  stock at $2.20 per share at any time  through  July 2004.  In
addition,  the placement  agent  received  150,000 Class J warrants to purchases
shares  of the  Company's  Class A common  stock at $2.20  per share at any time
through July 2004. In addition,  the investors of the Debentures are entitled to
receive  additional  shares of Class A Common  Stock in the  event  the  Company
issues additional  shares of its Class A Common Stock or securities  convertible
into such class of  securities  at any time prior to July 28, 2001 under certain
circumstances.  The  Debentures  and  attached  Class I  Warrants  were sold for
aggregate  consideration  of $1 million  and  resulted  in net  proceeds  to the
Company  of  approximately  $893,000  after  deducting  the cash fee paid to the
placement agent as well as the Company's legal and other associated costs.

     On November 2, 1999, we completed a private  placement of 408 shares of its
Series  F  Preferred  Stock  (the  "Series  F  Stock").  The  Series  F Stock is
convertible  into shares of Class A common stock, at a conversion price which is
equal to the lower of $5.00 or 80% of the five day average  closing bid price of
the  Company's  Class A  common  stock at the  conversion  date.  Each  share of
Preferred  Stock is  convertible  into  Class A Common  Stock at the  option  of
holder, subject to certain volume limitations during the first 9 months. Holders
of Series F Stock also  received  Class K warrants to acquire a total of 489,600
shares  of Class A common  stock in  addition  to the  modification  of terms on
warrants outstanding from prior private placements.  The Class K Warrants may be
exercised  at any time prior to  expiration  on  November  2, 2002 at a price of
$5.00 per share.  Each of the  investors  in the  Series F Stock has  previously
invested in our Series A, B and/or C Preferred Stock. In order to induce them to
invest  in the  Series F  Stock,  in  November  1999 we  agreed  to  reduce  the

                                       34
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


applicable  exercise  prices and extend the applicable  expiration  dates of all
outstanding  warrants issued in connection with the sale of such Series A, B and
C Preferred  Stock.  The gross  proceeds  received for the private  placement of
Series  F Stock  was  $4,080,000,  less  placement  fees  and  related  expenses
resulting in net proceeds of  approximately  $3,900,000.  We also issued 125,000
Class L  warrants  to the  placement  agent,  with  terms  identical  to Class K
Warrants.

     On  November  5, 1999 Robert Ripp  entered  into an  agreement  to purchase
62,500  shares  of  LightPath  Class A  Common  Stock  for  $4.00  per  share in
connection with his election to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Mr.
Ripp also received  warrants to purchase up to 281,250  shares of Class A Common
Stock at $6.00 per share at any time through  November  10, 2009.  The resale of
these shares were registered on a Form S-3 that became  effective on January 18,
2000.

     All of the  Preferred  Stock,  Class C, Class D, Class E, Class F, Class G,
Class H, Class I, Class J, Class K and Class L Warrants,  and the Class A Common
Stock and warrants issued to Robert Ripp, were issued to accredited investors in
private  placements  pursuant to Rule 506 of Regulation D promulgated  under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

     On January 11, 2000, we called all of our outstanding  Class A Warrants for
redemption  on  February  10, 2000 at the  redemption  price of $.05 per Class A
Warrant.  Each Class A Warrant was exercisable at a price of $6.50 for one share
of  Class A  Common  Stock  and one  Class  B  Warrant.  As of  March  31,  2000
substantially   all  of  the  outstanding  2.7  million  Class  A  Warrants  and
approximately  2 million  Class B Warrants  were  exercised  for net proceeds of
approximately  $33  million.  On May 15,  2000 we called all of our  outstanding
Class B warrants for redemption on June 13, 2000 at the redemption price of $.05
per Class B Warrant.  Each Class B Warrant was  exercisable  at a price of $8.75
for one share of Class A Common Stock. As of June 30, 2000  substantially all of
the  outstanding  Class B Warrants were  exercised  resulting in the issuance of
approximately  2.8 million  shares of Class A Common  Stock and net  proceeds of
approximately $23.5 million were received.

     On  February  25,  1998,  our  Board  of  Directors   declared  a  dividend
distribution  of a  right  to  purchase  (a  "Right")  one  share  of  Series  D
Participating  Preferred  Stock  for  each  outstanding  share of Class A Common
Stock, $0.01 par value, of LightPath.  The dividend became payable on the record
date May 1, 1998, to  stockholders of record as of the close of business on that
date.  Each  Right  entitles  the  registered  holder  to  purchase  from us one
one-hundredth  of a share of Series D Participating  Preferred  Stock,  $.01 par
value,  of  LightPath,  at a price of $35.00  per share,  subject to  adjustment
following the occurrence of certain  events.  The  description  and terms of the
Rights  are set forth in a Rights  Agreement,  dated as of May 1,  1998  between
LightPath and  Continental  Stock Transfer & Trust  Company,  as Rights Agent. A
copy of the Rights Agreement, including the Certificate of Designation, the form
of Rights  Certificate and the Summary of Rights to Purchase  Preferred Stock to
be provided  to  stockholders  of  LightPath,  was  attached as Exhibit 1 to our
Registration Statement filed on Form 8-A, dated April 28, 1998.

                                       35
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

                 SELECTED HISTORICAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

     LightPath  is providing  the  following  information  to assist you in your
financial  analysis  of  the  Company.   The  table  below  represents  selected
historical  consolidated  statement  of  operations  and  balance  sheet data of
LightPath Technologies,  Inc. and subsidiaries.  The selected financial data set
forth below for the years ended June 30, 1998 through 2002 are derived from, and
are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated  financial statements of
LightPath Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries.

     This information is only a summary.  You should read it in conjunction with
LightPath's  historical  consolidated financial statements and related notes and
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations," which are included elsewhere herein.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
In 000's except per share data                                  Fiscal Year ended June 30
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 2002         2001         2000         1999         1998
                                              ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------    ---------
<S>                                           <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Total Revenues                                $  12,507    $  26,143    $   2,266    $   1,086    $     758
Cost of Sales                                    15,157       15,284        1,310          409          290
Operating Loss                                  (51,582)     (63,126)     (16,198)      (2,857)      (3,553)
Net loss applicable to common
shareholders                                  $ (50,745)   $ (60,853)   $ (17,842)   $  (3,817)   $  (6,030)
                                              =========    =========    =========    =========    =========

Basic & Diluted Net Loss per share            $   (2.56)   $   (3.19)   $   (1.86)   $   (0.89)   $   (2.00)
                                              =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
Number of shares used in per share
calculations                                     19,807       19,064        9,587        4,271        3,011
                                              =========    =========    =========    =========    =========
As of June 30,
Total Assets                                  $  36,977    $  84,290    $ 100,713    $   3,136    $   6,308
Working Capital                                  14,138       35,375       59,129        1,001        4,561
Redeemable Preferred Stock                           --        1,417        1,601        2,399        5,452
Redeemable Preferred Stock and
Stockholders' Equity                          $  32,442    $  78,024    $  98,298    $   2,708    $   4,895
</TABLE>

Notes: LightPath has not declared any dividends during the periods presented. No
       dividend payments are expected in the foreseeable future.

     The Company's operating loss during fiscal 2002 includes the following:

     *    Asset  impairment  charges  of $1.5  million,  recorded  in the second
          quarter, due to adjustments to the carrying value of a customer supply
          agreement, associated with the acquisition of Horizon Photonics Inc.
          in April 2000;
     *    Asset  impairment  charges  of $4.9  million,  recorded  in the second
          quarter,   due  to  adjustments  to  the  carrying  value  of  certain
          intangible assets,  associated with the acquisition of Geltech Inc. in
          September 2000;
     *    Asset  impairment  charges  of $0.6  million,  recorded  in the second
          quarter,  related to the write down of  certain  excess  manufacturing
          equipment held for disposal;
     *    Asset  impairment  charges  of $3.2  million,  recorded  in the fourth
          quarter,  due  to  certain   manufacturing  and  other  equipment  and
          leasehold  improvements  held  for  disposal  in  connection  with the
          Company's  plan to relocate  manufacturing  operations  and  corporate
          headquarters to Florida during fiscal 2003;
     *    A write down in the carrying  value of our  investment in LightChip of
          $6.3 million,  recorded in the fourth quarter, due to a decline in the
          per  share  price of a  subsequent  third  party  round  of  financing
          completed in May 2002;
     *    A  restructuring  charge  of  $1.1  million,  recorded  in the  fourth
          quarter,   related  to  severance  charges  for  involuntary  employee
          terminations and certain lease related costs in connection with the

                                       36
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

          Company's  plan to relocate  manufacturing  operations  and  corporate
          headquarters to Florida during fiscal 2003; and

     *    Stock-based compensation charges of $4.8 million.

     The Company's operating loss during fiscal 2001 includes the following:

     *    Asset  impairment  charges of $13.4  million,  recorded  in the fourth
          quarter, due to adjustments to the carrying value of a customer supply
          agreement and related  goodwill,  associated  with the  acquisition of
          Horizon Photonics Inc. in April 2000;
     *    A $9.1 million charge,  recorded in the first quarter,  related to the
          acquired in process  research and  development in connection  with the
          acquisition of Geltech, Inc. in September 2000;
     *    An asset  impairment  charge of $0.4  million,  recorded in the second
          quarter,  due to plans to  dispose  of  certain  excess  manufacturing
          equipment no longer utilized; and
     *    Stock-based compensation charges of $11.1 million.

     The Company's operating loss during fiscal 2000 includes the following:

     *    A $4.2 million charge, recorded in the fourth quarter,  related to the
          acquired in process  research and  development  recorded in connection
          with the acquisition of Horizon Photonics, Inc.; and
     *    Stock-based compensation charges of $3.1 million.

During fiscal 2000, the Company called all of its  outstanding  Class A warrants
and Class B warrants for redemption.  As of June 30, 2000,  substantially all of
the warrants  were  exercised  resulting in cash proceeds of  approximately  $56
million and the issuance of  approximately  7.5 million shares of Class A common
stock.

                                       37
<PAGE>
ITEM 6. MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

THE PRIVATE SECURITIES  LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 PROVIDES A SAFE HARBOR FOR
FORWARD LOOKING  STATEMENTS MADE BY OR ON BEHALF OF THE COMPANY.  ALL STATEMENTS
IN THIS "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS" AND ELSEWHERE IN THIS REPORT, OTHER THAN STATEMENTS OF HISTORICAL
FACTS, WHICH ADDRESS ACTIVITIES, EVENTS OR DEVELOPMENTS THAT THE COMPANY EXPECTS
OR ANTICIPATES WILL OR MAY OCCUR IN THE FUTURE,  INCLUDING SUCH THINGS AS FUTURE
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES,  GROWTH, PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT, SALES, BUSINESS STRATEGY AND
OTHER SIMILAR  MATTERS ARE  FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS.  THESE  FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS  ARE  BASED  LARGELY  ON  THE  COMPANY'S  CURRENT   EXPECTATIONS  AND
ASSUMPTIONS  AND ARE  SUBJECT  TO A NUMBER OF RISKS AND  UNCERTAINTIES,  MANY OF
WHICH ARE BEYOND THE COMPANY'S  CONTROL.  ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY
FROM THE FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS SET FORTH HEREIN AS A RESULT OF A NUMBER OF
FACTORS,   INCLUDING,   BUT  NOT  LIMITED  TO,  THE  COMPANY'S  EARLY  STAGE  OF
DEVELOPMENT,  THE NEED FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING,  INTENSE COMPETITION IN VARIOUS
ASPECTS OF ITS BUSINESS AND OTHER RISKS  DESCRIBED IN THE  COMPANY'S  REPORTS ON
FILE WITH THE  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION.  IN LIGHT OF THESE RISKS AND
UNCERTAINTIES,  ALL OF THE FORWARD-LOOKING  STATEMENTS MADE HEREIN ARE QUALIFIED
BY THESE  CAUTIONARY  STATEMENTS  AND THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE  THAT THE ACTUAL
RESULTS OR DEVELOPMENTS ANTICIPATED BY THE COMPANY WILL BE REALIZED. THE COMPANY
UNDERTAKES  NO  OBLIGATION  TO  UPDATE  OR  REVISE  ANY OF THE  FORWARD  LOOKING
STATEMENTS CONTAINED HEREIN.

ACQUISITIONS

GELTECH, INC.

     On September 20, 2000,  LightPath acquired all of the outstanding shares of
Geltech, Inc. (Geltech), a manufacturer of precision molded aspheric optics used
in the active  telecommunication  components markets,  for an aggregate purchase
price of approximately $28.5 million (822,737 shares of LightPath Class A Common
Stock).  In the first quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company  recorded an immediate
non-recurring charge of $9.1 million related to the acquired in-process research
and  development  of Geltech.  The value  assigned to  in-process  research  and
development  ("IPR&D")  was  determined by the Company based on estimates of the
projected  discounted  cash flows from certain  development  projects  including
diffraction  gratings,  waveguides,  lens arrays and sub-assembly  technologies.
These IPR&D  programs were in various  stages of completion  ranging from 30% to
50% of completion,  with estimated  completion  dates through  December 2001 and
projected costs to complete of approximately  $2.25 million. As of June 30, 2001
these IPR&D  programs were not complete and a new  completion  date of June 2002
was established.  Geltech's IPR&D programs did not generate sales in fiscal 2001
which was consistent with the revenue projections.

     Geltech's  IPR&D  programs  did not  generate  material  sales  from  these
programs  during  the year  ended June 30,  2002  which is  consistent  with the
revenue  projections.  During the  second  quarter  of fiscal  2002 the  Company
decided to defer further development of the diffraction gratings and waveguides,
projects which were in process at the  acquisition of Geltech,  due primarily to
the  continued  decline  in the market for  telecommunications  components.  The
sub-assembly  technologies project concluded in the third quarter, however sales
during the quarter were not material. The development of the lens arrays project
was  concluded  during the fourth  quarter of fiscal  2002 which  resulted in an
immaterial  amount of sales during the fourth quarter.  Future sales will depend
on customer acceptance of this product line.

     For fiscal 2002, the  consolidated  research and  development  expenditures
budget  for  LightPath  was   approximately   $7.7   million,   which   included
approximately $1.7 million related to the ongoing development efforts which were
in process at the  acquisition of Geltech.  For the year ended June 30, 2002, we
estimate  approximately  $1.3 million of research and  development  expenditures
were incurred in connection with these efforts.

HORIZON PHOTONICS, INC.

     On April 14, 2000, LightPath acquired Horizon Photonics,  Inc. (Horizon), a
company engaged in the automated  production of passive  optical  components for
the  telecommunications  and data communications  markets,  for a total purchase
price of approximately $40.2 million ($1 million cash and 1.4 million shares of

                                       38
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

Class A Common  Stock).  In the  fourth  quarter  of fiscal  2000,  the  Company
recorded  an  immediate  non-recurring  charge of $4.2  million,  related to the
acquired in-process research and development of Horizon. The in-process research
and development ("IPR&D") related to micro-collimator products as well as active
alignment  and  isolator   injection   molding   technologies  that  were  under
development  at the time of  acquisition.  These IPR&D  programs were in various
stages of completion  ranging from 50% to 60%, with estimated  completion  dates
through June 2001 and estimated  costs to complete the projects of $1.1 million.
As of June 30,  2001  these  IPR&D  programs  were not  completed  and a revised
completion date of June 2002 was  established.  Horizon's IPR&D programs did not
generate sales in fiscal 2001 which was consistent with the revenue projections.

     Horizon's  IPR&D programs  generated  sales of  approximately  $2.4 million
during the year ended  June 30,  2002.  The  micro-collimator  program  has been
transferred to the Albuquerque development group. The isolator injection molding
technologies  was  completed in late  December  2001 and accounts for all of the
IPR&D generated  sales.  The active  alignment  program was completed during the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2002.

     For fiscal 2002, the  consolidated  research and  development  expenditures
budget  for  LightPath  was   approximately   $7.7   million,   which   included
approximately $1.6 million related to the ongoing development efforts which were
in process at the  acquisition of Horizon.  For the year ended June 30, 2002, we
estimate  approximately  $1.6 million of research and  development  expenditures
were incurred in connection with these efforts.

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2002 COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2001

CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS

     Our consolidated revenues totaled $12.5 million for fiscal 2002, a decrease
of approximately  $13.6 million or 52% compared to revenues for fiscal 2001. The
decrease was primarily  attributable  to a decrease in telecom  product sales of
$12.7 million or 60%, and a $0.9 million or 18% decrease in  traditional  optics
sales.  Sales  generated from the acquired  Geltech  business  (September  2000)
accounted  for $5.1  million  or 41% of the  total  revenue  in  fiscal  2002 as
compared to $7.8 million or 30% of total  revenue for the  comparable  period of
fiscal 2001.

     In fiscal 2002,  consolidated  cost of sales was 121% of product sales,  an
increase from the comparable period last year in which the Company reported cost
of sales of 58.5%.  During  fiscal  2002,  the Company  recorded a write down of
inventory of approximately $3 million.  Excluding inventory write downs, cost of
sales  during the year would have been  approximately  97%, an increase of 38.5%
from the comparable period of fiscal 2001 (see discussion below).  Substantially
all of the increase was due to the reduction in sales for telecom products,  and
the  underutilization  of  manufacturing  facilities and staff. To counter these
cost  overages,  we reduced the  manufacturing  staff,  eliminated  unprofitable
traditional  optic products,  and closed our Auburn,  California  facility.  The
changes implemented in fiscal 2002 resulted in a total decrease in manufacturing
personnel of 45%.  During the fourth  quarter we announced a plan to consolidate
all of our lens manufacturing from Albuquerque to Orlando,  Florida by September
30, 2002.  The announced  consolidation  will further  reduce our  manufacturing
staff by approximately 50 persons or 30% of total employees at June 30, 2002. In
addition, the Company recorded asset impairment charges of $3.2 million to write
down the carrying  value to  estimated  fair value less costs to sell of certain
manufacturing  and other equipment and leasehold  improvements held for disposal
in connection with the Company's plan to relocate  manufacturing  operations and
corporate  headquarters  to Florida during fiscal  2003.It is  anticipated  that
these  measures will improve our cost of sales in future  quarters as we work to
balance our  manufacturing  capabilities  and product lines.  However,  economic
conditions  may result in pricing  pressure in fiscal  2003 which  could  reduce
margins.

     During fiscal 2002,  total inventory  decreased  modestly from prior levels
before  consideration  of the inventory write downs recorded during fiscal 2002.
Raw materials  continue to make up the majority of our inventory at $1.7 million
or 69% of total inventory at June 30, 2002. We have approximately $1.4 million

                                       39
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

of raw materials on hand  specifically  used in the production of isolators that
have long lead  times and the  Company  has  elected to  maintain  a  sufficient
quantity of these materials.

     Throughout fiscal 2002, the Company noted several factors that caused us to
re-evaluate  the carrying value of inventory  resulting in charges to write down
inventory to net realizable  value,  or to write off inventory to be disposed of
given no alternative future use was identified.  Total inventory charges of $1.9
million and $1.1 million were  recorded  during  fiscal 2002 related to finished
goods/work in process and raw materials inventory,  respectively.  Specifically,
during the first and second  quarters,  inventory  charges of $1.3  million were
recorded as we continued to note declining quarterly sales from previous levels,
lack of growth in sales  orders and no sales in certain  product  areas where we
had purchased raw materials. The Company also received notification that certain
lenses  and raw  materials  did not pass  qualification  requirements  for their
particular  applications  during the second quarter.  During the fourth quarter,
our  manufacturing  group changed the  production  methodology  for  performance
improvements  rendering some products  obsolete that resulted in charges of $0.5
million.  During  the  fourth  quarter,  we also noted that the value of certain
finished  lens and raw  materials  inventory  had  diminished  due to changes in
market  conditions as some competitors  reduced prices for similar products to a
level  below  our cost  resulting  in  inventory  write  downs of $0.4  million.
Finally,  the Company noted  uncertainty  regarding the  realization  of certain
finished  products on hand due to cancelled  purchase  orders which  resulted in
write downs of $0.8 million during the fourth quarter.

     During fiscal 2002, selling,  general and administrative costs decreased by
$7.7  million from fiscal 2001 to $11.6  million,  which  includes  $2.2 million
accrued  for legal fees and the  proposed  litigation  settlement.  Fiscal  2001
results  include $2.3 million related to litigation  settlement  costs and legal
fees. The decreases were primarily in administration  and manufacturing  support
personnel costs.

     The  Company's  operating  loss during  fiscal 2002  includes the following
non-cash  charges:  asset  impairment  charges of $1.5 million,  recorded in the
second  quarter,  due to adjustments to the carrying value of a customer  supply
agreement,  associated with the  acquisition of Horizon  Photonics Inc. in April
2000; asset impairment charges of $4.9 million,  recorded in the second quarter,
due  to  adjustments  to  the  carrying  value  of  certain  intangible  assets,
associated  with the  acquisition  of Geltech  Inc.  in  September  2000;  asset
impairment charges of $0.6 million,  recorded in the second quarter,  related to
the write down of certain  excess  manufacturing  equipment  held for  disposal;
asset  impairment  charges of $3.2  million,  recorded  in the  fourth  quarter,
related to the write  down of  certain  manufacturing  and other  equipment  and
leasehold  improvements  held for disposal in connection with the Company's plan
to relocate  manufacturing  operations  and  corporate  headquarters  to Florida
during  fiscal  2003; a write down in the carrying  value of our  investment  in
LightChip of $6.3 million,  recorded in the fourth quarter, due to the per share
price of a third party round of financing completed in May 2002; a restructuring
charge of $1.1  million,  recorded in the fourth  quarter,  related to severance
charges for involuntary employee terminations and certain lease related costs in
connection  with the Company's  plan to relocate  manufacturing  operations  and
corporate   headquarters   to  Florida  during  fiscal  2003;  and   stock-based
compensation charges of $4.8 million. In addition,  the Company reversed the net
deferred tax liability of approximately  $3.3 million  established in connection
with the non-taxable  purchase of Geltech against the related  intangible assets
prior to the  impairment  charge  recorded in the second quarter as the carrying
value of the remaining Geltech  intangible assets was reduced in connection with
the impairment.

     Research and development  costs remained at  approximately  $7.1 million in
both  fiscal  2002 and 2001.  The  majority of  research  and  development  work
consisted of expenses  associated with  automation  development and research for
products  in  the  areas  of  telecommunication  switches,  isolators  and  next
generation  optical  subassemblies,  waveguides and lens arrays.  Throughout the
fiscal year, in an effort to control research and development costs, the Company
has reduced development staff levels,  deferred  additional  expenditures on the
switch  project and assigned  the New Jersey  development  facility  lease as of
September 2002.

                                       40
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

     The Company recorded a charge of  approximately  $1.1 million in the fourth
quarter in connection  with the Company's  announced  plans to  consolidate  and
relocate  its  corporate  headquarters  and  manufacturing  facilities  based in
Albuquerque,  New Mexico to Orlando,  Florida by December 31, 2002. We believe a
single site will bring a sharper  focus in  customer  support,  a  reduction  in
duplicate  process  engineering  resources and a higher capacity  utilization to
significantly  improve the cost competitiveness of our products.  Costs incurred
consist primarily of severance costs for involuntary  employee  terminations for
67 manufacturing and administrative employees and certain exit costs. As of June
30, 2002, none of the accrued costs were paid and management  expects to pay all
employee  severance  costs  prior to  December  31, 2002 and lease costs will be
substantially paid by June 30, 2003.

     Investment and other income included a non-recurring  gain of approximately
$390,000  related to the first quarter sale of certain assets located in Auburn,
CA, while interest earned on investments  decreased  approximately  $1.7 million
during  fiscal 2002 as a result of lower  interest  rates and a decrease in cash
balances.  Interest  and other  expenses  during  fiscal  2002 and 2001 were not
significant.

     Net loss of $50.7  million in fiscal 2002  includes  $29.2 million from the
non-cash charges  described above, $1.1 million related to the restructuring and
consolidation of facilities, $2.2 million related to litigation settlement costs
and $3 million for inventory write-offs,  which if excluded, would have resulted
in a net loss of $15.2  million.  This  compares  to  fiscal  2001 in which  the
Company reported a net loss of $60.8 million including $47.6 million in non-cash
charges and $2.9 million  related to litigation  settlement  costs and inventory
write-offs,  which  if  excluded,  would  have  resulted  in a net loss of $10.3
million.  The $4.9 million  increase in net loss in 2002  excluding the non-cash
and other  charges  is due  primarily  to the $13.6  million  decrease  in total
revenues,  offset by decreased cost of sales of $2.4 million while  decreases of
$7.7 million in operating costs primarily in selling, general and administrative
expense  were  offset by  increased  other  expenses of $1.4  million.  Net loss
applicable to common  shareholders  of $50.7 million for fiscal 2002 included an
additional  charge of $61,906  attributable  to the  premium on our  outstanding
preferred  stock.  Net loss per share of $2.56 in fiscal  2002  decreased  $0.63
compared to the fiscal 2001 net loss per share of $3.19.  Net loss applicable to
common   shareholders   for  fiscal  2001  of  $60.9  million  included  $89,549
attributable to the premium on the Company's outstanding preferred stock.

     At the end of the fourth quarter,  the Company announced the appointment of
Ken Brizel as President and CEO and his election to the Board of Directors.  Mr.
Brizel has spent 21 years in the communications and microelectronics industries,
most recently as Senior Vice  President  Strategy and Business  Development  for
Oplink Communications.

TELECOM SEGMENT

     For fiscal 2002,  telecom product sales decreased 60% to approximately $8.3
million from $21.1 million for fiscal 2001. The telecom  segment sales in fiscal
2002 include isolator sales of $4.4 million,  $1.8 million of collimator product
sales and $2.1 million of active telecom components sales.

     The telecom segment  incurred an operating loss of $11.7 million for fiscal
2002 as compared to a loss of $7.2 million for the  comparable  period last year
due primarily to decreased  sales,  reduced margins due to  underutilization  of
capacity,  inventory  write-offs and increased  research and  development  costs
associated with the switch project.

     The  decrease in telecom  sales for fiscal 2002  together  with the reduced
sales backlog  reflect the general market  condition for optical  components and
the broader  telecommunications  sector.  We continue to work  closely  with our
customers to manage their  inventory  levels as well as focus on next generation
products with them. We have focused on design wins for next  generation  systems
however  overall  spending  levels  continue to be restrained.  During the third
quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company announced five new products designed for use
in both long-haul and  metropolitan  area.  Each new product  utilizes  advanced

                                       41
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

manufacturing  technology to `build-in' much of the optical  alignment work that
was  formerly  performed  by the  customer.  They  also  underscore  LightPath's
strategic  directive of broadening our base of innovative optical components and
assemblies  by  combining   application   specific  engineering  with  automated
manufacturing.

     During the fourth  quarter we announced we would  consolidate  lens product
lines in Florida,  relocate  corporate  headquarters in Florida,  and reorganize
internally into three groups; the Optical Lens Group; the Laser Component Group;
and the  Optical  Integration  Group.  The  Optical  Lens Group will  manage the
collimator and aspheric lens product which continues to be a core capability for
LightPath  which will be  consolidated  in the  Orlando,  Florida  facility.  In
response to our  customers'  requirements  for a second site  capability and the
demand  opportunity for comprehensive  optical packing  solutions,  we intend to
increase our emphasis on the integrated platform segment of our business through
the Laser Component  Group. We have had great success with our isolator  product
line, and as our customers ask for more demanding optical performance,  we see a
great  opportunity to provide the entire solution from laser to fiber. The Laser
Component  Group will be investing a modest amount in capital  expenditures  and
increased  research  and  development,  in  support of  optical  generation  and
detection  applications,  such as  transmitters,  transceivers  and  pumps.  The
Optical  Integration  Group will allow  LightPath  to  augment  current  passive
optical  packages such as OASIS(TM) and  Vectra(TM)  collimator  arrays with new
innovative  passive optical  modules,  such as multiport and hybrid devices,  to
provide effective optical management solutions for our customers.

TRADITIONAL OPTICS SEGMENT

     During  fiscal  2002,  approximately  $4.2  million of  segment  sales were
comprised of $2.9 million in finished  lens products and $1.3 million from laser
optic lens sales, compared with segment sales of $5.1 million for the comparable
period  last  year.  During  the  first  quarter  of  fiscal  2002,  we  stopped
manufacturing  several  product  lines,  including data storage  lenses,  due to
unfavorable margins. In addition, due to the closure of the Auburn, CA facility,
we consolidated the  manufacturing of Geltech's  finished lens products into the
Orlando, FL facility.

     The traditional  optics segment incurred an operating loss of approximately
$4 million  for fiscal 2002 as compared  to  operating  income of  approximately
$73,000 for the  comparable  period last year.  The increased loss was primarily
due to reduced sales,  unfavorable margins and inventory  write-offs we incurred
during fiscal 2002.

     During the fourth  quarter we announced we would  consolidate  lens product
lines in Florida and reorganize internally.  The Optical Lens Group will include
optical  lens  business  and it will be  consolidated  in the  Orlando,  Florida
facility.  While we have recently signed a strategic agreement with Hikari Glass
to manufacture  GRADIUM(TM)  glass for LightPath and have engaged with suppliers
in the Far East to secure low cost lenses,  we intend to further reduce overhead
and  excess  capacity  in our lens  facilities.  The  single  site will  bring a
combined  customer support,  a reduction in duplicate process  engineering and a
higher  capacity  utilization  which  should  significantly   improve  the  cost
competitiveness  of our  products.  As  part of our  initiative,  we  intend  to
aggressively extend our offerings to non-telecom business segments.

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2001 COMPARED TO THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2000

CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS

     Our  consolidated  revenues  totaled  $26.1  million  for fiscal  2001,  an
increase of  approximately  $23.9 million or 1054% over fiscal 2000.  The growth
was primarily attributable from increases of $12.1 million (51%) in isolator and
other sales, $7.8 million (33%) in active telecom components and finished lenses
and $4 million (16%)  primarily in collimator  products.  Sales  generated  from
acquired businesses  accounted for $19.9 million or 83% of the increase in total
revenue.

                                       42
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

     During fiscal 2001, consolidated cost of sales was 58% of total revenues, a
decrease from fiscal 2000, when cost of sales was 62% of product sales (excludes
product  development  fees). The decrease was primarily due to increased margins
on isolator products.

     During fiscal 2001, selling,  general and administrative costs increased by
$13.3 million from fiscal 2000 to $19.3  million,  due to $1.6 million  incurred
for  litigation  settlement,   $0.7  million  for  legal  costs  incurred  in  E
shareholder  litigation,  $5.3  million  of  administrative  costs  incurred  by
acquired  companies,  Horizon and Geltech,  and $5.7  million from  increases in
LightPath personnel in administration, manufacturing overhead and support.

     We incurred  non-cash  charges  totaling  $47.6 million during fiscal 2001,
including $13.7 million for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related
to the  deferral  of  sales  by a  significant  customer  and  consolidation  of
traditional   optics   facilities,   $11.2   million  in  non-cash   stock-based
compensation charges,  $13.6 million in amortization of goodwill and intangibles
from  acquisitions,  and a  non-recurring  charge of $9.1 million for in-process
research and development from the acquisition of Geltech.

     Research and development costs increased by approximately $5.6 million from
fiscal 2000 to $7.1  million in fiscal  2001,  of which $2.1  million was due to
acquisitions.  The majority of development work consisted of expenses associated
with the Gen3 collimator assembly,  LP1600  opto-mechanical  switch, lens arrays
and the New Jersey  facility  where  development  work is on-going to expand the
Company's  products to the areas of switches,  interconnects and  cross-connects
for the  telecommunications  industry.  Our acquired  businesses  continue their
efforts in the area of  isolators  and next  generation  optical  subassemblies,
diffraction gratings, waveguides, lens arrays and sub-assembly technologies.

     Investment income increased  approximately  $1.4 million in fiscal 2001 due
to the increase in interest  earned on temporary  investments  as a result of an
increase in cash balances. Interest expense was not significant in 2001. In July
1999,  we  issued  $1  million  aggregate  principal  amount  of 6%  convertible
debentures and paid approximately  $10,000 of interest expense. We recognized an
interest  charge of  $381,869  in the first  quarter of fiscal year 2000 for the
beneficial  conversion feature associated with the Debentures and $43,926 of the
remaining debt discount was amortized  from the issuance date through  September
24, 1999 when all of the  Debentures  were  converted and related  warrants were
exercised resulting in the issuance of approximately one million shares of Class
A Common Stock.

Net loss of $60.8 million for fiscal 2001 was an increase of approximately $45.2
million from fiscal  2000.  Of this amount,  $47.6  million  related to non-cash
charges  described  above and $2.3  million  related to  one-time  charges for a
litigation  settlement and the legal costs  associated with E shareholder  suit.
Non-cash charges in 2000 were approximately $9.8 million. Excluding the non-cash
and one time charges from both years,  the remaining  $5.1 million  increase was
due  primarily  to increased  cost of sales and  operating  costs,  primarily in
selling,  general  and  administrative  expense and a $5.6  million  increase in
research and development  costs.  These increased costs were partially offset by
the $23.9 million increase in total revenues,  $1.4 million increase in interest
income and the $402,000  reduction of interest  expense  during fiscal 2001. Net
loss applicable to common shareholders of $60.9 million for fiscal 2001 included
an additional  charge of $89,549  attributable to the premium on our outstanding
preferred  stock.  Net loss per share of $(3.19) in fiscal 2001 increased  $1.33
compared to the fiscal 2000 net loss per share of $(1.86).  Net loss  applicable
to common  shareholders  of $17.8  million in fiscal 2000 included an additional
charge of $2.1 million for the imputed dividend and $137,281 attributable to the
premium on the Company's outstanding preferred stock.

TELECOM SEGMENT

During fiscal 2001, telecom product sales increased to approximately $21 million
from $1.5 million for fiscal 2000. The telecom segment results include  isolator
sales of $13 million,  $4.2 million of collimator product sales and $3.8 million
of aspheric  optics for active  telecom  product  sales.  Sales  generated  from
acquired  businesses  accounted  for $15.8  million  or 81% of the  increase  in
telecom revenue.

                                       43
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

Sales to Agere Systems,  Inc. ("Agere") (formerly the Microelectronics  division
of Lucent  Technologies  Inc.)  represented  55% of the telecom sales for fiscal
2001.

In August 2000, we introduced the LP1600  opto-mechanical switch which employs a
patented retro-reflecting mirror design in conjunction with our Gen3 collimator.
Due to the economic  environment we elected to suspend  expenses  related to the
launch of this product.  The telecom segment  incurred an operating loss of $7.2
million for fiscal 2001 as compared  to an  operating  loss of $7.5  million for
fiscal 2000.

Significant  events  which  impacted  our  telecom  segment  during  fiscal 2001
included:

     *    Recorded telecom sales of $21 million. The completion of the expansion
          of the Horizon automated  manufacturing facility which is dedicated to
          large   volume   isolator    production   and   the   development   of
          next-generation optical subassemblies contributed to the overall sales
          growth  as well as the  inclusion  of  sales  from  Geltech's  telecom
          products.  Horizon  released  a new line of  isolator  assemblies  for
          application  in the metro and  access  telecom  markets.  This line is
          based on a flexible  manufacturing  platform  which can address a wide
          range  of  customer   specifications   while   attracting  lower  cost
          applications;
     *    The  September 20, 2000  expansion of our telecom  products to include
          active  components  through the acquisition of privately held Geltech.
          We began  acquisition  talks with Geltech,  due to our interest in its
          precision molded aspheric optics used in the active  telecommunication
          components markets.  The acquisition  purchase price was $27.5 million
          which was paid  through  the  issuance  of  822,737  shares of Class A
          common stock plus approximately $1 million in acquisition costs for an
          aggregate purchase price of approximately $28.5 million;
     *    Changes to LightPath's management team included the addition of Dennis
          Yost as  LightPath's  Chief  Operating  Officer and  promotion  of Bob
          Cullen  to  Executive   Vice   President   in  charge  of   Technology
          Integration.  Mr.  Yost will focus on the  advancement  of our telecom
          lines,  specifically  collimators and arrays.  Mr. Cullen, the current
          President  of  Horizon,  expanded  his role to assist  in the  further
          automation of the Company including manufacturing, packaging, assembly
          and test methods; and
     *    The Company's additional investment in LightChip, Inc. of $7.2 million
          (August 2000 private placement significant investors included Berkeley
          International,   Morgenthaler  Ventures,  J.P.  Morgan  Capital,  AT&T
          Ventures and LightPath).

TRADITIONAL OPTICS SEGMENT

     During fiscal 2001, the majority of our traditional optics product sales of
approximately $5.1 million were from Geltech's lens sales and existing customers
for  laser  optic  lenses.   Traditional   optics  sales  in  fiscal  2000  were
approximately  $768,000.  The growth was  primarily  due to the  acquisition  of
Geltech's  traditional  optics business in September 2000 which accounted for $4
million of traditional  optics product sales in fiscal 2001.  Geltech's products
are used in data storage and by manufacturers of medical equipment. The majority
of  Geltech's  sales  are  due to  custom  quotations  as they  have  no  direct
distribution channels.  Revenues for fiscal 2000 included approximately $167,000
in license fees and  government  funded  subcontracts.  The  traditional  optics
segment reported  operating  income of approximately  $73,000 for fiscal 2001 as
compared to an operating loss of approximately $365,000 for fiscal year 2000.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The  preparation of the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements in conformity  with
generally  accepted  accounting   principles  requires  the  Company  to  select
appropriate  company  accounting  policies,  and to make judgments and estimates
affecting  the  application  of  those  accounting  policies.  In  applying  the
Company's  accounting  policies,  different  business  conditions  or the use of
different assumptions may result in materially different amounts reported in the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       44
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

In response to the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission's  ("SEC")  Release No.
33-8040,  "Cautionary  Advice  Regarding  Disclosure  About Critical  Accounting
Policies," the Company has identified  the most critical  accounting  principles
upon which the Company's financial status depends.  The critical principles were
determined by considering  accounting  policies that involve the most complex or
subjective  decisions or assessments.  The most critical  accounting  principles
identified relate to: (i) revenue recognition;  (ii) inventory valuation;  (iii)
long-lived assets; (iv) investment in LightChip and (v) intangible assets. These
critical  accounting  policies and the Company's  other  significant  accounting
policies  are  disclosed  in  Note 1 to  the  Company's  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.

REVENUE RECOGNITION. The Company recognizes revenue upon shipment of the product
provided that  persuasive  evidence of a final  agreement  exists,  delivery has
occurred,  the selling  price is fixed or  determinable  and  collectibility  is
reasonably  assured.

INVENTORY VALUATION. The Company regularly assesses the valuation of inventories
and writes down those  inventories  that are obsolete or in excess of forecasted
usage to estimated net realizable value. Estimates of realizable value are based
upon the  Company's  analyses  and  assumptions  including,  but not limited to,
forecasted  sales  levels  by  product,  expected  product  lifecycle,   product
development plans and future demand requirements.  If market conditions are less
favorable  than the Company's  forecast or actual demand from customers is lower
than the Company's  estimates,  the Company may be required to record additional
inventory  write-downs.  If demand is higher than expected, the Company may sell
inventories that have previously been written down.

LONG-LIVED  ASSETS.  The Company  evaluates  the  carrying  value of  long-lived
assets, including property and equipment,  whenever certain events or changes in
circumstances  indicate that the carrying  amount may not be  recoverable.  Such
events or circumstances  include,  but are not limited to, a prolonged  industry
downturn,  a significant  decline in the Company's  market value, or significant
reductions in projected  future cash flows. If facts and  circumstances  warrant
such a review,  under the current standard, a long-lived asset would be impaired
if future  undiscounted  cash flows,  without  consideration  of  interest,  are
insufficient to recover the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. Once deemed
impaired,  the long-lived asset is written down to its fair value which could be
considerably  less than the carrying amount or future  undiscounted  cash flows.
The  determination  of future  cash  flows  and,  if  required,  fair value of a
long-lived asset is by its nature, a highly subjective  judgment.  Fair value is
generally  determined by calculating  the  discounted  future cash flows using a
discount  rate  based  upon the  Company's  weighted  average  cost of  capital.
Significant  judgments  and  assumptions  are required in the forecast of future
operating  results used in the  preparation of the estimated  future cash flows,
including long-term forecasts of the amounts and timing of overall market growth
and the Company's percentage of that market,  groupings of assets, discount rate
and terminal  growth  rates.  Changes in these  estimates  could have a material
adverse effect on the assessment of property and  equipment,  thereby  requiring
the Company to write down the assets.

INVESTMENT IN LIGHTCHIP.  The Company  accounts for its  investment in LightChip
under the cost method of  accounting as prescribed by APB 18 given its ownership
percentage of voting shares is approximately  13% at June 30, 2002. In addition,
the Company regularly assesses the carrying value of its investment in LightChip
to determine  if a write down is  necessary.  The fair value of  privately  held
securities is highly  subjective  and involves  inherent  risk.  While there are
several valuation  techniques that could provide objective evidence of the value
of equity  securities,  the Company considers cash transactions with independent
third parties involving similar equity securities to be the strongest  objective
evidence of fair value. The carrying value of our investment at June 30, 2002 is
based on the most recent price per share of a cash  transaction  involving third
parties.  Should a future  round of  financing be completed at a per share price
less than the current carrying value, a write down would be required.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS. The Company generally obtains intangible assets in connection
with a purchase  (for example,  in a business  combination).  The  assignment of
value  to  individual   intangible  assets  generally  requires  the  use  of  a

                                       45
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

specialist,  such as an appraiser. The assumptions used in the appraisal process
are  forward-looking,   and  thus  subject  to  significant  judgment.   Because
individual  intangible assets may be: (i) expensed  immediately upon acquisition
(for example,  purchased  in-process  research and development  assets); or (ii)
amortized over their estimated useful life (for example,  acquired technology or
goodwill),  their  assigned  values could have a material  affect on current and
future period results of operations.  Further,  intangible assets are subject to
the same judgments when evaluating for impairment as other long-lived assets.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     We financed our initial operations through private placements of equity and
debt until  February  1996 when our initial  public  offering of units of common
stock and Class A and B Warrants  generated net proceeds of  approximately  $7.2
million. From June 1997 through November 1999, we completed four preferred stock
and one convertible  debt private  placements which generated total net proceeds
of  approximately  $12  million.  During  fiscal 2000 and 2001,  we received net
proceeds of  approximately  $67.6 million from the exercise of stock options and
warrants  issued at the initial public  offering or in connection  with previous
private placements.

     The optical  components  markets have experienced a severe downturn for the
last eighteen months,  resulting in a significant  decline in the demand for our
products as well as our  competitors.  We believe the Company has the  financial
resources, and will take the necessary actions, to manage through this downturn.
However,  a  prolonged  downturn  in  the  optical  components  markets  or  the
unsuccessful  move to sell our  optical  components  into  non-telecom  markets,
failure by the  Company  to  anticipate  or  respond  to  product  technological
changes, changes by our customers or suppliers, or any significant delays in the
introduction  of new  products,  could  have a  material  adverse  effect on the
Company's financial condition, operating results or cash flows.

     Cash used in operations for fiscal 2002 was approximately  $12.9 million, a
decrease of approximately $2.1 million from fiscal 2001.  Throughout fiscal 2002
we reduced our cash expenditures  through improved  manufacturing  efficiencies,
suspension of selected  development  projects and consolidation of equipment and
facilities. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we announced that we would
consolidate lens product lines in Florida,  close the New Mexico  facilities and
reorganize  internally  which will further  decrease our cash  requirements  for
fiscal 2003.  While the Company has no firm commitments for any future financing
at this time, we have a cash balance of approximately  $13.2 million at June 30,
2002, and we believe that our financial  resources will be sufficient to finance
the Company's operations and capital expenditures,  excluding acquisitions,  for
the next twelve months.

     In fiscal 2002 working capital  provided was $5.6 million  primarily due to
the write down of inventory  balances  and the accrual of certain  restructuring
and  settlement  costs which were not paid as of June 30,  2002.  In fiscal 2001
working  capital  requirements  were  $4.5  million  primarily  due to growth in
accounts receivable and inventory  balances.  We expect to continue to incur net
losses until such time, if ever, as we obtain broader market  acceptance for our
products at sale prices and volumes which  provide  adequate  gross  revenues to
offset our operating costs.

     During  fiscal  2002,  we expended  approximately  $2.8 million for capital
equipment and patent  protection,  offset by proceeds from the sale of assets of
approximately  $0.9 million.  In addition we invested an additional $1.5 million
in LightChip.  The majority of the capital  expenditures during fiscal 2002 were
related to the equipment used to enhance or expand our manufacturing facilities.
The Company's plan for fiscal 2003 estimates  approximately $1.6 million will be
expended to enhance or expand our  manufacturing  facilities  and to provide for
growth in passive  and  active  assemblies,  however,  we may spend more or less
depending on circumstances.

                                       46
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

     The table below presents the Company's  contractual  obligations as of June
30, 2002. The capital lease  obligations  appear on the Company's balance sheet.
The  operating  leases  relate  to real  estate  and are  commitments  which are
expensed as paid per the terms of the  related  contract,  except for  operating
lease obligations related to operations that will be discontinued in fiscal 2003
in connection with the Company's plan to relocate and consolidate  operations to
Orlando  Florida.  The lease  obligations  related to locations that will not be
continued  are included in the employee  severance and exit costs accrual on the
Company's balance sheet.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     (dollars in 000's)               Total           Stated Maturity                Comments
     ------------------               -----           ---------------                --------
<S>                                  <C>             <C>                      <C>
     Capital lease
     obligations                      $    10           Sept. 2002             Amortizes monthly


     Note payable                     $    78            Jul. 1999             Negotiating settlement with
                                                                               third party

     Operating leases                 $ 4,200            2003-2008             Real estate leases with
                                                                               monthly payments
     Employee severance and
     other exit costs                 $ 1,059            Apr. 2005             Severance costs to be paid by
                                                                               12/31/02.  Lease costs will be
                                                                               substantially paid by 6/30/03
     Legal settlement
     payments on Delaware                                      Not             Settlement costs to be paid by
     action                           $ 1,500           applicable             September 30, 2002
</TABLE>

     We currently  hold an investment  in LightChip  who has indicated  they may
require  additional  funding in the calendar  year 2003. If the Company does not
participate in future equity funding its ownership  percentage would be diluted.
In  addition,  if future  funding is at a per share price that is lower than the
cost of our previous investment in LightChip,  we will be required to write down
our investment to the current market value.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 2002,  the FASB  issued  Statement  No. 146,  ACCOUNTING  FOR COSTS
ASSOCIATED WITH EXIT OR DISPOSAL  ACTIVITIES  which the Company will be required
to adopt for any future costs associated with an exit or disposal activity.  The
Company does not believe the adoption of SFAS 146,  effective July 1, 2002, will
have a material effect on our results of operations or financial position.

     On October 3, 2001 the FASB issued  Statement No. 144,  "Accounting for the
Impairment  or  Disposal  of  Long-Lived   Assets,"  which  addresses  financial
accounting  and reporting for the  impairment or disposal of long-lived  assets.
SFAS 144  supercedes  SFAS 121,  "Accounting  for the  Impairment  of Long-Lived
Assets and for  Long-Lived  Assets to Be Disposed  Of," but retains  many of the
fundamental provisions of SFAS 121. SFAS 144 also supercedes APB Opinion No. 30,
"Reporting  the Results of  Operations,  Reporting  the Effects of Disposal of a
Segment of a Business,  and  Extraordinary,  Unusual and Infrequently  Occurring
Events and  Transactions."  SFAS 144  retains the  requirement  in Opinion 30 to
report  separately  discontinued  operations  and extends  that  reporting  to a
component of an entity that either has been disposed of or is classified as held
for sale.  SFAS 144 is effective for fiscal years  beginning  after December 15,
2001 and interim  periods  within those fiscal years.  LightPath does not expect
the adoption of SFAS 144,  effective July 1, 2002, to have a material  impact on
its financial statements or results of operations.

     In June 2001, the FASB issued Statement No. 141, BUSINESS COMBINATIONS, and
Statement No. 142, GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS.  Statement 141 requires
that the purchase  method of  accounting  be used for all business  combinations
initiated  after  June  30,  2001  as  well  as  all  purchase  method  business

                                       47
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

combinations  completed  after  June 30,  2001.  Statement  141  also  specifies
criteria  intangible  assets acquired in a purchase method business  combination
must meet to be recognized and reported apart from goodwill.  Statement 142 will
require that  goodwill and  intangible  assets with  indefinite  useful lives no
longer be amortized,  but instead be tested for  impairment at least annually in
accordance with the provisions of Statement 142. Statement 142 will also require
that  intangible  assets with  estimable  useful lives be  amortized  over their
respective  estimated useful lives to their estimated  residual values,  if any,
and reviewed for impairment in accordance with FAS Statement No. 121, ACCOUNTING
FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS AND FOR LONG-LIVED ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED
OF.

     The  Company is  required  to adopt the  provisions  of  Statement  141 and
Statement  142 on  July  1,  2002.  The  Company  had no  business  combinations
initiated subsequent to July 1, 2001.

     Upon  adoption of  Statement  142,  the Company is required to evaluate its
existing  intangible  assets and goodwill that were acquired in a prior purchase
business combinations,  and to make any necessary  reclassifications in order to
conform  with the new  criteria  in  Statement  141 for  recognition  apart from
goodwill.  Upon  adoption of  Statement  142,  the  Company  will be required to
reassess the useful lives and residual values of all intangible assets acquired,
and make any necessary  amortization  period adjustments by the end of the first
interim period after adoption. In addition, to the extent an intangible asset is
identified as having an indefinite  useful life, the Company will be required to
test the intangible  asset for  impairment in accordance  with the provisions of
Statement  142 within the first  interim  period.  Any  impairment  loss will be
measured as of the date of adoption and recognized as the cumulative effect of a
change in accounting principle in the first interim period.

     In  connection  with  Statement  142's  transitional   goodwill  impairment
evaluation,  the Statement  will require the Company to perform an assessment of
whether  there is an  indication  that  goodwill  is  impaired as of the date of
adoption.  To accomplish this, the Company must identify its reporting units and
determine the carrying  value of each reporting unit by assigning the assets and
liabilities,  including the existing  goodwill and intangible  assets,  to those
reporting units as of the date of adoption. The Company will then have up to six
months from the date of adoption to determine  the fair value of each  reporting
unit and compare it to the reporting  unit's  carrying  amount.  To the extent a
reporting  unit's carrying  amount exceeds its fair value, an indication  exists
that the reporting  unit's goodwill may be impaired and the Company must perform
the second step of the  transitional  impairment  test. In the second step,  the
Company must compare the implied fair value of the  reporting  unit's  goodwill,
determined  by allocating  the  reporting  unit's fair value to all of it assets
(recognized and  unrecognized) and liabilities in a manner similar to a purchase
price allocation in accordance with Statement 141, to its carrying amount,  both
of which  would be  measured  as of the date of  adoption.  This  second step is
required to be completed  as soon as possible,  but no later than the end of the
year of adoption.  Any  transitional  impairment  loss will be recognized as the
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the Company's statement
of operations.

     The  Company  has  unamortized   goodwill  of  approximately  $2.3  million
remaining at July 1, 2002, which will be subject to the transition provisions of
Statements  141 and 142.  Amortization  expense  related  to  goodwill  was $1.3
million, $2.95 million and $2.95 million for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001
and 2000, respectively. Amortization expense in fiscal 2003 would have been $1.3
million.  Because  of the  extensive  effort  needed  to  comply  with  adopting
Statements 141 and 142, it is not practicable to reasonably  estimate the impact
of adopting these Statements on the Company's  financial  statements at the date
of this  report,  including  whether  it  will  be  required  to  recognize  any
transitional  impairment  losses  as  the  cumulative  effect  of  a  change  in
accounting principle.

                                       48
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     LightPath's  liquid  investments are cash invested in money market accounts
or  overnight  repurchase  agreements.  Due to the  short-term  nature  of these
investments,  changes in market  interest rates of up to 10 percent either up or
down  would not  significantly  impact  the  Company's  results  of  operations.
Therefore,  LightPath  does not believe  that the market  risk  related to these
investments is significant.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     See index at F-1.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable.

                                       49
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

                                    PART III

ITEM 9. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, PROMOTERS AND CONTROL PERSONS; COMPLIANCE
        WITH SECTION 16(a) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT.

DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     The  Directors and Executive  Officers of LightPath,  and their  respective
ages and positions with us, are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
        Name                           Age           Position
        ----                           ---           --------
<S>                                   <C>           <C>
Robert Ripp (1)(3)                      61           Chairman

Kenneth Brizel                          44           Chief Executive Officer, President and Director

James L. Adler, Jr. (1)(2)              74           Director

Robert Bruggeworth (2)(3)               41           Director, beginning May 2001

Steve Brueck(2)                         57           Director, beginning July 2001

Louis Leeburg (2)(3)                    48           Director

Gary Silverman (1) (2)                  63           Director

Donald E. Lawson                        51           Resigned October 2001, Chief Executive Officer,
                                                     and Director

Dennis Yost                             39           Senior Vice President, Optical Lens Group

Mark Fitch                              39           Senior Vice President, Optical Integration Group

Donna Bogue                             44           Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

Robert Cullen                           50           Senior Vice President, Laser Component Group and
                                                     President, Horizon Photonics, Inc.

Jean-Luc Nogues                         48           Chief Technology Officer, and President, Geltech, Inc.
</TABLE>

- ----------
(1)  Member of the Compensation Committee.
(2)  Member of the Audit Committee.
(3)  Member of the Finance Committee.

DIRECTORS

     ROBERT RIPP has served as Chairman of  LightPath  since  November 11, 1999.
Mr. Ripp was Chairman and CEO of AMP Inc. from August 1998 until April 1999 when
AMP was sold to  TYCO,  International  Ltd.  Mr.  Ripp  held  various  executive
positions at AMP from 1994 to August  1999.  Mr. Ripp spent 29 years with IBM of
Armonk,  NY.  He  held  positions  in  all  aspects  of  operations  within  IBM
culminating  in the last  four  years as Vice  President  and  Treasurer  and he
retired  from IBM in 1993.  Mr.  Ripp  represents  LightPath  as a member of the
LightChip,  Inc. (an affiliate) board of directors. Mr. Ripp graduated from Iona
College in 1963 and in 1967 received his M.B.A.  from New York  University.  Mr.
Ripp is currently on the board of directors of Ace, Ltd.  which is listed on the
New York Stock Exchange.

     KENNETH  BRIZEL has served as a Director of  LightPath,  CEO and  President
since  July  2002.  Mr.  Brizel  has  spent 21 years in the  communications  and
microelectronics  industries.  From  October  2000 until July 2002 he was Senior
Vice President Strategy and Business Development for Oplink Communications. From
April 1997 to September 2000, Mr. Brizel was Director of Strategic Marketing for

                                       50
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

Optoeletronics  and Network  Communications  Integrated  Circutis  groups within
Lucent Microelectronics. Mr. Brizel's diverse experiences include assignments at
RCA/GE,  Lucent/Agere,  Mostek and Star Semiconductor before joining Oplink. His
responsibilities  spanned sales,  engineering,  marketing  strategy and business
development.  Mr. Brizel  received his Bachelor of Science and Master of Science
degrees in Electrical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy,
NY.

     JAMES L. ADLER,  JR. has served as a Director of  LightPath  since  October
1997.  Since  1989 he has been a partner  in the law firm of  Squire,  Sanders &
Dempsey  L.L.P.,  which has acted as general counsel to LightPath since February
1996.  Mr. Adler was formerly a partner of  Greenbaum,  Wolff & Ernst,  New York
City,  and of Storey & Ross,  Phoenix,  until the merger of the latter firm with
Squire, Sanders & Dempsey L.L.P. in 1989. Mr. Adler is a corporate,  securities,
aviation and international  lawyer. In 1998-1999,  Mr. Adler served as President
of the Arizona Business  Leadership  Association.  He is a member of the Arizona
District  Export  Council  and a Trustee  of the  Phoenix  Committee  on Foreign
Relations.  In March 1999, Mr. Adler was appointed by the government of Japan to
a five  year  term as  Honorary  Consul  General  of  Japan at  Phoenix.  He has
previously  served as Chairman of the  International  Law Section of the Arizona
State Bar Association  and, by  gubernatorial  appointments,  as a Member of the
Investment  Committee of the Arizona  State  Retirement  System and a Member and
Chairman of the Investment  Committee of the State  Compensation Fund. Mr. Adler
graduated from Carleton  College,  magna cum laude,  and from Yale Law School in
1952. He is a member of the Arizona and New York State Bars.

     DR. STEVE BRUECK has served as a Director of LightPath since July 2001. Dr.
Brueck is the Director of the Center for High  Technology  Materials  (CHTM) and
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Professor of Physics at the
University of New Mexico in Albuquerque, New Mexico which he joined in 1985. Dr.
Brueck  has led the  organization  to  become  an  established,  internationally
recognized center for optoelectronics  and  microelectronics  research.  He is a
1965  graduate  of  Columbia  University  with a Bachelor  of Science  degree in
Electrical  Engineering and a graduate of Massachusetts  Institute of Technology
where he received his Master of Science degree in Electrical Engineering in 1967
and Doctorate of Philosophy in Electrical  Engineering  in 1971. Dr. Brueck is a
fellow of both the OSA and the IEEE.

     ROBERT  BRUGGEWORTH  has served as a Director of LightPath  since May 2001.
Mr.  Bruggeworth  is currently  President  of RF Micro  Devices who he joined in
1999.  From 1983 until 1999 he held  various  positions  with Amp  Incorporated,
Harrisburg,  PA. When he left AMP he was a Divisional Vice  President,  Computer
and Consumer  Electronics,  Hong Kong.  Mr.  Bruggeworth  is a 1983  graduate of
Wilkes University with a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering.

     LOUIS  LEEBURG has served as a Director of  LightPath  since May 1996.  Mr.
Leeburg is a self-employed business consultant.  From December 1988 until August
1993 he was the Vice President,  Finance of The Fetzer Institute, Inc. From 1980
to 1988 he was in  financial  positions  with  different  organizations  with an
emphasis in investment  management.  Mr.  Leeburg was an audit manager for Price
Waterhouse  & Co.  until  1980.  Mr.  Leeburg  received a Bachelor of Science in
Accounting from Arizona State  University.  Mr. Leeburg is a member of Financial
Foundation  Officers  Group and the treasurer and trustee for the John E. Fetzer
Memorial Trust Fund and the John E. Fetzer ILM Trust Fund.

     GARY  SILVERMAN  has served as a Director of LightPath  since October 2001.
Mr. Silverman is currently the managing partner of GWS Partners,  established in
1995 to conduct  searches  for  senior-level  executives  and board of  director
candidates for a broad cross section of publicly-held corporations. From 1983 to
1995 he worked for Korn/Ferry  International as an executive  recruiter and held
the position of Managing  Director.  He spent fourteen years with Booz,  Allen &
Hamilton, and his last position was Vice President and Senior Client officer and
he was  responsible  for  generation of new business,  the  management of client
assignments  and the  development  of  professional  staff.  Mr.  Silverman is a
graduate  of  University  of  Illinois  with both a  Bachelors  and a Masters of
Science in Finance.

     DONALD E. LAWSON served as a Director of LightPath and CEO since April 1998
until October 2001. He also served as President October 1997 until October 2001.
He previously  held the position of Executive Vice President from May 1995 until
April  1998,  Chief  Operating  Officer  from June  1995  until  March  2001 and
Treasurer from September 1995 to July 2000. From 1991 to 1995, Mr. Lawson served
as Vice President,  Operations for Lukens Medical Corporation,  a medical device

                                       51
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

manufacturer.  From  1980 to 1990,  Mr.  Lawson  served in  various  capacities,
including Production Superintendent,  for Ethicon, Inc., a division of Johnson &
Johnson and a manufacturer  of medical  products.  Mr. Lawson  received a B.B.A.
degree in Finance from Texas A & M University.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     DENNIS YOST has been  Executive Vice  President,  Chief  Operating  Officer
since March 2001 and in June 2002 his title was changed to Senior Vice President
of the newly formed Optical Lens Group. From 1997 to 2001, Mr. Yost was Managing
Director - Process  Sequence  Integration  Group for Applied  Materials Corp., a
manufacturer  of  semiconductor  equipment.  From  1989 to 1997,  Mr.  Yost held
various positions with Texas  Instruments Corp. ending with Engineering  Manager
for Digital Light Products  Components  Group. Mr. Yost graduated from Texas A&M
University  with a  Bachelor  of Science  and  Master of  Science in  Electrical
Engineering. In 1995 he received his M.B.A. from Southern Methodist University.

     MARK A. FITCH has been Senior Vice  President  since March 1999 and in June
2002 he was named Senior Vice President of the newly formed Optical  Integration
Group. He joined LightPath in October 1997 as Vice President - Marketing & Sales
and has also had increasing  responsibilities in the  telecommunication  product
development  area.  From 1994 to 1997, Mr. Fitch was Vice President - Operations
for Geltech Inc., a specialty optics manufacturer.  From 1985 to 1994, Mr. Fitch
held various  technical  and  commercial  positions  with Corning  Incorporated,
ending with Chief Engineer in the optics division. Mr. Fitch graduated Summa Cum
Laude  from the State  University  of New York with a  Bachelor  of  Science  in
Physics.

     DONNA  BOGUE has been  Senior  Vice  President,  Chief  Financial  Officer,
Secretary/Treasurer  since July 2000. She  previously  held the position of Vice
President - Finance from November 1996 until June 2000. She joined  LightPath in
April 1996. Ms. Bogue was previously  Chief  Financial  Officer for  Hebenstreit
Communications and Vice President and Controller for Diagnostek, Inc. During her
career,  she served as controller  for a variety of companies and was an auditor
with Ernst & Young for five years.  Ms. Bogue is an honors  graduate of Northern
Arizona  University with a Bachelor of Science in Accountancy.  She obtained her
CPA license in 1981 and is a member of the AICPA.

     ROBERT  CULLEN  has  been  Chief  Executive  Officer,  President  and was a
director of Horizon  since its inception in July 1997 until  LightPath  acquired
Horizon in April 2000.  In June 2002 he was named  Senior Vice  President of the
newly formed Laser Component Group. Prior to co-founding Horizon, Mr. Cullen was
a laser packaging  engineer with Ortel Corporation  between 1993 and 1997, where
he was responsible for the design and manufacturing of several laser transmitter
models.  Prior to Ortel, Mr. Cullen served as an Engineering  Technologist  with
the prestigious DuPont Engineering Development Laboratory (EDL) between 1982 and
1993,  where he received  numerous  awards for various  projects.  In 1989,  Mr.
Cullen served on a field  assignment to a British  Telecom-DuPont  joint venture
(BT&D Technologies) in Ipswich,  England,  where he acted as project manager for
products such as semiconductor optical amplifiers,  tunable semiconductor lasers
and 1480 pump  lasers.  In 1990,  Mr.  Cullen  earned a patent  for a  miniature
optical  isolator and co-authored a paper on high gain optical  amplifiers.  Mr.
Cullen  pursued  a  Bachelors   Degree  in  Electrical   Engineering  at  Drexel
University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

     DR.  JEAN-LUC  NOGUES has been the  President  and CEO of Geltech since its
acquisition  by LightPath  Technologies  in September  2000. He was named CTO in
June 2002.  He has been involved with Geltech since its inception and had served
as COO, CTO, and Vice  President of R&D. Dr. Nogues has a proven track record of
leadership  in  the   development   and   commercialization   of  the  Company's
technologies  and products that led to several awards.  Many of the advancements
developed  by Geltech are in the fields of advanced  optical  components,  glass
micro-optics,  diffraction  optics and sol-gel  technology.  His background also
includes the  management of the University of Florida's  Sol-Gel  research group
that was the  incubation  phase of the creation of Geltech.  Prior to that,  Dr.
Nogues worked for six year on glass  development as an Engineering  Technologist
with the R & D department of the Atomic Energy Commission in France. During that
time he also  consulted  with  several  companies  in the  field of  optics  and
materials science.  Over the years he has produced more than 40 publications and
holds  several  patents  and  patent  applications  in the field of  optics  and
materials  science.  Dr.  Nogues has a Bachelor  of Science in  Mathematics  and

                                       52
<PAGE>
Mechanical  Engineering  and he received his Master  degree and PhD in Materials
Science and Engineering from the University of Montpellier, France.

SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE

     Section 16(a) of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 requires our officers
and  directors,  and persons who own more than 10% of a registered  class of our
equity  securities,  to file reports of ownership and changes in ownership  with
the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Officers,  directors and greater
than 10%  stockholders  are required by SEC regulation to furnish us with copies
of all Section  16(a) forms they file.  Based solely upon a review of the copies
of such forms furnished to us, or written  representations  that no Forms 5 were
required, we believe that during the year ended June 30, 2002, all Section 16(a)
filing requirements  applicable to its officers,  directors and greater than 10%
beneficial owners were complied with.

ITEM 10. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     The  information  required  under  this item will be set forth in our proxy
statement  to be filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 11. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     The  information  required  under  this item will be set forth in our proxy
statement  to be filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     The  information  required  under  this item will be set forth in our proxy
statement  to be filed  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                       53
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a)  Financial Statements - Index page F-1
         Independent Auditors' Report on Consolidated Financial Statements
         Consolidated Balance Sheets
         Consolidated Statements of Operations
         Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(b)  Exhibits

     Exhibit
     Number                         Description
     ------                         -----------
       3.1     Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, as amended          1

       3.2     Certificate of Designations filed November 10, 1995 with
               the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware                 1

       3.3     Bylaws of Registrant                                            1

       3.4     Certificate of Designation filed November 2, 1999 with
               the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware                 2

       9.1     Rights Agreement dated May 1, 1998                              3

      10.4     Directors Compensation Agreement with Amendment for Robert
               Ripp                                                            6

      10.6     Omnibus Incentive Plan                                          4

      10.7     Directors Stock Option Plan                                     5

      10.8     Amended Omnibus Incentive Plan                                  6

      10.9     Merger Agreement dated April 14, 2000 between Registrant
               and Horizon Photonics, Inc.                                     7

     10.10     Merger Agreement dated August 9, 2000 between Registrant
               and Geltech, Inc.                                               8

      23.1     Consent of KPMG LLP                                             *

      99.1     Certification                                                   *

1.   This exhibit was filed as an exhibit to Our Registration  Statement on Form
     SB-2 (File No: 33-80119) and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.
2.   This exhibit was filed as an exhibit to Our Registration  Statement on Form
     S-3 (File No: 333-94303) dated January 10, 2000 and is incorporated  herein
     by reference thereto.
3.   This exhibit was filed as an exhibit to Our Registration  Statement on Form
     8-A (File No: 000-27548) dated April 28, 1998 and is incorporated herein by
     reference thereto.
4.   This exhibit was filed as an exhibit to Our Registration  Statement on Form
     S-8 (File No: 333-23515 and 333-23511,  respectively)  dated March 18, 1997
     and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.
5.   This exhibit was filed as an exhibit to Our Registration  Statement on Form
     S-8 (File No: 333-50976) dated November 30, 2000 and is incorporated herein
     by reference thereto.
6.   This exhibit was filed as an exhibit to Our Registration  Statement on Form
     S-3 (File No: 333-37622) dated June 12, 2000 and is incorporated  herein by
     reference thereto.

                                       54
<PAGE>
             LightPath Technologies, Inc. - Form 10K, June 30, 2002


7.   This exhibit was filed as an exhibit to Our Registration  Statement on Form
     S-3 (File No: 333-47992) dated October 20, 2000 and is incorporated  herein
     by reference thereto.
*    Filed herewith.

d)   The following reports on Form 8-K were filed under the Securities  Exchange
     Act of 1934 during the quarter ended June 30, 2002:

     1.   Current  report on Form 8-K dated April 3, 2002,  announced the fiscal
          2002, third quarter conference call would be held on April 25, 2002.
     2.   Current  report on Form 8-K dated April 25,  2002,  included the third
          quarter of fiscal 2002 financial results.

                                       55
<PAGE>
                          LIGHTPATH TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Report of KPMG LLP, Independent Auditors ....................................F-2

Consolidated Financial Statements
Consolidated Balance Sheets..................................................F-3
Consolidated Statements of Operations........................................F-4
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity..............................F-5
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows........................................F-6
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...................................F-7

                                       F-1
<PAGE>
                    REPORT OF KPMG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors
LightPath Technologies, Inc.:

We have  audited  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets of  LightPath
Technologies,  Inc.,  and  subsidiaries  as of June 30,  2002 and 2001,  and the
related consolidated  statements of operations,  stockholders'  equity, and cash
flows for each of the years in the three year period ended June 30, 2002.  These
consolidated  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility is to express an opinion on these  consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the  United  States of  America.  Those  standards  require  that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management,  as well as evaluating  the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in  all  material   respects,   the  financial  position  of  LightPath
Technologies,  Inc.,  and  subsidiaries  as of June 30,  2002 and 2001,  and the
results  of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three year period ended June 30, 2002 in conformity with  accounting  principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.


                                        KPMG LLP


Albuquerque, New Mexico
August 2, 2002

                                       F-2
<PAGE>
                          LIGHTPATH TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             JUNE 30,         JUNE 30,
                                                                               2002             2001
                                                                           -------------    -------------
<S>                                                                        <C>              <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents                                                $  13,177,624    $  29,273,034
  Trade accounts receivable - less allowance of $278,255 and $120,947          1,560,198        2,579,483
  Inventories (NOTE 2)                                                         2,403,644        5,414,587
  Other receivables and advances to employees                                    761,065          442,116
  Prepaid expenses and other                                                     770,302          616,071
                                                                           -------------    -------------
Total current assets                                                          18,672,833       38,325,291

Property and equipment - net (NOTE 3)                                          6,664,374       12,046,891
Goodwill and intangible assets - net (NOTE 4)                                  8,054,179       25,683,341
Investment in LightChip, Inc. and other assets (NOTE 6)                        3,585,842        8,234,885
                                                                           -------------    -------------
Total assets                                                               $  36,977,228    $  84,290,408
                                                                           =============    =============

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable                                                         $   1,002,374    $   1,276,204
  Accrued liabilities (NOTE 15)                                                1,835,040          300,263
  Accrued payroll and benefits                                                   549,241        1,131,252
  Accrued severance and exit costs (NOTE 7)                                    1,059,680               --
  Capital lease obligations and note payable (NOTE 8)                             88,550          242,475
                                                                           -------------    -------------
Total current liabilities                                                      4,534,885        2,950,194

Deferred income taxes (NOTE 11)                                                       --        3,316,304

Commitments and contingencies (NOTE 15)

Redeemable convertible preferred stock (NOTE 9)
   $.01 par value; stated value of $10,000 per share; 5,000,000 shares
    authorized; none and 127 Series F shares issued and outstanding                   --        1,417,070

Stockholders' equity: (NOTES 10 AND 12)

   Common stock: Class A, $.01 par value, voting; 34,500,000 shares
     authorized; 20,677,071 and 19,371,167 shares issued and outstanding         206,771          193,712
   Additional paid-in capital                                                188,276,439      181,708,752
   Accumulated deficit                                                      (156,040,867)    (105,295,624)
                                                                           -------------    -------------
Total stockholders' equity                                                    32,442,343       76,606,840
                                                                           -------------    -------------
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                                 $  36,977,228    $  84,290,408
                                                                           =============    =============
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.

                                       F-3
<PAGE>
                          LIGHTPATH TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       YEAR ENDED JUNE 30
                                                          --------------------------------------------
                                                              2002            2001            2000
                                                          ------------    ------------    ------------
<S>                                                       <C>             <C>             <C>
REVENUES

   Telecom product and lens sales                         $ 11,990,609    $ 25,257,391    $  2,098,841

   Product development fees and other sales                    515,973         885,765         167,423
                                                          ------------    ------------    ------------
Total revenues                                              12,506,582      26,143,156       2,266,264

COSTS AND EXPENSES

   Cost of sales (exclusive of stock-based compensation
     of $27,824, $11,875 and none, for the years ended
     June 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively)            15,156,619      15,283,694       1,309,711

   Selling, general and administrative (exclusive of
     stock-based compensation of $ 4,768,130,
     $11,127,536 and $3,144,490, for the years ended
     June 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively)            11,568,531      19,291,630       5,942,029

   Research and development (exclusive of stock-based
     compensation of $13,766, $25,094 and none, for
     the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001 and 2000,
     respectively)                                           7,095,649       7,089,931       1,449,347

   Asset impairment (NOTES 3 AND 4)                         16,508,387      13,772,867              --

   Stock-based compensation                                  4,809,720      11,164,505       3,144,980

   Amortization of goodwill and intangibles                  7,889,741      13,566,807       2,418,119

   Employee severance and exit costs (NOTE 7)                1,059,680              --              --

   Acquired in process research and development                     --       9,100,000       4,200,000
                                                          ------------    ------------    ------------
Total costs and expenses                                    64,088,327      89,269,434      18,464,186
                                                          ------------    ------------    ------------
Operating loss                                             (51,581,745)    (63,126,278)    (16,197,922)

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE)

Investment income                                            1,102,259       2,436,438       1,062,952

Interest and other expense                                    (203,851)        (73,521)       (475,097)
                                                          ------------    ------------    ------------
Net loss                                                  $(50,683,337)   $(60,763,361)   $(15,610,067)

Imputed dividend and premium on preferred stock                (61,906)        (89,549)     (2,231,943)
                                                          ------------    ------------    ------------

Net loss applicable to common shareholders (NOTE 13)      $(50,745,243)   $(60,852,910)   $(17,842,010)
                                                          ============    ============    ============

Basic and diluted net loss per share                      $      (2.56)   $      (3.19)   $      (1.86)
                                                          ============    ============    ============
Number of shares used in per share calculation              19,807,383      19,064,141       9,586,817
                                                          ============    ============    ============
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.

                                       F-4
<PAGE>
                          LIGHTPATH TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             CLASS A
                                                           COMMON STOCK
                                                    -----------------------------    ADDITIONAL
                                                      NUMBER OF                        PAID-IN       ACCUMULATED
                                                       SHARES          AMOUNT          CAPITAL         DEFICIT           TOTAL
                                                    -------------   -------------   -------------   -------------    -------------
<S>                                                 <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>              <C>
Balances at June 30, 1999                               4,960,703   $      49,607   $  26,860,418   $ (26,600,704)   $     309,321
  Issuance of common stock                                 66,429             664         258,136              --          258,800
  Exercise of stock options and unit purchase
    options                                               682,521           6,825       3,214,108              --        3,220,933
  Exercise of warrants
     Debt                                                 577,350           5,774       1,264,396              --        1,270,170
     Equity                                             8,764,665          87,647      60,930,062              --       61,017,709
  Issuance of common stock upon conversion of 37
    shares Series A, 1 share Series B, 84 shares
    Series C and 255 shares Series F convertible
    preferred stock                                     1,066,970          10,670       3,923,831              --        3,934,501
  Issuance of common stock upon conversion of
    6% convertible debentures                             569,801           5,698       1,313,423              --        1,319,121
  Issuance of common stock and stock options
    to acquire Horizon Photonics, Inc.                  1,447,815          14,478      37,954,135              --       37,968,613
  Stock-based compensation                                     --              --       3,144,980              --        3,144,980
  Imputed dividend on Series F convertible
    preferred stock                                            --              --       2,094,662      (2,094,662)              --
  Premium on Series A , Series B, Series C and
    Series F convertible preferred stock                       --              --              --        (137,281)        (137,281)
  Net loss                                                     --              --              --     (15,610,067)     (15,610,067)
                                                    -------------   -------------   -------------   -------------    -------------
Balances at June 30, 2000                              18,136,254   $     181,363   $ 140,958,151   $ (44,442,714)   $  96,696,800
  Exercise of stock options                               306,255           3,063       1,501,562              --        1,504,625
  Exercise of warrants and unit purchase
    options                                                50,217             502          65,487              --           65,989
  Issuance of common stock upon conversion of
    26 shares Series F convertible preferred
    stock                                                  55,704             557         273,620              --          274,177
  Issuance of common stock and stock options
    to acquire Geltech, Inc.                              822,737           8,227      27,705,609              --       27,713,836
  Redemption E1, E2, E3 common stock                           --              --          39,818              --           39,818
  Stock-based compensation                                     --              --      11,164,505              --       11,164,505
  Premium on Series F convertible preferred stock              --              --              --         (89,549)         (89,549)
  Net loss                                                     --              --              --     (60,763,361)     (60,763,361)
                                                    -------------   -------------   -------------   -------------    -------------
Balances at June 30, 2001                              19,371,167   $     193,712   $ 181,708,752   $(105,295,624)   $  76,606,840
  Exercise of stock options                               107,500           1,075         290,975              --          292,050
  Issuance of common stock upon conversion of 127
    shares Series F convertible preferred stock         1,198,404          11,984       1,466,992              --        1,478,976
  Stock-based compensation                                     --              --       4,809,720              --        4,809,720
  Premium on Series F convertible preferred stock              --              --              --         (61,906)         (61,906)
  Net loss                                                     --              --              --     (50,683,337)     (50,683,337)
                                                    -------------   -------------   -------------   -------------    -------------
Balances at June 30, 2002                              20,677,071   $     206,771   $ 188,276,439   $(156,040,867)   $  32,442,343
                                                    =============   =============   =============   =============    =============
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.

                                       F-5
<PAGE>
                          LIGHTPATH TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            YEAR ENDED JUNE 30
                                                               --------------------------------------------
                                                                   2002            2001            2000
                                                               ------------    ------------    ------------
<S>                                                            <C>             <C>             <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
  Net loss                                                     $(50,683,337)   $(60,763,361)   $(15,610,067)
  Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash
   used in operating activities:
    Depreciation and amortization                                10,922,531      16,261,789       3,090,322
    Gain on sale of equipment                                      (117,665)             --              --
    Provision for uncollectible accounts receivable                 199,238         105,947              --
    Debt discount                                                        --              --         425,795
    Write off abandoned patents                                      79,333              --         132,011
    Asset impairments                                            16,508,387      13,772,867              --
    Stock-based compensation                                      4,809,720      11,164,505       3,144,980
    Acquired in-process research and development                         --       9,100,000       4,200,000
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities (net of
   the effect of acquisitions):
    Trade receivables                                               820,047      (1,051,825)        639,450
    Inventories                                                   2,897,943      (2,656,444)       (531,698)
    Prepaid expenses and other                                      (28,346)       (317,053)       (197,858)
    Accounts payable and accrued liabilities,
     including payroll                                              678,936        (588,408)      1,451,545
    Accrued severance and exit costs                              1,059,680              --              --
                                                               ------------    ------------    ------------
  Net cash used in operating activities                         (12,853,533)    (14,971,983)     (3,255,520)

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  Property and equipment additions, net                          (2,757,528)     (7,230,694)     (5,148,438)
  Costs incurred in acquiring patents and license agreements        (60,171)        (84,630)        (58,324)
  Proceeds from sale of assets                                      904,841              --              --
  Proceeds from note receivable                                      33,201              --              --
  Acquisitions, net of cash acquired                                     --         (18,411)     (2,164,662)
  Investment in LightChip                                        (1,500,345)     (7,234,885)     (1,570,000)
                                                               ------------    ------------    ------------
  Net cash used in investing activities                          (3,380,002)    (14,568,620)     (8,941,424)

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  Proceeds from issuance of 6% convertible
   debentures, net of discount and offering costs                        --              --         893,326
  Payment on notes payable and capital leases                      (153,925)     (1,484,704)        (30,000)
  Proceeds from sales of Convertible Series F
   preferred stock, net                                                  --              --       3,880,324
  Proceeds from exercise of common stock options
   and warrants, net                                                292,050       1,570,211      65,509,236
  Proceeds from issuance of common stock                                 --              --         258,800
                                                               ------------    ------------    ------------
  Net cash provided by financing activities                         138,125          85,507      70,511,686
                                                               ------------    ------------    ------------
  Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash
   equivalents                                                  (16,095,410)    (29,455,096)     58,314,742
  Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period               29,273,034      58,728,130         413,388
                                                               ------------    ------------    ------------
  Cash and cash equivalents at end of period                   $ 13,177,624    $ 29,273,034    $ 58,728,130
                                                               ============    ============    ============

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:
  Interest paid                                                $      9,210    $     72,811    $      1,180
  Non-cash investing and financing activities:
  Class A common stock, warrant and stock options
  issued for acquisitions                                      $         --    $ 27,713,836    $ 37,968,613
  Class A common stock issued upon conversion of
   preferred stock                                             $     11,984    $        557    $     10,670
  Note receivable in exchange for equipment                    $    510,000    $         --    $         --
  Conversion of redeemable convertible preferred stock
   to Class A common stock                                     $  1,478,976    $    274,177    $  3,934,501
  Preferred stock premium                                      $    (61,906)   $    (89,549)   $   (137,281)
  Class E common stock - redeemed in 2001 and
   issued in 2000                                              $         --    $     40,221    $        421
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.

                                       F-6
<PAGE>
                          LIGHTPATH TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                             JUNE 30, 2002 AND 2001

ORGANIZATION AND LIQUIDITY

LightPath Technologies,  Inc. ("LightPath" or the "Company") was incorporated in
Delaware on June 15, 1992 as the  successor  to LightPath  Technologies  Limited
Partnership  formed in 1989, and its predecessor,  Integrated Solar Technologies
Corporation  formed in 1985.  On April 14, 2000,  the Company  acquired  Horizon
Photonics,  Inc.  ("Horizon").  On  September  20,  2000,  the Company  acquired
Geltech,  Inc.  ("Geltech").  The  Company  is  engaged  in  the  production  of
collimator,  isolator,  and precision molded aspheric optics used in the telecom
components  market,  GRADIUM(R)  glass lenses and other optical  materials.  The
Company also performs  research and  development  for optical  solutions for the
fiber  telecommunications  and traditional  optics markets.  As used herein, the
terms ("LightPath" or the "Company"), refer to LightPath individually or, as the
context requires, collectively with its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.

The Company has incurred substantial losses since inception.  During fiscal year
1996,  the Company  completed an initial public  offering  ("IPO") and in fiscal
years 1997,  1998 and 2000 the Company  completed  four  private  placements  of
convertible preferred stock and one private placement for convertible debentures
to  raise  additional  capital.  These  funds  were  used to  further  research,
development and  commercialization of optoelectronic  products and GRADIUM glass
lenses.  During  fiscal  year  2000,  warrants  issued  at the IPO  and  private
placement warrants were exercised for approximately $65.5 million.

The optical  components  markets have  experienced a severe downturn  throughout
fiscal 2002,  resulting in a significant  decline in the demand for our products
as well as our  competitors.  Cash  used  in  operations  for  fiscal  2002  was
approximately  $12.9  million,  a decrease of  approximately  $2.1  million from
fiscal 2001.  Throughout  fiscal 2002 the Company reduced its cash  expenditures
through improved manufacturing efficiencies,  suspension of selected development
projects  and  consolidation  of  equipment  and  facilities.  During the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company  announced plans to consolidate lens product
lines in Florida,  close the New Mexico  facilities  and  reorganize  internally
which will further  decrease our cash  requirements  for fiscal 2003.  While the
Company has no firm  commitments  for any future  financing at this time, with a
cash balance of  approximately  $13.2 million at June 30, 2002, the Company will
take the necessary actions to manage through this downturn. The Company believes
that its  financial  resources  will be  sufficient  to  finance  the  Company's
operations and capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, for the next twelve
months.

1.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  include the accounts of the Company and its
wholly-owned  subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany transactions have been
eliminated in consolidation.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS consist of cash in the bank and temporary  investments
with original maturities of ninety days or less when purchased.

INVENTORIES  which consists  principally of raw  materials,  lenses,  isolators,
collimators  and  components  are  stated at the lower of cost or  market,  on a
first-in,   first-out  basis.  Inventory  costs  include  materials,  labor  and
manufacturing overhead.

PROPERTY  AND  EQUIPMENT  are  stated  at  cost  and   depreciated   using  both
straight-line  and  accelerated  methods over the estimated  useful lives of the
related assets ranging from three to seven years.  Platinum molds less estimated
salvage value are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives ranging from one to two years.

INTANGIBLE  ASSETS  consisting of goodwill,  customer list and supply contracts,
licenses,  patents, trademarks and others are recorded at cost. Upon issuance of
the  license,  patent or  trademark,  these  assets are being  amortized  on the
straight-line  basis  over the  estimated  useful  lives of the  related  assets
ranging  from  ten to  seventeen  years.  Goodwill,  customer  list  and  supply
contracts and other  intangibles are being  amortized on a  straight-line  basis

                                      F-7
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

over the  estimated  period  of  benefit  ranging  from two to five  years.  The
recoverability  of the carrying values of these intangible  assets are evaluated
on a recurring  basis.  Long-lived  assets are reviewed for impairment  whenever
events or changes in  circumstances  indicate  that the  carrying  amount of the
assets may not be  recoverable.  When an evaluation  is required,  the estimated
future  undiscounted  cash flows  associated  with the asset are compared to the
asset's  carrying amount to determine if a write-down to fair value is required.
See Notes 3 and 4.

INVESTMENTS  consists of the  Company's  ownership  interest in  LightChip  Inc.
(LightChip) which is accounted for under the cost method.

INCOME TAXES are accounted for under the asset and  liability  method.  Deferred
income tax assets and  liabilities  are  computed  for  differences  between the
financial  statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities that will result in
taxable or  deductible  amounts in the future  based upon  enacted  tax laws and
rates  applicable to the periods in which the differences are expected to affect
taxable income.  Valuation  allowances are established  when necessary to reduce
deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized.

REVENUE is generally  recognized from product sales when products are shipped to
the customer  provided that LightPath has received a valid purchase  order,  the
price is fixed, title has transferred,  collection of the associated  receivable
is  reasonably  assured,  and there are no  remaining  significant  obligations.
Revenues from product  development  agreements  are recognized as milestones are
completed  in  accordance  with the  terms  of the  agreements.  Provisions  for
estimated losses are made in the period in which such losses are determined.

Sales to Finisar,  Corp. were  approximately  $3 million which represents 24% of
all revenues for the year ended June 30, 2002.  Sales to the Agere Systems,  Inc
(formerly   Microelectronics   division  of  Lucent   Technologies   Inc.)  were
approximately  $11.5 million which  represents  44% of all revenues for the year
ended June 30, 2001. Sales to Lucent Technologies, Inc., for the year ended June
30, 2000 were approximately $930,000 or 41% of total revenues.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT costs are expensed as incurred.

STOCK-BASED  COMPENSATION  is accounted for using the intrinsic  value method as
prescribed  by APB Opinion No. 25,  ACCOUNTING  FOR STOCK  ISSUED TO  EMPLOYEES,
under which no compensation expense is recognized when the exercise price of the
employees  stock  option  equals or exceeds the market  price of the  underlying
stock on the date of grant and other requirements are met. For options issued to
non-employees,  stock-based  compensation  is accounted for using the fair value
method as  prescribed  by Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 123,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (SFAS 123) and EITF Issue 96-18.

Pro forma  information  required by SFAS 123 has been  presented  as if the fair
value  method  using a  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model had been  applied.

MANAGEMENT  MAKES  ESTIMATES  and  assumptions  during  the  preparation  of the
Company's  consolidated financial statements that affect amounts reported in the
financial  statements and  accompanying  notes.  Such estimates and  assumptions
could  change in the future as more  information  becomes  known,  which in turn
could impact the amounts reported and disclosed herein.

FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS of the Company are disclosed as required by
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 107,  Disclosures  about Fair
Values  of  Financial  Instruments.  The  carrying  amounts  of  cash  and  cash
equivalents, trade accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities
approximate  fair value.

RECLASSIFICATION  of  certain  amounts  included  in the  prior  year  financial
statements have been made to conform to the current year presentation.

RECENT  ACCOUNTING  PRONOUNCEMENTS  not yet adopted  include  Statement No. 142,
Goodwill and Other  Intangible  Assets,  which the Company will adopt on July 1,
2002.  Statement  142 will require  that  goodwill  and  intangible  assets with
indefinite  useful  lives no longer be  amortized,  but  instead  be tested  for
impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of Statement 142.
The Company has unamortized  goodwill of approximately $2.3 million remaining at
July 1, 2002,  which will be subject to the  transition  provisions of Statement

                                      F-8
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

142.  Amortization  expense related to goodwill was $1.3 million,  $2.95 million
and  $2.95  million  for  the  years  ended  June  30,  2002,   2001  and  2000,
respectively.   Following  adoption  of  Statement  142,  amortization  expense,
estimated at  approximately  $1.3 million for the year ended June 30, 2003, will
no longer be recorded.

2.   INVENTORIES

The components of inventories include the following at June 30:

                                                 2002               2001
                                              ----------         ----------
     Raw materials                            $1,670,488         $3,208,838
     Work in process                             380,987            971,916
     Finished goods                              352,169          1,233,832
                                              ----------         ----------
     Total inventories                        $2,403,644         $5,414,587
                                              ==========         ==========

Throughout  fiscal  2002,  the Company  noted  several  factors  that caused the
re-evaluation  of the carrying value of inventory  resulting in charges to write
down inventory to net realizable value, or to write off inventory to be disposed
of given no alternative  future use was identified.  Total inventory  charges of
$1.9  million and $1.1  million  were  recorded  during  fiscal 2002  related to
finished  goods/work  in  process  and raw  materials  inventory,  respectively.
Specifically,  during the first and second quarters,  inventory  charges of $1.3
million were recorded as the Company continued to note declining quarterly sales
from  previous  levels,  lack of growth in sales  orders and no sales in certain
product areas where the Company had purchased  raw  materials.  The Company also
received  notification  that  certain  lenses  and raw  materials  did not  pass
qualification  requirements for their particular  applications during the second
quarter.  During  the  fourth  quarter,  the  manufacturing  group  changed  the
production  methodology  for  performance  improvements  rendering some products
obsolete that resulted in charges of $0.5  million.  During the fourth  quarter,
the Company also noted that the value of certain finished lens and raw materials
inventory had diminished due to changes in market conditions as some competitors
reduced  prices  for  similar  products  to a level  below  the  Company's  cost
resulting in inventory write downs of $0.4 million.  Finally,  the Company noted
uncertainty  regarding the realization of certain finished  products on hand due
to  cancelled  purchase  orders  which  resulted in write downs of $0.8  million
during the fourth quarter.

3.   PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

Property and equipment consist of the following at June 30:

                                                   2002            2001
                                                -----------     -----------
     Manufacturing equipment                    $ 8,030,935     $13,755,183
     Computer equipment and software                598,643       1,182,772
     Furniture and fixtures                         215,836         604,567
     Platinum molds                                  63,895         656,073
     Leasehold improvements                       1,157,887       1,667,582
                                                -----------     -----------
                                                 10,067,196      17,866,177
     Less accumulated depreciation                3,402,822       5,819,286
                                                -----------     -----------
     Total property and equipment               $ 6,664,374     $12,046,891
                                                ===========     ===========

During the second  quarter  of fiscal  2002,  the  Company  recorded  impairment
charges to write off  certain  excess  manufacturing  equipment  with a carrying
value  of  approximately  $0.6  million  which  was  used in the  production  of
collimators  and was removed  from  service by the Company due to changes in the
manufacturing process. The net carrying value of equipment held for disposal was
approximately $280,000 at June 30, 2002.

                                      F-9
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

During the fourth  quarter of fiscal 2001,  the Company  recorded an  impairment
charge  of  approximately  $408,000  related  to  equipment  held for  disposal,
expected  to be  completed  during  the first  quarter of fiscal  2002.  The net
carrying value of the equipment held for disposal was  approximately  $90,000 at
June 30, 2001. The equipment was used for the  production of traditional  optics
in California, which the Company was consolidated into our Florida facility. The
equipment  was sold to a third party in September  2001 in exchange for $270,000
cash and a note  receivable for $270,000  payable over a period of 5 years and a
gain of  approximately  $390,000 was  recorded.  In addition,  during the fourth
quarter, certain manufacturing equipment and inventory with a net carrying value
of $272,000  were sold to a third party for  $32,000  and a note  receivable  of
$240,000  (payable in fiscal 2003) in connection with a licensing  agreement and
no gain or loss was recognized.

4.   INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets consist of the following at June 30:

                                             Life
                                           In years        2002          2001
                                           --------    -----------   -----------
     Goodwill                                 4        $ 5,203,365   $ 5,203,365
     Customer list and supply contract        4          1,041,750     4,800,000
     Developed technology                   2 - 4        6,064,981    18,000,000
     Covenant not-to-compete                  3          3,100,000     3,100,000
     Other intangibles                      2 - 5        2,860,000     2,860,000
     Patents and trademarks granted        10 - 17         643,388       582,787
     License agreements                                         --        46,560
     Patent applications in process                         74,757       127,800
                                                       -----------   -----------
                                                        18,988,241    34,720,512
     Less accumulated amortization                      10,934,062     9,037,171
                                                       -----------   -----------
     Total intangible assets                           $ 8,054,179   $25,683,341
                                                       ===========   ===========

The  Company's  Geltech  subsidary  experienced  sales  growth  during the first
quarter of fiscal 2002,  however,  design changes by a major customer in October
2001 as well as the continued decline in the telecommications  industry led to a
significant  decline  in future  sales  projections  and growth  potential.  The
Company  determined that the estimated future  undiscounted cash flows remaining
from the developed  technology and customer list recorded in connection with the
purchase of Geltech  were below the  carrying  value of the  related  intangible
assets.  Accordingly,  during the second quarter of fiscal year 2002 the Company
recorded an impairment  charge of  approximately  $4.9 million to write down the
carrying  value  of  these   intangibles  to  their   estimated  fair  value  of
approximately  $4.7 million.  The estimated fair values of the intangible assets
were based on the  anticipated  discounted  future cash flows from revised sales
forecasts.  In addition,  the Company reversed the net deferred tax liability of
approximately  $3.3  million  established  in  connection  with the  non-taxable
purchase  of  Geltech  against  the  related  intangible  assets  prior  to  the
impairment  charge as the carrying  value of the  remaining  Geltech  intangible
assets was reduced in connection with the impairment.

During  fiscal  2001,   revenues  from  the  sale  of  Horizon's  products  were
substantial  for the first nine months of fiscal 2001,  however,  Horizon had to
defer sales under a supply contract to a significant  customer  beginning in May
2001. The Company  determined that the aggregate  estimated future  undiscounted
cash flows  related to the  customer  supply  contract and  associated  goodwill
recorded  in  connection  with the  acquisition  of  Horizon  were less then the
carrying value of the related intangible assets and the intangibles were written
down to their  estimated  fair value which  resulted in an impairment  charge of
approximately  $13.4 million being recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year
2001. In November  2001,  the customer  indicated they will not take delivery of
any remaining orders which resulted in the impairment of the remaining  carrying
value of the customer supply contract of  approximately  $1.5 million during the
second quarter of fiscal year 2002.

                                      F-10
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

5.   ACQUISITIONS

The Company did not  complete  any  acquisitions  during the year ended June 30,
2002. The Company completed the acquition described below during the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2001.

On September 20, 2000,  the Company  acquired all of the  outstanding  shares of
Geltech,  for an  aggregate  purchase  price  of  approximately  $28.5  million,
comprised of 822,737  shares of Class A common stock  (valued at $27.5  million)
and approximately $1 million in acquisition costs. The number of shares of Class
A common  stock  issued to the former  shareholders  of Geltech was based on the
average  closing  price of the Class A common  stock for five days  prior to the
date of the purchase agreement, August 9, 2000. Geltech, a Delaware corporation,
is a manufacturer of precision molded aspheric optics used in the active telecom
components  market to provide a highly efficient means to couple laser diodes to
fibers or waveguides.  The acquisition has been accounted for using the purchase
method of accounting and, accordingly, the results of operations of Geltech have
been included in the Company's  consolidated financial statements from September
20, 2000.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2001, the Company recorded a non-recurring charge
of $9.1 million, due to acquired in-process research and development based on an
assessment  of the  purchased  technology  of Geltech.  This  charge  represents
technology   that  did  not  meet  the  accounting   definitions  of  "completed
technology,"  and thus should be charged to earnings  under  generally  accepted
accounting  principles.  This assessment analyzed certain diffraction  gratings,
waveguides,   lens  arrays  and  sub-assembly   technologies   that  were  under
development at the time of acquisition. These programs were in various stages of
completion  ranging from 30% to 50% of  completion,  with  estimated  completion
dates through  December 2001. This in-process  research will have no alternative
future uses if the products are not feasible.  Revenues from in-process products
were  orginally  estimated  primarily  beginning in fiscal 2002,  with projected
research and development  costs-to-complete  of approximately $2.25 million. The
estimated fair value of these development  programs was determined in accordance
with views  expressed by the staff of the  Securities  and Exchange  Commission.
During the year ended June 30, 2002,  there were no significant  sales generated
from these programs and we concluded research efforts on two of these programs.

6.   INVESTMENT IN LIGHTCHIP, INC.

On May 21,  2002,  LightChip  issued  additional  shares of  voting  convertible
preferred stock to certain existing  shareholders of which the Company purchased
its pro-rata  interest of  approximately  $1.5 million.  The Company's  combined
common  stock and  preferred  stock voting  interest in  LightChip  decreased to
approximately  13% following the completion of the round.  This equity round was
at a price  per  share  that was less  than the  carrying  value of  LightPath's
existing investment in LightChip creating an other than temporary decline in the
fair value of our investment that resulted in a write down of approximately $6.3
million during the quarter ending June 30, 2002.

On August 21, 2000,  LightChip issued  additional  shares of voting  convertible
preferred stock for $60 million,  of which the Company funded $7.2 million,  its
pro-rata  interest.  On December 8, 1999,  LightChip issued additional shares of
voting convertible  preferred stock for $16 million, of which the Company funded
$1 million and the Company's  combined  common stock and preferred  stock voting
interest in LightChip  decreased to approximately  18% following the investment.
Accordingly,  the Company began accounting for its investment in LightChip under
the cost method in December  1999.  In  accordance  with the SEC staff  position
stated in EITF Topic D-84,  the  Company's  pro-rata  share of LightChip  losses
through December 8, 1999,  totaling  $514,288 were not recognized as a result of
the Company's additional investment.

7.   RESTRUCTURING

On June 27, 2002, the Company announced a restructuring  plan to consolidate its
corporate headquarters and manufacturing  facilities in Albuquerque,  New Mexico
to Orlando,  Florida by September 30, 2002. A restructuring accrual for employee
severance  and other exit costs was recorded at June 30, 2002 for  approximately

                                      F-11
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

$1.1 million, which includes employee severance for 67 employees and other lease
costs. As of June 30, 2002, none of the  restructuring  costs accrued were paid.
The  severance  benefits  will be paid prior to December  31, 2002 and the lease
payments will be  substantially  complete by June 30, 2003. In addition,  in the
fourth quarter the Company recorded asset impairment  charges of $3.2 million to
write  down the  carrying  value to  estimated  fair value less costs to sell of
certain manufacturing and other equipment,  and leasehold  improvements held for
disposal  in  connection  with  the  Company's  plan to  relocate  manufacturing
operations and corporate  headquarters  to Florida during fiscal 2003.

8.   CAPITAL LEASES AND NOTE PAYABLE

The Company has capital lease obligations of approximately  $10,000,  payable in
monthly  installments  including  interest at 11.7%,  which  expire in September
2002. These obligations are generally  secured by the equipment  purchased under
the agreement. Geltech is currently in negotiations with Corning Inc. related to
their licensing agreement and has not repaid a balance of approximately  $78,000
on the note payable to Corning Inc. that was  originally  due in July 1999.  The
Company  does not  accrue  interest  on the note  (prime  rate plus .5%) and the
unpaid amount is included in the capital lease  obligations  and note payable at
June 30, 2002. The Company  incurred  interest expense of $9,210,  $77,904,  and
$1,180 in years ended June 30, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

A line of credit for $500,000 expired in June 2002.

9.   REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

Authorized  5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. From June 1997 to January 1998,
the Board of Directors  designated 950 shares as Series A, Series B and Series C
Convertible  Preferred  Stock;  $.01 par value. The Company entered into private
placement  transactions  which  provided  proceeds  on the sale of 785 shares of
Series A,  Series B and  Series C  Preferred  Stock  totaling  $7,850,000,  less
issuance  costs  of  approximately  $660,000,   resulting  in  net  proceeds  of
approximately $7,190,000 by their respective final closing dates. As of June 30,
2001, all Series A, Series B and Series C shares were converted to common stock.

In  October  1999,  the Board of  Directors  designated  500  shares as Series F
Convertible  Preferred Stock; $.01 par value. The Company entered into a private
placement  transaction  which  provided  proceeds  on the sale of 408  shares of
Series  F  Preferred   Stock  totaling   $4,080,000,   less  issuance  costs  of
approximately $180,000 resulting in net proceeds of approximately  $3,900,000 by
the final  closing  date,  November 2, 1999.  During the third quarter of fiscal
2002,  the 127  outstanding  shares  of  Series F  Convertible  Preferred  Stock
outstanding were converted into 1,198,404 shares of Class A common stock.

Designations,  rights, and preferences related to the remaining preferred shares
may be  determined  by the  Board  of  Directors.  The  terms of any  series  of
preferred  stock may include  priority claims to assets and dividends and voting
or other rights.

The  Series A,  Series B,  Series C and  Series F  Convertible  Preferred  Stock
(collectively  "Convertible Preferred Stock") had a stated value and liquidation
preference of $10,000 per share, plus an 8% per annum premium (7% Series F). The
holders  of the  Convertible  Preferred  Stock  are not  entitled  to vote or to
receive  dividends.  Each share of Convertible  Preferred  Stock was convertible
into Class A common  stock at the option of the holder based on its stated value
at the conversion date divided by a conversion  price.  The conversion  price is
defined  as the lesser of  $5.625,  $7.2375,  $6.675 and $5.00 for the Series A,
Series B, Series C and Series F Convertible  Preferred Stock,  respectively,  or
85% (80% Series F) of the average  closing  bid price of the  Company's  Class A
common stock for the five days  preceding the  conversion  date.  The beneficial
conversion  feature  in each of the Series A,  Series B and  Series C  Preferred
Stock  was  recognized  as an  imputed  dividend  prior  to June 30,  1998.  The
beneficial  conversion feature in the Series F Preferred Stock was recognized as
an  imputed  dividend  for the  year  ended  June 30,  2000,  in the  amount  of
$2,094,662,  increasing net loss applicable to common shareholders from the date
of issuance to the first date that conversion can occur.

                                      F-12
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

Based on the SEC staff guidance  addressed in EITF Topic D-98,  which  indicates
that the  possibility  that any  triggering  event that is not solely within the
control of the issuer could occur - without regard to probability - requires the
security to be classified  outside of permanent equity,  the Company  classified
the Series F preferred stock outside of  stockholders'  equity,  for all periods
presented.

Preferred stock activity during the fiscal periods ended June 30, 2002, 2001 and
2000 were as follows:

                                                  CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
                                                 -----------------------------
                                                  SERIES A,
                                                 SERIES B &
     SHARES OUTSTANDING AT:                       SERIES C   SERIES F    TOTAL
                                                  --------   --------    -----
     June 30, 1999                                   122         --        122
                                                    ----       ----       ----
       Issuance of Series F preferred stock           --        408        408
       Conversions to common stock                  (122)      (255)      (377)
                                                    ----       ----       ----
     June 30, 2000                                    --        153        153
                                                    ----       ----       ----
       Conversions to common stock                    --        (26)       (26)

     June 30, 2001                                    --        127        127
       Conversions to common stock                    --       (127)      (127)
                                                    ----       ----       ----
     June 30, 2002                                    --         --         --
                                                    ====       ====       ====

10.   STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

The  Company  completed  an IPO on February  22, 1996 for the sale of  1,840,000
units at an initial public  offering price of $5.00.  Each unit consisted of one
share of Class A common stock, one Class A warrant and one Class B warrant.

Common Stock - The Company's common stock consists of the following:

Authorized  34,500,000  shares  of Class A common  stock,  $.01 par  value.  The
stockholders  of Class A common  stock are  entitled  to one vote for each share
held.

The Company's  authorized  common stock includes,  2,000,000 shares of Class E-1
common stock, 2,000,000 shares of Class E-2 common stock and 1,500,000 shares of
Class E-3 common stock  (collectively  the "E Shares" ) with $.01 par value. The
stockholders  of E Shares are  entitled to one vote for each share held.  Each E
Share was  automatically  convertible  into one share of Class A common stock in
the event  that the  Company's  income  before  provision  of  income  taxes and
extraordinary  items or any charges  which result from the  conversion  of the E
Shares  was  equal to or in excess of a  minimum  value of  approximately  $13.5
million in fiscal 2000.  Since the conversion  provisions  expired without being
met as of June 30, 2000, the E Shares were redeemed by the Company, effective as
of  September  30,  2000.  The former  holders of E Shares  will  receive  their
redemption value of $.0001 per share as well as $0.40 per share in settlement of
certain stockholder litigation beginning August 2002. See Note 15.

Warrants

Class C, Class E, Class G and Class K warrants  were issued in  connection  with
the private  placements of Series A, Series B, Series C and Series F Convertible
Preferred  Stock.  A total of 320,000  Class C, 317,788 Class E, 365,169 Class G
and 489,600 Class K warrants were granted to the  preferred  stockholders  which
entitle the holder to purchase  one share of Class A common stock at an exercise
price of $5.63, $7.24, $6.68 and $5.00, respectively, expiring from July 2000 to
November 2002. Each of the investors in the Series F Convertible Preferred Stock
previously invested in the Company's Series A, B and C Preferred Stock. In order

                                      F-13
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

to  induce  them to invest  in the  Series F  Convertible  Preferred  Stock,  in
November  1999 the Company  reduced  the  applicable  exercise  prices by twenty
percent and extended  the  expiration  dates by three years for all  outstanding
Class C, E and G warrants issued in connection with the sale of such Series A, B
and C Preferred Stock. A total of 64,000 Class D, 47,668 Class F, 58,427 Class H
and  125,000  Class L  warrants  were  granted to the  placement  agent for each
private  placement  which  entitles  the holder to purchase one share of Class A
common stock at an exercise price of $5.63, $7.24, $6.68 and $5.00 respectively,
expiring from July 2002 until November  2004. The Company  registered the resale
of the Class A common  stock  underlying  the Series A,  Series B,  Series C and
Series F Preferred  Stock and the associated  warrants on individual  Form S-3's
which are all effective.  During fiscal 2001, 47,000 private placement  warrants
were exercised resulting in the issuance of approximately 41,633 shares of Class
A common stock. During fiscal 2000,  approximately 1.6 million private placement
warrants were exercised  resulting in the issuance of approximately  1.3 million
shares of Class A common stock.

Other  warrants  include,  warrants to purchase up to 281,250  shares of Class A
Common Stock at $6.00 per share at any time through  November 10, 2009 issued to
Robert  Ripp,  on November 5, 1999 in  connection  with his election to serve as
Chairman  of the  Board  of  Directors.  As part of the  agrement,  Robert  Ripp
purchased  62,500 shares of LightPath  Class A Common Stock for $4.00 per share.
In connection  with the Geltech  acquisition,  the Company  assumed a warrant to
purchase up to 6,753  shares of Class A Common  Stock at $25.27 per share at any
time through June 2004. The underlying shares for these warrants were registered
on a Form S-3 which remain effective.

The following table provides  information on warrants during fiscal 2002,  2001,
and 2000.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 Warrants
                                           -----------------------------------------------------
                                                                          Class         Class
                                                                         C, E, G,      D, F, H
     Outstanding                           Class A & B      I & K         J & L         Other
                                           -----------    ----------    ----------    ----------
<S>                                        <C>             <C>           <C>         <C>
     June 30, 1999                           4,519,000       914,068       123,345            --
                                            ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------

       Issuance of securities                2,950,469       916,950       275,000       281,250
       Conversions and exercises - equity   (7,469,469)   (1,392,371)     (201,345)           --
       Conversions -  debt                          --      (427,350)     (150,000)           --
                                            ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------

     June 30, 2000                                  --        11,297        47,000       281,250
                                            ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------

       Issuance of securities                    6,753
       Conversions and exercises - equity           --            --       (47,000)           --
                                            ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------

     June 30, 2001                                  --        11,297            --       288,003
                                            ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------
     June 30, 2002                                  --        11,297            --       288,003
                                            ==========    ==========    ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

                                      F-14
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

11.  INCOME TAXES

Due to the Company's losses from  operations,  there was no provision for income
taxes during the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001, and 2000.

Significant  components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are
as follows at June 30:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     Deferred tax assets:                                 2002            2001
                                                      ------------    ------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
        Net operating loss and credit carryforwards   $ 24,199,000    $ 20,648,000
        Stock-based compensation                         6,962,000       5,038,000
        Investment in LightChip                          3,056,000         523,000
        Research and development expenses                1,195,000         232,000
        Inventory                                        1,164,000         654,000
        Accrued expenses and other                       2,736,000         138,000
                                                      ------------    ------------
     Gross deferred tax assets                          39,312,000      27,233,000
     Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets       (35,674,000)    (20,968,000)
                                                      ------------    ------------
        Total deferred tax assets                        3,638,000       6,265,000
     Deferred tax liabilities:
        Intangible assets                               (2,107,000)     (8,704,000)
        Depreciation and other                          (1,531,000)       (877,000)
                                                      ------------    ------------
        Total deferred tax liabilities                  (3,638,000)     (9,581,000)
                                                      ------------    ------------
     Net deferred tax liability                       $         --    $ (3,316,000)
                                                      ============    ============
</TABLE>

The  valuation  allowance  increased by  approximately  $14.7  million and $17.6
million  during the years  ended June 30,  2002 and 2001,  respectively.  To the
extent that  approximately  $3.0 million of the valuation  allowance  related to
acquired  tax  attributes  is reduced in future  periods,  the  benefit  will be
recognized as a reduction to goodwill and  intangible  assets prior to recording
any future benefits.

The reconciliation of income tax attributable to operations computed at the U.S.
federal  statutory  tax rates  and the  actual  tax  provision  of zero  results
primarily from the change in the valuation allowance.

At June 30, 2002, the Company has consolidated net operating loss  carryforwards
for federal income tax purposes of approximately  $60.5 million  (including $8.5
million of acquired net  operating  losses)  which will expire from 2009 through
2022, if not previously utilized.  The Company also has research and development
credit  carryforwards  of  approximately  $660,000  which will  expire from 2009
through 2022, if not  previously  utilized.  A portion of the net operating loss
carryforwards   and  the  majority  of  the  research  and  development   credit
carryforwards  are subject to certain  limitations of the Internal  Revenue Code
which  restrict their annual  utilization  in future periods due  principally to
changes in ownership in prior periods.

12.  EMPLOYEE AND DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLANS

At June 30, 2002, the Company has three stock based compensation plans which are
described   below.   The  Company   applies  APB  Opinion  No.  25  and  related
Interpretations  and SFAS 123  (non-employee  grants only) in accounting for its
plans.  No  compensation  costs have been recognized for its fixed stock options
grants to employees where the fair market value of the underlying  stock equaled
the option price at the date of grant.

In June 1992, the Company implemented the Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "Incentive
Plan"),  and the Directors Stock Option Plan (the "Directors Plan"). The Company
has reserved  3,275,000  shares of common  stock for awards under the  Incentive
Plan.  The number of shares  reserved for award under the Directors Plan at June
30, 2002 is 450,000 shares of common stock.

The Incentive  Plan  authorizes the Company to grant various awards using common
stock,  and cash to officers and key  employees of the Company.  Prior to fiscal
2001,  only  incentive  stock  options  had been  issued  under the plan with an

                                      F-15
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

exercise  price equal to the fair market  value of the  underlying  stock on the
date the options are granted and an average vesting period of four years. During
fiscal 2001, following the Geltech acquisition, the Company issued 130,000 stock
options with  exercise  prices below fair market value on the date of grant.  In
addition,  the Company  issued 86,745 and 67,912 shares of common stock for time
accelerated  restricted  stock awards to management  during fiscal 2002 and 2001
respectively,  which vest upon  continued  employment  for five years,  or three
years if  certain  performance  criteria  are met.  The  intrinsic  value of the
restricted stock awards is being recognized over the vesting period. The Company
recognized  a  stock-based  compensation  charge of  approximately  $310,000 and
$330,000 in fiscal 2002 and 2001  respectively,  related to the restricted stock
awards and the in-the-money  options.  The term of the options granted under the
Incentive Plan cannot exceed ten years and grants to  stockholders  who hold 10%
or more of the Company  stock  cannot  exceed five years from the date of grant.
There are  approximately  323,000 options under the Incentive Plan available for
grant at June 30, 2002.

The Directors Plan  authorizes  the Company to grant awards to certain  eligible
non-employee  directors of the Company using common  stock.  Under the plan each
non-employee  director receives options to purchase shares of the Company common
stock.  Prior to fiscal 2001,  the  director's  option vested ratably over their
three year term.  In fiscal  2001,  the plan  adopted an annual grant which vest
monthly over the year.  Each option  granted  under the  Directors  Plan will be
granted at a price equal to the fair market value of the underlying stock on the
date the options are granted with a term of ten years.  There are  approximately
63,000 options under the Director Plan available for grant at June 30, 2002.

In addition,  the Company has issued nonqualified  options to certain directors,
officers  and  consultants  to the  Company  not  covered  by the  Incentive  or
Directors  Plans.  In  November  1999,  the  Company  entered  into a  Directors
Compensation Agreement,  pursuant to which the Company's Chairman could elect to
receive a restricted  stock grant if the closing price of the Company's  Class A
common stock exceeded  certain targets during the term of the agreement.  During
the quarter  ended March 31, 2000,  the target  prices  defined in the agreement
were reached resulting in the recording of a non-cash  stock-based  compensation
charge  which was subject to  adjustment  for changes in the market value of the
Class A common stock. Accordingly through March 31, 2000, the Company recognized
a non-cash stock-based  compensation charge of approximately $710,000, under the
terms of the  original  agreement.  Subsequent  to March 31,  2000,  the Company
modified the terms of the  Directors  Compensation  Agreement  whereby the share
substitution  clause was deleted.  The Chairman received two nonqualified  stock
option  grants to acquire 1 million  and  500,000  shares each of Class A Common
Stock with a ten-year term which vest on December 1, 2001.  The exercise  prices
are $6 and $24 per  share,  respectively.  Based  on the  terms  of the  options
granted (1 million granted with an exercise  prices less than market),  non-cash
charges of  approximately  $18 million will be amortized over the vesting period
of the options. In addition,  219,000 and 150,000 options were granted in fiscal
2001 and 2000,  respectively,  to  officers  at a price equal to the fair market
value of the  underlying  stock on the date of grant,  with a term of ten years.
The board of directors  accelerated  the vesting of certain options issued which
resulted in the recording of stock-based  compensation  charges of approximately
$35,000  and   $400,000   during  the  years  ended  June  30,  2001  and  2000,
respectively.  In the aggregate,  approximately $4.8 million,  $11.2 million and
$3.1  million of non-cash  charges  were  recorded  for the years ended June 30,
2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

                                      F-16
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

A summary of the status of the stock option plans as of June 30, 2002,  2001 and
2000 and changes during the years ended is presented below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                          Weighted
                                                                                           Average
Shares under option:                  Incentive Plan   Directors Plan    Nonqualified   Exercise Price
                                      --------------   --------------    ------------   --------------
<S>                                   <C>              <C>               <C>         <C>
     Outstanding at June 30, 1999          998,874          206,049           39,928      $     6.29
     Granted at market value               718,321           60,227          650,000      $    16.47
     Granted below market value                 --               --        1,000,000      $     6.00
     Exercised                            (419,257)         (36,000)              --      $     4.77
     Lapsed or canceled                    (18,181)              --             (435)     $     5.18
                                        ----------       ----------       ----------      ----------
     Outstanding at June 30, 2000        1,279,757          230,276        1,689,493      $    10.82
     Granted at market value             1,032,781           80,000          219,000      $    17.00
     Granted below market value            130,000               --               --      $    33.43
     Exercised                            (254,656)         (46,510)          (7,645)     $     4.96
     Lapsed or canceled                    (68,400)         (24,642)         (10,000)     $    14.99
                                        ----------       ----------       ----------      ----------
     Outstanding at June 30, 2001        2,119,482          239,124        1,890,848      $    13.86
     Granted at market value               643,145           64,000          262,000      $     3.64
     Exercised                            (107,500)              --               --      $     2.75
     Lapsed or canceled                   (526,687)              --          (66,000)     $    12.42
                                        ----------       ----------       ----------      ----------
     Outstanding at June 30, 2002        2,128,440          303,124        2,086,848      $    12.12
                                        ==========       ==========       ==========      ==========


     Options exercisable:
     June 30, 2002                         823,201          295,204        1,668,848      $    12.46
                                        ==========       ==========       ==========      ==========
     June 30, 2001                         565,270          215,188           66,848      $    11.31
                                        ==========       ==========       ==========      ==========
     June 30, 2000                         487,591          180,728           39,493      $     6.67
                                        ==========       ==========       ==========      ==========
</TABLE>

The following table summarizes information about fixed stock options outstanding
at June 30, 2002:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                  Options Outstanding                           Options Exercisable
                  -------------------------------------------------       --------------------------------
                      Number       Weighted-Avg.                             Number
   Range of       outstanding at     Remaining        Weighted-Avg.       Exercisable at     Weighted-Avg.
Exercise Prices   June 30, 2002   Contractual Life   Exercise Price       June 30, 2002     Exercise Price
- ---------------   -------------   ----------------   --------------       -------------     --------------
<S>              <C>             <C>                  <C>                <C>                 <C>
  $1 to 7.49        2,278,172       8.0 Years            $ 4.97             1,475,266           $ 5.67
  $7.5 to 15          716,000          8.0               $10.69               325,425           $10.12
   $16 to 20          476,750          8.2               $17.80               228,500           $17.71
   $21 to 30          889,522          8.0               $24.56               704,094           $24.33
   $31 to 52          157,968          7.6               $34.34                53,968           $35.36
                   ----------                                              ----------
    $1 to 52        4,518,412          8.0               $12.12             2,787,253           $12.46
                   ==========                                              ==========
</TABLE>

Had  compensation  costs for the Company's stock based  compensation  plans been
determined  using the fair value method of FASB Statement No. 123, the Company's
net loss would have been increased to the pro forma amounts  indicated below for
the years ended June 30:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               2002            2001              2000
                                                          --------------  --------------    --------------
<S>                                                       <C>             <C>               <C>
Net loss applicable to common shareholders, as reported   $  (50,745,243) $(60,852,910))    $  (17,842,010)
                                                          ==============  ==============    ==============

Net loss applicable to common shareholders, pro forma     $  (55,829,000) $  (62,328,000)   $  (18,719,000)
                                                          ==============  ==============    ==============

Basic and diluted net loss per share, as reported         $        (2.56) $        (3.19)   $        (1.86)
                                                          ==============  ==============    ==============

Basic and diluted net loss per share, pro forma           $        (2.82) $        (3.27)   $        (1.95)
                                                          ==============  ==============    ==============
</TABLE>

                                      F-17
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

The  weighted-average  fair value of options granted during the years ended June
30, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $2.89,  $13.63,  and $9.33,  respectively.  The fair
value of each incentive option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes   option-pricing   model  with  the   following   weighted-average
assumptions used for grants in fiscal:

                                                2002       2001       2000
                                                 ---        ---        ---
     Expected Life (years)                         3          3          3
     Risk free interest rate                       6%         7%         7%
     Volatility                                  150%       125%       125%
     Dividend Yield                                0%         0%         0%

13.  NET LOSS PER SHARE

Basic net loss per common  share is  computed  based upon the  weighted  average
number  of  common  shares  outstanding   during  each  period  presented.   The
computation  of Diluted net loss per common share does not differ from the basic
computation because potentially issuable securities would be anti-dilutive.  The
following outstanding securities were not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share at June 30, 2002: 4,518,412 Class A common stock options, and
private placement and other warrants to acquire 299,300 shares of Class A common
stock.

A premium  ranging from 7 to 8 percent earned by the preferred  shareholders  of
$61,906,  $89,549,  and $137,281  increased  the net loss  applicable  to common
shareholders for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. In
addition, net loss applicable to common shareholders was increased by an imputed
dividend in the amount of  $2,094,662  during the year ended June 30, 2000.  The
imputed dividend resulted from a beneficial  conversion  feature associated with
the Series F Preferred Stock issued on November 2, 1999.

14.  PENSION PLAN

The Company implemented a defined  contribution plan on January 1, 1997 covering
substantially all employees.  Annual  discretionary  contributions,  if any, are
made by the  Company  to match a  portion  of the  funds  employees  contribute.
Company matching  contributions  during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001 were
approximately  $65,000. There were no company matching contributions made during
the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002 and 2000.

15.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has operating  leases for office equipment and office space. At June
30, 2002, the Company has entered into lease  agreements for  manufacturing  and
office facilities in Albuquerque,  New Mexico, Walnut,  California,  New Jersey,
and Orlando, Florida. These leases, which are generally for five year terms with
renewal  options,  expire  beginning in September  2002 through  November  2008.
Equipment  rental  agreements are generally for three year terms.  Equipment and
office rent expense recognized for the years ended June 30, 2002, 2001, and 2000
was  approximately   $1.5  million,   $950,000,   and  $285,000,   respectively.
Commitments under noncancelable  operating leases,  excluding amounts accrued as
exit costs in  connection  with the  Company's  plan to relocate  operations  to
Florida (see note 7),are  approximately  $0.8 million for 2003; $0.7 million for
2004; $0.6 million for 2005; $0.6 million for 2006 and $1.5 million for 2007 and
beyond.

The  Company  has  employment  agreements,  which  expire in March 2003  through
September  2003,  with officers and key employees which provide for an aggregate
payment of salaries of  approximately  $0.7  million  annually.  The Company has
outstanding  purchase  commitments for approximately  $300,000 at June 30, 2002.
The majority of these commitments are for raw materials and lens finishing.

                                      F-18
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

On May 2, 2000,  the Company  commenced a class  action  lawsuit in the Chancery
Court of Delaware,  New Castle County.  The action seeks a declaratory  judgment
with respect to the Company's  right to redeem the Class E Common Stock on March
31, 2001 for $.0001 per share,  the right of the holders of Class E Common Stock
to  vote  at the  Annual  Meeting  to be  held  on  October  6,  2000,  and  for
certification  of the  holders of Class E Common  Stock as a class and the named
defendants as its  representatives.  The named  defendants are Donald E. Lawson,
former  President,  Chief Executive  Officer and a Director of the Company,  who
owns an aggregate of 25,000 shares of Class E Common Stock,  Louis G. Leeburg, a
Director of the Company, who owns an aggregate of 7,272 shares of Class E Common
Stock, and William  Leeburg,  who owns or controls an aggregate of 21,816 shares
of Class E Common Stock. The Company entered into a proposed  settlement of this
lawsuit  whereby  the  holders of Class E Common  Stock  could  elect to receive
either  $.40 for each  share of  Class E Common  Stock or a two year  option  to
purchase  one Class A Common  Stock for each 100 shares of Class E Common  Stock
they hold. On January 8, 2001, the Delaware Chancery Court held a hearing on the
proposed  settlement  and ruled on  February  2, 2001,  that  holders of Class E
Common  Stock must be  provided an  opportunity  to request  exclusion  from the
settlement  class.  In December  2001,  the Company  agreed to proceed  with the
settlement to include a provision  that each former E shareholder  has the right
to request  exclusion  from the  settlement  class.  By June 30, 2002, the final
settlement  arrangements  had been  mailed to former  holders  of Class E Common
Stock  pursuant to which they would  receive a  settlement  payment of $0.40 for
each  share.  Approximately  3.6  million  shares of Class E Common  Stock  will
participate  in the  settlement  whereas  holders of  approximately  0.5 million
shares  opted out of the  settlement.  The  Company  has  determined  that it is
probable that the settlement offer will occur and an estimated settlement charge
of $1.5 million has been accrued as of June 30, 2002.

On or about June 9, 2000,  a small group of holders of Class E Common Stock (the
"Texas  Plaintiffs")  commenced  an action in a state court in Texas (the "Texas
Action").  The Texas  Plaintiffs  allege  that the actions of the  Company,  and
certain named  individuals,  leading up to and  surrounding  the Company's  1995
proxy  statement  constitute  fraud,  negligent  misrepresentation,   fraudulent
inducement, breach of fiduciary duty and civil conspiracy. In general, the Texas
Plaintiffs allege  misrepresentations and omissions in connection with a request
from the Company that its shareholders consent to a recapitalization,  resulting
in a 5.5 to 1 reverse  stock split and the  issuance  of certain  Class E Common
Stock. The Texas Plaintiffs  further allege that, as a result of the defendants'
actions,  they were induced to consent to the  Company's  recapitalization.  The
Company  believes the  allegations  underlying the Texas Action have no basis in
fact and that this lawsuit is without  merit.  The Company has retained  counsel
and is vigorously  defending against these claims. The participants in the Texas
Action will be  provided  the  opportunity  to accept the  settlement  discussed
above. In addition,  the Company participated in a mediation proceeding relating
to the Texas  Action on October  23,  2001.  During  fiscal  2002,  the  Company
incurred and expensed legal fees associated  with these claims of  approximately
$0.7 million,  however,  an insurance claim for the aggregate amount incurred in
connection  with the Texas Action in excess of applicable  deductibles  has been
filed by the  Company.  During  the first  quarter  of fiscal  2002,  one of the
insurance  companies  responsible for the claim,  which had previously filed for
reorganization,  was declared insolvent.  The Company is working with regulatory
agencies to resolve and collect the monies due under this  policy,  although the
Company  currently  considers  any  potential  recovery  under  this  policy  as
speculative. Accordingly, no claim for recovery is recorded as of June 30, 2002.
On March 6, 2002, the Company commenced an action in a state court in New Mexico
for various  claims  surrounding  the now  insolvent  insurance  carrier and the
Company's former insurance broker.

On November 15, 2000, the Company filed a complaint against Carmichael & Company
LLC, in the State of New Mexico, for violation of its agreement with the Company
as  financial  advisors  and  sought to  terminate  the  agreement.  On or about
November  15,  2000,  Carmichael  & Company  LLC filed a  complaint  against the
Company  in the  State  of  New  York,  for  breach  of  contract  and  claiming
approximately  $5 million in damages.  On April 5, 2001,  the parties met in New
Mexico for mediation  and was settled by payment of $1.3 million to  Carmichael.
The Company  incurred  approximately  $300,000 in legal fees in connection  with
this matter during fiscal 2001. The financial advisor contract with Carmichael &
Company LLC was terminated and both parties  released the other from any further
claims.

                                      F-19
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

The Company is involved in various legal actions arising in the normal course of
business.  After taking into  consideration  legal counsel's  evaluation of such
actions,  management  is of the  opinion  that  their  outcome  will  not have a
significant effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

16.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002, 2001, and 2000,  current  directors
(or their firms) of the Company,  provided legal and consulting  services to the
Company  for which  they  billed  the  Company  an  aggregate  of  approximately
$478,000, $405,000, and $425,000, respectively.

Sales  to  Lucent  Technologies,  Inc.,  which  owned  approximately  3% of  the
outstanding  Class A common  stock of the  Company,  for the year ended June 30,
2000 were approximately $930,000.

17.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

Optoelectronics  and Fiber  Telecommunications  ("Telecom"),  represents  67% of
total fiscal 2002 revenues of the Company, and Traditional Optics, represent 33%
of total fiscal 2002 revenues,  are the Company's reportable segments under SFAS
No.  131,"Disclosure  about Segments of an Enterprise  and Related  Information"
(SFAS 131). The telecom  segment is based  primarily on the development and sale
of fiber collimators and fiber-optic switches,  free space isolators,  precision
molded  aspheric  optics and other related  passive  component  products for the
optoelectronics  segment of the  telecommunications  industry.  The  traditional
optics  segment is based  primarily  upon the sale of lenses to the data storage
and medical  equipment  market and the  development and sale of GRADIUM glass in
the form of lenses and blanks for the general optics markets. During fiscal 2002
approximately  $3.4  million in telecom  sales were  derived  from two  isolator
customers.  During fiscal 2001 approximately $13.4 million in telecom sales were
derived from one  isolator and one  collimator  customer and  approximately  $.6
million of  traditional  lens  sales were  derived  from one  medical  equipment
customer.  During fiscal 2000  approximately  $1.3 million in sales were derived
from one isolator and one collimator customer and approximately $227,000 of lens
sales were derived from two YAG laser customers.

                                      F-20
<PAGE>
                          LightPath Technologies, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       June 30, 2002 and 2001 (Continued)

Summarized  financial  information  concerning the Company's reportable segments
for the respective years ended June 30, is shown in the following table.

                                    Traditional      Corporate
Segment Information    Telecom        Optics       And other (1)       Total
- -------------------    -------        ------       -------------       -----
Revenues (2)
          2002      $   8,339,467    4,167,115               --    $ 12,506,582
          2001      $  21,076,466    5,066,690               --    $ 26,143,156
          2000      $   1,497,911      768,353               --    $  2,266,264

Segment operating loss (3)
          2002      $ (11,705,885)  (4,006,492)     (35,869,368)   $(51,581,745)
          2001      $  (7,201,837)      73,162      (55,997,603)   $(63,126,278)
          2000      $  (7,540,317)    (365,316)      (8,292,289)   $(16,197,922)

Depreciation and amortization
          2002      $   8,147,870    2,534,427          240,234    $ 10,922,531
          2001      $  13,450,705    2,617,060          194,024    $ 16,261,789
          2000      $   2,468,543      558,205           63,574    $  3,090,322

Capital expenditures for
  segment assets
          2002      $   1,649,634      401,379          706,515    $  2,757,528
          2001      $   5,500,656    1,146,402          583,636    $  7,230,694
          2000      $   2,768,108    2,255,552          124,778    $  5,148,438

Total assets
          2002      $  16,733,907    5,283,454       14,959,867    $ 36,977,228
          2001      $  40,307,590   12,899,691       31,083,127    $ 84,290,408

                                                  Other Foreign
Geographic                                          Countries
Information         United States     Canada        (over 15)          Total
- -----------         -------------     ------        ---------          -----
Revenues (4)
          2002      $  10,810,964      371,539        1,324,079    $  12,506,582
          2001      $  22,236,329    1,678,633        2,228,194    $  26,143,156
          2000      $   1,749,974           --          516,290    $   2,266,264

- ----------
(1)  Corporate  functions include certain members of executive  management,  the
     corporate accounting and finance function and other typical  administrative
     functions  which are not allocated to segments.  Corporate  assets  include
     cash and cash equivalents,  other receivables,  advances,  prepaid expenses
     and  unallocated  property  and  equipment.  The  Company's  investment  in
     LightChip is included in the assets of the Telecom segment.
(2)  There were no material  inter-segment sales during the years ended June 30,
     2002, 2001 or 2000.
(3)  In  addition  to  unallocated  corporate  functions,  management  does  not
     allocate restructuring  charges,  impairments,  interest expense,  interest
     income, other non-operating income and expense amounts in the determination
     of the operating performance of the reportable segments
(4)  Revenues attributed to foreign countries are export sales, and are based on
     the destination of the shipment.  The Company has no long lived assets in a
     foreign country.

                                      F-21
<PAGE>
                          LIGHTPATH TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

In accordance  with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the  registrant has
duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.


                                        LIGHTPATH TECHNOLOGIES, INC.



                                        By: /s/ Robert Ripp      August 29, 2002
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            ROBERT RIPP          DATE
                                            CHAIRMAN AND INTERIM CHIEF EXECUTIVE
                                            OFFICER, PRESIDENT

In  accordance  with the Exchange  Act, this report has been signed below by the
following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<S>                                            <C>
/s/ Robert Ripp               August 29, 2002   /s/ Kenneth Brizel      August 29, 2002
- ---------------------------------------------   ---------------------------------------
Robert Ripp                                     Kenneth Brizel, as of July 8, 2002
Chief Executive Officer, Interim                Chief Executive Officer, President and
President                                       Director (Principal Executive Officer)
(Principal Executive Officer)


/s/ Donna R. Bogue            August 29, 2002
- ---------------------------------------------
Donna R. Bogue
Senior Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer and Treasurer
(Principal Financial Officer)


/s/ Robert Ripp               August 29, 2002   /s/ James L. Adler Jr.  August 29, 2002
- ---------------------------------------------   ---------------------------------------
Robert Ripp                                     James L. Adler Jr.
Chairman of the Board                           Director


/s/ Robert Bruggeworth        August 29, 2002   /s/ Louis Leeburg       August 29, 2002
- ---------------------------------------------   ---------------------------------------
Robert Bruggeworth                              Louis Leeburg
Director                                        Director

/s/ Dr. Steven R. J. Brueck   August 29, 2002   /s/ Gary Silverman      August 29, 2002
- ---------------------------------------------   ---------------------------------------
Dr. Steven R. J. Brueck                         Gary Silverman
Director                                        Director
</TABLE>

                                       56
<PAGE>
                                  CERTIFICATION

I, Robert Ripp, certify that:

     1.   I  have  reviewed  this  annual  report  on  Form  10-K  of  LightPath
          Technologies, Inc.;

     2.   Based on my knowledge,  this annual report does not contain any untrue
          statement  of a  material  fact  or  omit to  state  a  material  fact
          necessary to make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances
          under which such  statements were made, not misleading with respect to
          the period covered by this annual report; and

     3.   Based on my knowledge,  the financial statements,  and other financial
          information  included in this  annual  report,  fairly  present in all
          material respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and
          cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods  presented in
          this annual report.

Date: August 29, 2002

                                        /s/ Robert Ripp
                                        -------------------------------
                                        Chief Executive Officer,
                                        LightPath Technologies, Inc.


I, Donna Bogue, certify that:

     4.   I  have  reviewed  this  annual  report  on  Form  10-K  of  LightPath
          Technologies, Inc.;

     5.   Based on my knowledge,  this annual report does not contain any untrue
          statement  of a  material  fact  or  omit to  state  a  material  fact
          necessary to make the statements  made, in light of the  circumstances
          under which such  statements were made, not misleading with respect to
          the period covered by this annual report; and

     6.   Based on my knowledge,  the financial statements,  and other financial
          information  included in this  annual  report,  fairly  present in all
          material respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and
          cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods  presented in
          this annual report.

Date: August 29, 2002

                                        /s/ Donna Bogue
                                        -------------------------------
                                        Chief Financial Officer,
                                        LightPath Technologies, Inc.

                                       57

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>ex23-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF KPMG LLP
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1

                    CONSENT OF KPMG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors
LightPath Technologies, Inc.

We consent to incorporation by reference in the registration  statements  (No.'s
333-41705, 333-92017, 333-96083, 333-50976 and 333-50974) on Form S-8 and (No.'s
333-37443, 333-39641, 333-93179, 333-37622, 333-47992 and 333-51474) on Form S-3
of LightPath Technologies,  Inc. of our report dated August 2, 2002, relating to
the consolidated balance sheets of LightPath Technologies, Inc. and subsidiaries
as of June  30,  2002 and  2001,  and the  related  consolidated  statements  of
operations,  stockholders'  equity  and cash  flows for each of the years in the
three year period  ended June 30,  2002,  which  report  appears in the June 30,
2002, annual report on Form 10-K of LightPath Technologies, Inc.


                                        KPMG LLP


Albuquerque, New Mexico
August 29, 2002

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>ex99-1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 99.1

                                  CERTIFICATION
            PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002
        (SUBSECTIONS (a) AND (b) OF SECTION 1350, CHAPTER 63 OF TITLE 18,
                               UNITED STATES CODE)

Pursuant to section 906 of the  Sarbanes-Oxley  Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and
(b) of section 1350,  chapter 63 of Title 18,  United States Code),  each of the
undersigned  officers of LightPath  Technologies,  Inc., a Delaware  corporation
(the  "Company"),  does hereby  certify with respect to the Annual Report of the
Company  on Form  10-K  for the year  ended  June  30,  2002 as  filed  with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the "10-K Report") that:

     (1)  the 10-K Report fully complies with the  requirements of section 13(a)
          or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2)  the information  contained in the 10-K Report fairly presents,  in all
          material respects,  the financial  condition and results of operations
          of the Company.


Dated: August 29, 2002

/s/ Robert Ripp
- ---------------------------------------
Robert Ripp
Chief Executive Officer of LightPath Technologies, Inc.


Dated: August 29, 2002

/s/ Donna Bogue
- ---------------------------------------
Donna Bogue
Chief Financial Officer of LightPath Technologies, Inc.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
