Item 7.  Management’s Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations     The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and other information included or incorporated by reference herein.     Overview     We are a specialty finance company. Our business is to purchase and service retail automobile contracts originated primarily by franchised automobile dealers and, to a lesser extent, by select independent dealers in the United States in the sale of new and used automobiles, light trucks and passenger vans. Through our automobile contract purchases, we provide indirect financing to the customers of dealers who have limited credit histories, low incomes or past credit problems, who we refer to as sub-prime customers.  We serve as an alternative source of financing for dealers, facilitating sales to customers who otherwise might not be able to obtain financing from traditional sources, such as commercial banks, credit unions and the captive finance companies affiliated with major automobile manufacturers. In addition to purchasing installment purchase contracts directly from dealers, we have also (i) acquired installment purchase contracts in three merger and acquisition transactions, (ii) purchased immaterial amounts of vehicle purchase money loans from non-affiliated lenders, and (iii) directly originated an immaterial amount of vehicle purchase money loans by lending money directly to consumers.  In this report, we refer to all of such contracts and loans as "automobile contracts."     We were incorporated and began our operations in March 1991. From inception through December 31, 2009, we have purchased a total of approximately $8.7 billion of automobile contracts from dealers.  In addition, we obtained a total of approximately $605.0 million of automobile contracts in mergers and acquisitions we made in 2002, 2003 and 2004.  In 2004 and 2009, we were appointed as a third-party servicer for certain portfolios of automobile receivables originated and owned by entities not affiliated with us.  During 2008 and 2009, unlike recent prior years, our managed portfolio decreased from the previous year due to our strategy of decreasing contract purchases to conserve our liquidity in response to adverse economic conditions as discussed further below.  Our total managed portfolio, net of unearned interest on pre-computed automobile contracts, was approximately $1,194.7 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $1,664.1 million at December 31, 2008, $2,162.2 million as of December 31, 2007 and $1,565.9 million as of December 31, 2006.     We are headquartered in Irvine, California, where most operational and administrative functions are centralized.  All credit and underwriting functions are performed in our California headquarters, and we service our automobile contracts from our California headquarters and from three servicing branches in Virginia, Florida and Illinois.     We purchase contracts in our own name (“CPS”) and, until July 2008, also in the name of our wholly-owned subsidiary, TFC.  Programs marketed under the CPS name are intended to serve a wide range of sub-prime customers, primarily through franchised new car dealers.  Our TFC program served vehicle purchasers enlisted in the U.S. Armed Forces, primarily through independent used car dealers.  In July 2008, we suspended contract purchases under our TFC program.     We purchase automobile contracts with the intention of financing them on a long-term basis through securitizations. Securitizations are transactions in which we sell a specified pool of contracts to a special purpose entity of ours, which in turn issues asset-backed securities to fund the purchase of the pool of contracts from us. Depending on the structure of the securitization, the transaction may be treated, for financial accounting purposes, as a sale of the contracts or as a secured financing.     Securitization and Warehouse Credit Facilities     Throughout the periods for which information is presented in this report, we have purchased automobile contracts with the intention of financing them on a long-term basis through securitizations, and on an interim basis through warehouse credit facilities.  All such financings have involved identification of specific automobile contracts, sale of those automobile contracts (and associated rights) to one of our special-purpose subsidiaries, and issuance of asset-backed securities to fund the transactions. Depending on the structure, these transactions may be accounted for under generally accepted accounting principles as sales of the automobile contracts or as secured financings.     When structured to be treated as a secured financing for accounting purposes, the subsidiary is consolidated with us. Accordingly, the sold automobile contracts and the related debt appear as assets and liabilities, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheet. We then periodically: (i) recognize interest and fee income on the contracts, (ii) recognize interest expense on the securities issued in the transaction, and (iii) record as expense a provision for credit losses on the contracts.  From July 2003 through April 2008, all of our securitizations were structured in this             26            manner. In September 2008, we securitized automobile contracts in a transaction that was in substance a sale, that was treated as a sale for accounting purposes, and in which we retained a residual interest in the automobile contracts.     When structured to be treated as a sale for accounting purposes, the assets and liabilities of the special-purpose subsidiary are not consolidated with us. Accordingly, the transaction removes the sold automobile contracts from our consolidated balance sheet, the related debt does not appear as our debt, and our consolidated balance sheet shows, as an asset, a retained residual interest in the sold automobile contracts. The residual interest represents the discounted value of what we expect will be the excess of future collections on the automobile contracts over principal and interest due on the asset-backed securities. That residual interest appears on our consolidated balance sheet as  " residual interest in securitizations, "  and the determination of its value is dependent on our estimates of the future performance of the sold automobile contracts.  Of our managed portfolio outstanding at December 31, 2009, only our September 2008 securitization was structured to be treated as a sale for accounting purposes.     Credit Risk Retained     Whether a sale of automobile contracts in connection with a securitization or warehouse credit facility is treated as a secured financing or as a sale for financial accounting purposes, the related special-purpose subsidiary may be unable to release excess cash to us if the credit performance of the related automobile contracts falls short of pre-determined standards. Such releases represent a material portion of the cash that we use to fund our operations.   An unexpected deterioration in the performance of such automobile contracts could therefore have a material adverse effect on both our liquidity and our results of operations, regardless of whether such automobile contracts are treated for financial accounting purposes as having been sold or as having been financed. For estimation of the magnitude of such risk, it may be appropriate to look to the size of our  " managed portfolio, "  which represents both financed and sold automobile contracts as to which such credit risk is retained. Our managed portfolio as of December 31, 2009 was approximately $1,194.7 million, which includes a third party servicing portfolio of $137.1 million on which we earn only servicing fees and have no credit risk.     Critical Accounting Policies     We believe that our accounting policies related to (a) Allowance for Finance Credit Losses, (b) Amortization of Deferred Originations Costs and Acquisition Fees, (c) Residual Interest in Securitizations and Gain on Sale of Automobile Contracts and (d) Income Taxes are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Such policies are described below.     Allowance for Finance Credit Losses     In order to estimate an appropriate allowance for losses to be incurred on finance receivables, we use a loss allowance methodology commonly referred to as  " static pooling, "  which stratifies our finance receivable portfolio into separately identified pools based on the period of origination. Using analytical and formula driven techniques, we estimate an allowance for finance credit losses, which we believe is adequate for probable credit losses that can be reasonably estimated in our portfolio of automobile contracts. Provision for losses is charged to our consolidated statement of operations. Net losses incurred on finance receivables are charged to the allowance. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance by examining current delinquencies, the characteristics of the portfolio, prospective liquidation values of the underlying collateral and general economic and market conditions. As circumstances change, our level of provisioning and/or allowance may change as well. We observed deterioration in performance of automobile contracts held in our portfolio during 2008 and 2009, which we attribute to a general recession that began in December 2007. Accordingly, we increased our provision for credit losses in the fourth quarter of 2009.     Amortization of Deferred Originations Costs and Acquisition Fees     Upon purchase of a contract from a dealer, we generally either charge or advance the dealer an acquisition fee.  In addition, we incur certain direct costs associated with originations of our contracts.  All such acquisition fees and direct costs are applied to the carrying value of finance receivables and are accreted into earnings as an adjustment to the yield over the estimated life of the contract using the interest method.     Term Securitizations     Our term securitization structure has generally been as follows:     We sell automobile contracts we acquire to a wholly-owned special purpose subsidiary, which has been established for the limited purpose of buying and reselling our automobile contracts. The special-purpose subsidiary then transfers the same automobile contracts to another entity, typically a statutory trust. The trust issues interest-            27            bearing asset-backed securities, in a principal amount equal to or less than the aggregate principal balance of the automobile contracts. We typically sell these automobile contracts to the trust at face value and without recourse, except that representations and warranties similar to those provided by the dealer to us are provided by us to the trust. One or more investors purchase the asset-backed securities issued by the trust; the proceeds from the sale of the asset-backed securities are then used to purchase the automobile contracts from us. We may retain or sell subordinated asset-backed securities issued by the trust or by a related entity. Historically we have purchased external credit enhancement for most of our term securitizations in the form of a financial guaranty insurance policy, guaranteeing timely payment of interest and ultimate payment of principal on the senior asset-backed securities, from an insurance company. In addition, we structure our securitizations to include internal credit enhancement for the benefit of the insurance company and the investors (i) in the form of an initial cash deposit to an account ( " spread account " ) held by the trust, (ii) in the form of overcollateralization of the senior asset-backed securities, where the principal balance of the senior asset-backed securities issued is less than the principal balance of the automobile contracts, (iii) in the form of subordinated asset-backed securities, or (iv) some combination of such internal credit enhancements. The agreements governing the securitization transactions require that the initial level of internal credit enhancement be supplemented by a portion of collections from the automobile contracts until the level of internal credit enhancement reaches specified levels, which are then maintained. The specified levels are generally computed as a percentage of the principal amount remaining unpaid under the related automobile contracts. The specified levels at which the internal credit enhancement is to be maintained will vary depending on the performance of the portfolios of automobile contracts held by the trusts and on other conditions, and may also be varied by agreement among us, our special purpose subsidiary, the insurance company and the trustee. Such levels have increased and decreased from time to time based on performance of the various portfolios, and have also varied from one transaction to another. The agreements governing the securitizations generally grant us the option to repurchase the sold automobile contracts from the trust when the aggregate outstanding balance of the automobile contracts has amortized to a specified percentage of the initial aggregate balance.     Our September 2008 securitization was in substance a sale of the underlying receivables, and is treated as a sale for financial accounting purposes. It differs from those treated as secured financings in that the trust to which our special-purpose subsidiaries sold the automobile contracts met the definition of a  " qualified special-purpose entity "  under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 140 ( " SFAS 140 " )  (ASC 860 10 65-2) . As a result, assets and liabilities of those trusts are not consolidated into our consolidated balance sheet.     Historically, our warehouse credit facility structures were similar to the above, except that (i) our special-purpose subsidiaries that purchased the automobile contracts pledged the automobile contracts to secure promissory notes that they issued, (ii) no increase in the required amount of internal credit enhancement was contemplated, and (iii) we did not purchase financial guaranty insurance.  Through November 2008, we depended substantially on two warehouse credit facilities: (i) a $200 million warehouse credit facility, which we established in November 2005 and expired by its terms in November 2008; and (ii) a $200 million warehouse credit facility, which we established in June 2004 and which was amended in December 2008 to eliminate future advances and to provide for repayment of the related notes from the cash collections on the underlying pledged contracts, and certain other principal reductions until it was fully repaid in September 2009.  In September 2009 we entered into a new $50 million credit facility which provides for advances on newly acquired receivables as well as receivables we originated prior to Septemer 2009.     Upon each sale of automobile contracts in a transaction structured as a secured financing for financial accounting purposes, whether a term securitization or a warehouse financing, we retain on our consolidated balance sheet the related automobile contracts as assets and record the asset-backed notes issued in the transaction as indebtedness.     Under the September 2008 securitization and other term securitizations completed prior to July 2003 that were structured as sales for financial accounting purposes, we removed from our consolidated balance sheet the automobile contracts sold and added to our consolidated balance sheet (i) the cash received, if any, and (ii) the estimated fair value of the ownership interest that we retained in the automobile contracts sold in the transaction. That retained or residual interest consisted of (a) the cash held in the spread account, if any, (b) overcollateralization, if any, (c) asset-backed securities retained, if any, and (d) receivables from the trust, which include the net interest receivables.  Net interest receivables represent the estimated discounted cash flows to be received from the trust in the future, net of principal and interest payable with respect to the asset-backed notes, the premium paid to the insurance company, if any, and certain other expenses. The excess of the cash received and the assets we retained over the carrying value of the automobile contracts sold, less transaction costs, equaled the net gain on sale of automobile contracts we recorded.            28            We receive periodic base servicing fees for the servicing and collection of the automobile contracts. Under our securitization structures treated as secured financings for financial accounting purposes, such servicing fees are included in interest income from the automobile contracts. In addition, we are entitled to the cash flows from the trusts that represent collections on the automobile contracts in excess of the amounts required to pay principal and interest on the asset-backed securities, base servicing fees, and certain other fees and expenses (such as trustee and custodial fees). Required principal payments on the asset-backed notes are generally defined as the payments sufficient to keep the principal balance of such notes equal to the aggregate principal balance of the related automobile contracts (excluding those automobile contracts that have been charged off), or a pre-determined percentage of such balance. Where that percentage is less than 100%, the related securitization agreements require accelerated payment of principal until the principal balance of the asset-backed securities is reduced to the specified percentage. Such accelerated principal payment is said to create overcollateralization of the asset-backed notes.     If the amount of cash required for payment of fees, expenses, interest and principal on the senior asset-backed notes exceeds the amount collected during the collection period, the shortfall is withdrawn from the spread account, if any. If the cash collected during the period exceeds the amount necessary for the above allocations plus required principal payments on the subordinated asset-backed notes, and there is no shortfall in the related spread account or the required overcollateralization level, the excess is released to us. If the spread account and overcollateralization is not at the required level, then the excess cash collected is retained in the trust until the specified level is achieved. Although spread account balances are held by the trusts on behalf of our special-purpose subsidiaries as the owner of the residual interests (in the case of securitization transactions structured as sales for financial accounting purposes) or the trusts (in the case of securitization transactions structured as secured financings for financial accounting purposes), we are restricted in use of the cash in the spread accounts. Cash held in the various spread accounts is invested in high quality, liquid investment securities, as specified in the securitization agreements. The interest rate payable on the automobile contracts is significantly greater than the interest rate on the asset-backed notes. As a result, the residual interests described above historically have been a significant asset of ours.     In all of our term securitizations and warehouse credit facilities, whether treated as secured financings or as sales, we have sold the automobile contracts (through a subsidiary) to the securitization entity. The difference between the two structures is that in securitizations that are treated as secured financings we report the assets and liabilities of the securitization trust on our consolidated balance sheet. Under both structures, recourse to us by holders of the asset-backed securities and by the trust, for failure of the automobile contract obligors to make payments on a timely basis, is limited to the automobile contracts included in the securitizations or warehouse credit facilities, the spread accounts and our retained interests in the respective trusts.     Since the third quarter of 2003, we have conducted 24 term securitizations. Of these 24, 19 were periodic (generally quarterly) securitizations of automobile contracts that we purchased from automobile dealers under our regular programs. In addition, in March 2004 and November 2005, we completed securitizations of our retained interests in other securitizations that we and our affiliates previously sponsored. The debt from the March 2004 transaction was repaid in August 2005, and the debt from the November 2005 transaction was repaid in May 2007. Also, in June 2004, we completed a securitization of automobile contracts purchased in the SeaWest asset acquisition and under our TFC programs. Further, in December 2005 and May 2007 we completed securitizations that included automobile contracts purchased under the TFC programs, automobile contracts purchased under the CPS programs and automobile contracts we repurchased upon termination of prior securitizations of our MFN and TFC subsidiaries.  Since July 2003 all such securitizations have been structured as secured financings, except that our September 2008 securitization was in substance a sale of the underlying receivables, and is treated as a sale for financial accounting purposes     Income Taxes     We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.  The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management’s judgment that realization is more likely than not.  Although realization is not assured, we believe that the realization of the recognized net deferred tax asset of $33.5 million is more likely than not based on available tax planning strategies that could be implemented if necessary to prevent a carryforward from expiring. Our net deferred tax asset of $33.5 million is net of a valuation allowance of $28.6 million and consists of approximately $30.2 million of net U.S. federal             29            deferred tax assets and $3.3 million of net state deferred tax assets.  The major components of the deferred tax asset are $19.6 million in net operating loss carryforwards and built in losses and $13.9 million in net deductions which have not yet been taken on a tax return. We estimate that we would need to generate approximately $89 million of taxable income during the applicable carryforward periods to realize fully our federal and state deferred tax assets.     As a result of the losses incurred in 2009, we are in a three-year cumulative pretax loss position at December 31, 2009. A cumulative loss position is considered significant negative evidence in assessing the realizability of a deferred tax asset. However, we have concluded that there is sufficient positive evidence to overcome this negative evidence.  First, we recognized a $14.0 million loss on the September 2008 securitization that was structured as a sale for financial accounting purposes.  Since our inception in 1991, we have completed 49 securitizations of approximately $6.6 billion in contracts and have never recognized a loss until the September 2008 securitization.  We view this securitization as an anomaly created by the unusual and adverse market conditions at the time.  Moreover, from 2003 through 2007, we generated approximately $107.0 million in taxable income.      Based upon the foregoing discussion, as well as tax planning opportunities and other factors discussed below, we have concluded that the U.S. and state net operating loss carryforward periods provide enough time to utilize the deferred tax assets pertaining to the existing net operating loss carryforwards and any net operating loss that would be created by the reversal of the future net deductions which have not yet been taken on a tax return. Regarding the estimate of future taxable income, we have projected pretax earnings based upon our core business that we intend to conduct going forward. Our core business has produced strong earnings in the past, even with intermittent loss periods resulting from economic cycles not unlike, although not as severe as, the current economic downturn.  We have already taken steps to reduce our cost structure and have adjusted the contract interest rates and purchase prices applicable to our purchases of automobile contracts from dealers. We have been able to increase our acquisition fees and reduce our purchase prices because of lessened competition for our services. Taking these items into account, we project generating sufficient pretax earnings within the carryforward period to realize our deferred tax assets.  We have also examined tax planning strategies available to us in  accordance with SFAS 109 (FASB ASC 740, “Income Taxes”) which would be employed, if necessary, to prevent a carryforward from expiring.   These strategies include the sale of certain assets that can produce significant taxable income within the relevant carryforward period. Such strategies could be implemented without significant impact on our core business or our ability to generate future growth. 0;The costs related to the implementation of these tax strategies were considered in evaluating the amount of taxable income that could be generated in order to realize our deferred tax assets.   Our projection of sufficient earnings is a forward-looking statement, and there can be no assurance that our projections of such earnings will be correct. Factors discussed under "Risk Factors," and in particular under the subheading "Risk Factors -- Forward-Looking Statements" may affect whether such projections prove to be correct.     We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the income tax expense line in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.  Accrued interest and penalties are included within the related tax liability line in the consolidated balance sheet.     Uncertainty of Capital Markets and General Economic Conditions     Historically, we have depended upon the availability of warehouse credit facilities and access to long-term financing through the issuance of asset-backed securities collateralized by our automobile contracts. Since 1994, we have completed 49 term securitizations of approximately $6.6 billion in contracts. We conducted four term securitizations in 2006, four in 2007, and two in 2008. From July 2003 through April 2008 all of our securitizations were structured as secured financings.  The second of our two securitization transactions in 2008 (completed in September 2008) was in substance a sale of the related contracts, and is treated as a sale for financial accounting purposes.    Since the fourth quarter of 2007, we have observed unprecedented adverse changes in the market for securitized pools of automobile contracts. These changes include reduced liquidity, and reduced demand for asset-backed securities, particularly for securities carrying a financial guaranty and for securities backed by sub-prime automobile receivables. Moreover, many of the firms that previously provided financial guarantees, which were an integral part of our securitizations, are no longer offering such guarantees.  As of December 31, 2009, we have one available $50 million credit facility but no immediate plans to complete a term securitization.  The adverse changes that have taken place in the market over the last 30 months have caused us to seek to conserve liquidity by reducing our purchases of automobile contracts to nominal levels. If the current adverse circumstances that have affected the             30            capital markets should continue or worsen, we may curtail further or cease our purchases of new automobile contracts, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our operations.     Current economic conditions have negatively affected many aspects of our industry.  First, as stated above, there is reduced demand for asset-backed securities secured by consumer finance receivables, including sub-prime automobile receivables than prior to 2008.  Second, there are fewer lenders who provide short term warehouse financing for sub-prime automobile finance companies such as ours due to the uncertainty regarding the prospects of obtaining long-term financing through the issuance of asset-backed securities.  In addition, many capital market participants such as investment banks, financial guaranty providers and institutional investors who previously played a role in the sub-prime auto finance industry have withdrawn from the industry, or in some cases, have ceased to do business.  Finally, broad economic weakness and increasing unemployment in 2008 and 2009 made many of our customers less willing or able to pay, resulting in higher delinquency, charge-offs and losses.  Each of these factors has adversely affected our results of operations.  Should existing economic conditions worsen, both our ability to purchase new contracts and the performance of our existing managed portfolio may be impaired, which, in turn, could have a further material adverse effect on our results of operations.     Results of Operations     Comparison of Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2009 with the Year Ended December 31, 2008     Revenues .  During the year ended December 31, 2009, revenues were $223.9 million, a decrease of $144.5 million, or 39.2%, from the prior year revenue of $368.4 million. The primary reason for the decrease in revenues is a decrease in interest income. Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $143.4 million, or 40.8%, to $208.2 million from $351.6 million in the prior year. The primary reason for the decrease in interest income is the decrease in finance receivables held by consolidated subsidiaries.  At December 31, 2009 the aggregate outstanding balance of finance receivables held by consolidated subsidiaries was $922.7 million compared to $1,477.8 million at December 31, 2008, resulting in a decrease of $143.4 million in interest income.  We also experienced a decrease in interest earned on cash deposits (including restricted cash deposits) of $3.4 million, which was partially offset by an increase in interest income on our residual interest in securitizations of $770,000.     Servicing fees totaling $4.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $2.5, or 124.8%, from $2.1 million in the prior year. The increase in servicing fees is the result our September 2008 securitization that was structured as a sale for financial accounting purposes and on which we earn a base servicing fee and our appointment in November 2009 as a third-party servicer for a $147 million portfolio of sub-prime automobile receivables previously originated by another company.  As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our managed portfolio owned by consolidated vs. non-consolidated subsidiaries and other third parties was as follows:              December 31, 2009          December 31, 2008               Amount          %          Amount          %           Total Managed Portfolio    ($ in millions)           Owned by Consolidated Subsidiaries   $   922.7           77.2  %     $  1,477.8           88.8  %       Owned by Non-Consolidated Subsidiaries      134.9           11.3  %        186.2           11.2  %       Third-Party Servicing Portfolios      137.1           11.5  %        0.1           0.0  %       Total   $   1,194.7           100.0  %     $  1,664.1           100.0  %           At December 31, 2009, we were generating income and fees on a managed portfolio with an outstanding principal balance of $1,194.7 million compared to a managed portfolio with an outstanding principal balance of $1,664.1 million as of December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the managed portfolio composition was as follows:            December 31, 2009        December 31, 2008              Amount          %          Amount          %           Originating Entity    ($ in millions)           CPS   $   1,034.2           86.6  %     $   1,619.7           97.3  %       TFC      23.4           2.0  %        44.3           2.7  %       Third-Party Servicing Portfolios      137.1           11.4  %        0.1           0.0  %       Total   $   1,194.7           100.0  %     $   1,664.1           100.0  %                31                 Other income decreased $3.7 million, or 25.3%, to $11.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 from $14.8 million during the prior year.  The year-over-year decrease is the result of a variety of factors including a decrease of $1.5 million in convenience fees charged to our customers for web-based and other electronic payments and a decrease of $2.2 million in income from direct mail and related products and services that we offer to our dealers.     Expenses .  Our operating expenses consist primarily of provisions for credit losses, interest expense, employee costs and general and administrative expenses.  Provisions for credit losses and interest expense are significantly affected by the volume of automobile contracts we purchased during a period and by the outstanding balance of finance receivables held by consolidated subsidiaries.  Employee costs and general and administrative expenses are incurred as applications and automobile contracts are received, processed and serviced. Factors that affect margins and net income include changes in the automobile and automobile finance market environments, and macroeconomic factors such as interest rates and the unemployment level.     Employee costs include base salaries, commissions and bonuses paid to employees, and certain expenses related to the accounting treatment of outstanding warrants and stock options, and are one of our most significant operating expenses. These costs (other than those relating to stock options) generally fluctuate with the level of applications and automobile contracts processed and serviced.     Other operating expenses consist primarily of facilities expenses, telephone and other communication services, credit services, computer services, marketing and advertising expenses, and depreciation and amortization.     Total operating expenses were $273.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $411.9 million for the prior year, a decrease of $138.6 million, or 33.6%. The decrease is primarily due to decreases in provision for credit losses and interest expense, which decreased by $56.4 million and $44.5 million, or 38.0% and 28.5%, respectively.     Employee costs decreased by 23.7% to $37.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2009, representing 13.7% of total operating expenses, from $48.9 million for the prior year, or 11.9% of total operating expenses.  The decrease in employee costs is due to the reduction in our workforce, primarily in the areas of contract originations and marketing, throughout both 2008 and 2009 as a result of our strategy to reduce our purchases of contracts to conserve our liquidity.   As of December 31, 2009 we had 523 employees, compared to 681 employees at December 31, 2008.     General and administrative expenses decreased by 18.0% to $24.2 million and represented 8.9% of total operating expenses in the year ending December 31, 2009, as compared to the prior year when such expenses represented 7.2% of total operating expenses. General and administrative expenses include telecommunications costs, postage and delivery costs and other costs associated with servicing our managed portfolio.     Provision for credit losses was $92.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $56.4 million, or 38%, compared to the prior year and represented 36.0% of total operating expenses.  The provision for credit losses maintains the allowance for loan losses at levels that we feel are adequate for the probable credit losses that can be reasonably estimated.  The decrease in provision expense compared to the prior year is caused by the decrease in the size of our portfolio of finance receivables and also the significant decrease in new contract purchases in the current period compared to the prior period.     Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $44.5 million, or 28.5%, to $111.8 million, compared to $156.3 million in the previous year. The decrease is primarily the result of changes in the amount and composition of securitization trust debt carried on our consolidated balance sheet. Interest on securitization trust debt decreased by $35.5 million in 2009 compared to the prior year.  We also experienced decreases in warehouse debt interest expense and residual interest financing interest expenses of $9.5 million and $1.9 million, respectively.  Decreases in interest expense for securitization debt, warehouse debt and residual interest debt were partially offset by an increase of $2.5 million in interest expense on subordinated debt. In June and July 2008 and November 2009 we issued $10 million, $15 million and $5 million, respectively, in new senior secured debt.     Marketing expenses consist primarily of commission-based compensation paid to our employee marketing representatives.  These expenses decreased by $6.4 million, or 63.0%, to $3.8 million, compared to $10.2 million in the previous year and represented 1.4% of total operating expenses. The decrease is primarily due to the decrease in automobile contracts we purchased during the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the prior year.  During the year ended December 31, 2009, we purchased 595 automobile contracts aggregating $8.6 million, compared to 19,772 automobile contracts aggregating $296.8 million in the prior year.            32            Occupancy expenses decreased by $580,000 or 14.1%, to $3.5 million compared to $4.1 million in the previous year and represented 1.3% of total operating expenses.  The reduction in occupancy expense is primarily attributable to the amendment in July 2009 of the lease for our Irvine headquarters to reduce our square footage from approximately 90,000 to approximately 60,000 square feet.     Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $170,000, or 31.6%, to $707,000 from $537,000 in the previous year.     For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of $19.2 million or 40.0% of loss before income taxes.  The benefit was offset by an increase of $27.0 to our valuation allowance for deferred taxes.  For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded income tax benefit of $17.4 million.        Liquidity and Capital Resources     Liquidity     Our business requires substantial cash to support purchases of automobile contracts and other operating activities. Our  primary sources of cash have been cash flows from operating activities, including proceeds from term securitization transactions and other sales of automobile contracts, amounts borrowed under warehouse credit facilities, servicing fees on portfolios of automobile contracts previously sold in securitization transactions or serviced for third parties, customer payments of principal and interest on finance receivables, fees for origination of automobile contracts, and releases of cash from securitized portfolios of automobile contracts in which we have retained a residual ownership interest and from the spread accounts associated with such pools. Our primary uses of cash have been the purchases of automobile contracts, repayment of amounts borrowed under warehouse credit facilities and otherwise, operating expenses such as employee, interest, occupancy expenses and other general and administrative expenses, the establishment of spread accounts and initial overcollateralization, if any, and the increase of credit enhancement to required levels in securitization transactions, and income taxes. There can be no assurance that internally generated cash will be sufficient to meet our cash demands. The sufficiency of internally generated cash will depend on the performance of securitized pools (which determines the level of releases from those portfolios and their related spread accounts), the rate of expansion or contraction in our managed portfolio, and the terms upon which we are able to purchase, sell, and borrow against automobile contracts.     Net cash provided by operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $79.5 million and $124.9 million, respectively.      Net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $438.7 million compared to $657.6 million in 2008. Cash provided by investing activities primarily results from principal payments and other proceeds received on finance receivables held for investment.  Cash used in investing activities generally relates to purchases of automobile contracts. Purchases of finance receivables held for investment were $8.6 million and $296.8 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively.  The significant decrease in contract purchases in 2008 and 2009 compared to prior periods together with ongoing significant proceeds received on finance receivables held for investment resulted in net cash provided by investing activities in 2008 and 2009 compared to net cash used by investing activities in prior periods.     Net cash used by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $527.8 million compared with $781.4 million in 2008. Cash used or provided by financing activities is primarily attributable to the issuance or repayment of debt, and in particular, securitization trust debt. We did not complete any new securitizations in 2009 compared to new issuances of $285.4 million in 2008.  Repayments of securitization debt were $511.0 million and $693.3 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively.     We purchase automobile contracts from dealers for a cash price approximating their principal amount, adjusted for an acquisition fee which may either increase or decrease the automobile contract purchase price. Those automobile contracts generate cash flow, however, over a period of years. As a result, we have been dependent on warehouse credit facilities to purchase automobile contracts, and on the availability of cash from outside sources in order to finance our continuing operations, as well as to fund the portion of automobile contract purchase prices not financed under revolving warehouse credit facilities. At December 31, 2007, we had $425 million in warehouse credit capacity, consisting of two $200 million senior facilities, and one $25 million subordinated facility.  One $200 million facility provided funding for automobile contracts purchased under the TFC programs while both warehouse facilities provided funding for automobile contracts purchased under the CPS programs. The subordinated facility was established on January 12, 2007 and expired by its terms in April 2008.            33            The first of two warehouse facilities mentioned above was provided by an affiliate of Bear, Stearns and was structured to allow us to fund a portion of the purchase price of automobile contracts by drawing against a floating rate variable funding note issued by our consolidated subsidiary Page Three Funding, LLC. This facility was established on November 15, 2005, and expired on November 6, 2008.  On November 8, 2006 the facility was increased from $150 million to $200 million and the maximum advance rate was increased to 83% from 80% of eligible contracts, subject to collateral tests and certain other conditions and covenants. On January 12, 2007 the facility was amended to allow for the issuance of subordinated notes resulting in an increase of the maximum advance rate to 93%.  The advance rate was subject to the lender’s valuation of the collateral which, in turn, was affected by factors such as the credit performance of our managed portfolio and the terms and conditions of our term securitizations, including the expected yields required for bonds issued in our term securitizations.     The second of two warehouse facilities was provided by an affiliate of UBS AG and was similarly structured to allow us to fund a portion of the purchase price of automobile contracts by drawing against a floating rate variable funding note issued by our consolidated subsidiary Page Funding LLC.  This facility was entered into on June 30, 2004. On June 29, 2005 the facility was increased from $100 million to $125 million and further amended to provide for funding for automobile contracts purchased under the TFC programs, in addition to our CPS programs.  The available credit under the facility was increased again to $200 million on August 31, 2005. In April 2006, the terms of this facility were amended to allow advances to us of up to 80% of the principal balance of automobile contracts that we purchase under our CPS programs, and of up to 70% of the principal balance of automobile contracts that we purchase under our TFC programs, in all events subject to collateral tests and certain other conditions and covenants.  On June 30, 2006, the terms of this facility were amended to allow advances to us of up to 83% of the principal balance of automobile contracts that we purchase under our CPS programs, in all events subject to collateral tests and certain other conditions and covenants. In February 2007 the facility was further amended to allow for the issuance of subordinated notes resulting in an increase of the maximum advance rate to 93%.  The advance rate was subject to the lender’s valuation of the collateral which, in turn, was affected by factors such as the credit performance of our managed portfolio and the terms and conditions of our term securitizations, including the expected yields for bonds issued in our term securitizations.  The facility was amended in December 2008 which eliminated future advances and provided for repayment of the notes from proceeds collected on the underlying pledged receivables, plus certain future scheduled principal reductions until its maturity in September 2009 when it was repaid in full.     On September 25, 2009 we established a $50 million secured revolving credit facility with Fortress Credit Corp. that will mature on September 25, 2011.  The facility is structured to allow us to fund a portion of the purchase price of automobile contracts by drawing against a floating rate variable funding note issued by our consolidated subsidiary Page Four Funding, LLC.  The facility provides for advances up to 75% of eligible finance receivables and the notes under it accrue interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus 12.00% per annum, with a minimum rate of 14.00% per annum.  At December 31, 2009, $4.9 million was outstanding under this facility.   As part of the consideration given to Fortress for committing to make loans under this facility, we issued a 10-year warrant to purchase up to 1,158,087 of our common shares, at an exercise price of $0.879 per share (we refer to this as the Fortress Warrant).  Issuance of the Fortress Warrant required an adjustment to the terms of an existing outstanding warrant regarding 1,564,324 shares, reducing the exercise price of that other warrant from $1.44 per share to $1.40702 per share and increasing the number of shares available for purchase to 1,600,991.     Subsequent to the reporting period covered by this report, on March 25, 2010 we entered into an additional $50 million funding facility.  This new facility provides for advances of up to 75% of the principal balance of the eligible pledged finance receivables and the notes under it accrue interest at a rate of 11.0% per annum.     We securitized $509.0 million in auto contracts in two private placement transactions in 2008 as compared to $1,118.1 million of automobile contracts in four private placement transactions during 2007.  All but one of these transactions were structured as secured financings and, therefore, resulted in no gain or loss on sale.  The September 2008 transaction was structured as a sale for financial accounting purposes and resulted in a loss on sale of $14.0 million.     In July 2007, we established a combination term and revolving residual credit facility and have used eligible residual interests in securitizations as collateral for floating rate borrowings.  The amount that we were able to borrow was computed using an agreed valuation methodology of the residuals, subject to an overall maximum principal amount of $120 million, represented by (i) a $60 million Class A-1 variable funding note (the “revolving note”), and (ii) a $60 million Class A-2 term note (the “term note”).  The term note was fully drawn in July 2007 and was originally due in July 2009.  As of July 2008, we had drawn $26.8 million on the revolving note.  The facility’s             34            revolving feature expired in July 2008.  On July 10, 2008 we amended the terms of the combination term and revolving residual credit facility, (i) eliminating the revolving feature and increasing the interest rate, (ii) consolidating the amounts then owing on the Class A-1 note with the Class A-2 note, (iii) establishing an amortization schedule for principal reductions on the Class A-2 note, and (iv) providing for an extension, at our option if certain conditions were met, of the Class A-2 note maturity from June 2009 to June 2010.  In June 2009 we met all such conditions and extended the maturity.  In conjunction with the amendment, we reduced the principal amount outstanding to $70 million by delivering to the lender (i) warrants valued as being equivalent to 2,500,000 common shares, or $4,071,429, and (ii) cash of $12,765,244.  The warrants represent the right to purchase 2,500,000 CPS common shares at a nominal exercise price, at any time prior to July 10, 2018.  As of December 31, 2009 the aggregate indebtedness under this facility was $56.9 million.     On June 30, 2008, we entered into a series of agreements pursuant to which a lender purchased a $10 million five-year, fixed rate, senior secured note from us.  The indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets, though not by the assets of our special-purpose financing subsidiaries.  In July 2008, in conjunction with the amendment of the combination term and revolving residual credit facility as discussed above, the lender purchased an additional $15 million note with substantially the same terms as the $10 million note.  Pursuant to the June 30, 2008 securities purchase agreement, we issued to the lender 1,225,000 shares of common stock.  In addition, we issued the lender two warrants: (i) warrants that we refer to as the FMV Warrants, which are exercisable for 1,600,991 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $1.40702 per share, and (ii) warrants that we refer to as the N Warrants, which are exercisable for 283,985 shares of our common stock, at a nominal exercise price. Both the FMV Warrants and the N Warrants are exercisable in whole or in part and at any time up to and including June 30, 2018.  We valued the warrants using the Black-Scholes valuation model and recorded their value as a liability on our balance sheet because the terms of the warrants also included a provision whereby the lender could require us to purchase the warrants for cash. That provision was eliminated by mutual agreement in September 2008.   The FMV Warrants were initially exercisable to purchase 1,500,000 shares for $2.573 per share, were adjusted in connection with the July 2008 issuance of other warrants to become exercisable to purchase 1,564,324 shares at $2.4672 per share, and were further adjusted in connection with a July 2009 amendment of our option plan to become exercisable at $1.44 per share.  Upon issuance in September 2009 of the Fortress Warrant, the FMV Warrant was further adjusted to become exercisable to purchase 1,600,991 shares at an exercise price of $1.40702 per share.   In November 2009 we entered into an additional agreement with this lender whereby they purchased an additional $5 million note.  The note accrues interest at 15.0% and matures in October 2010 unless we fail to extend the maturity date of the above-mentioned residual credit facility, in which case the note matures in May 2010.     The acquisition of automobile contracts for subsequent sale in securitization transactions, and the need to fund spread accounts and initial overcollateralization, if any, and increase credit enhancement levels when those transactions take place, results in a continuing need for capital. The amount of capital required is most heavily dependent on the rate of our automobile contract purchases, the required level of initial credit enhancement in securitizations, and the extent to which the previously established trusts and their related spread accounts either release cash to us or capture cash from collections on securitized automobile contracts. Of those, the factor most subject to our control is the rate at which we purchase automobile contracts.     We are and may in the future be limited in our ability to purchase automobile contracts due to limits on our capital.  As of December 31, 2009, we had unrestricted cash of $12.4 million, one $50 million revolving credit facility and no immediate plans to complete a securitization.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional warehouse financing or to complete securitizations on favorable economic terms or that we will be able to complete securitizations at all. If we are unable to complete such securitizations, we may be unable to increase our rate of automobile contract purchases, in which case our interest income and other portfolio related income would decrease.     Our liquidity will also be affected by releases of cash from the trusts established with our securitizations.  While the specific terms and mechanics of each spread account vary among transactions, our securitization agreements generally provide that we will receive excess cash flows, if any, only if the amount of credit enhancement has reached specified levels and/or the delinquency, defaults or net losses related to the automobile contracts in the pool are below certain predetermined levels. In the event delinquencies, defaults or net losses on the automobile contracts exceed such levels, the terms of the securitization: (i) may require increased credit enhancement to be accumulated for the particular pool; (ii) may restrict the distribution to us of excess cash flows associated with other pools; or (iii) in certain circumstances, may permit the insurers to require the transfer of servicing on some or all of the automobile contracts to another servicer. There can be no assurance that collections from the related trusts will continue to generate sufficient cash.   Moreover, most of our spread account balances are pledged as collateral to our residual             35            interest financing.  As such, most of the current releases of cash from our securitization trusts are directed to pay the obligations of our residual interest financing.     Certain of our securitization transactions and our warehouse credit facility contain various financial covenants requiring certain minimum financial ratios and results. Such covenants include maintaining minimum levels of liquidity and net worth and not exceeding maximum leverage levels and maximum financial losses. In addition, certain securitization and non-securitization related debt contain cross-default provisions that would allow certain creditors to declare a default if a default occurred under a different facility.     The agreements under which we receive periodic fees for servicing automobile contracts in securitizations are terminable by the respective insurance companies upon defined events of default, and, in some cases, at the will of the insurance company.  We have received waivers regarding the potential breach of certain such covenants relating to minimum net worth, financial loss in any one period and maintenance of active warehouse credit facilities.  Without such waivers, certain credit enhancement providers would have had the right to terminate us as servicer with respect to certain of our outstanding securitization pools.  Although such rights have been waived, such waivers are temporary, and there can be no assurance as to their future extension. We do, however, believe that we will obtain such future extensions because it is generally not in the interest of any party to the securitization transaction to transfer servicing.  Nevertheless, there can be no assurance as to our belief being correct.  Were an insurance company in the future to exercise its option to terminate such agreements, such a termination could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations, depending on the number and value of the terminated agreements. Our note insurers continue to extend our term as servicer on a monthly and/or quarterly basis, pursuant to the servicing agreements.     The agreements for our residual interest financing and revolving credit facility include financial covenants which, if breached, would be an event of default.  We have received waivers regarding the potential breach of minimum net worth covenants on both the revolving credit and residual interest facilities.  Without such waiver, the revolving credit lender could cease funding future advances and could, among other things, sell the finance receivables pledged to that facility in order satisfy the debt or transfer the servicing on such receivables.  Similarly, without such waiver, the residual interest lender could, among other things, sell the residual interests in the pledged securitizations to satisfy the residual interest debt.     Our plan for future operations and meeting the obligations of our financing arrangements includes returning to profitability by gradually increasing the amount of our contract purchases with the goal of increasing the balance of our outstanding managed portfolio.  Our plans also include financing future contract purchases with credit facilities that offer a lower overall cost of funds compared to our current facility.  To illustrate, in the fourth quarter of 2009 we originated $6.1 million in contracts and our only credit facility had a minimum interest rate of 14.00% per annum.  By comparison, in the first quarter of 2010, we originated $17.1 million in contracts and on March 25, 2010 we entered into an additional $50 million funding facility with an interest rate of 11.00% per annum.  Moreover, less competition in our marketplace has resulted in better terms for our contract purchases in 2009 compared to prior years. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the average acquisition fee we charged per automobile contract purchased under our CPS programs was $1,508, $592 and $209, respectively, or 11.7%, 3.9% and 1.4%, respectively, of the amount financed.  Similarly, the weighted average annual percentage rate of interest payable to us by the obligors on our purchased contracts has increased significantly: to 19.9% in 2009 from 18.5%, and 18.1% in 2008 and 2007, respectively.     We have and will continue to have a substantial amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1,014.8 million of debt outstanding. Such debt consisted primarily of $904.8 million of securitization trust debt, and also included $4.9 million of warehouse lines of credit, $56.9 million of residual interest financing, $26.1 million of senior secured related party debt and $22.0 million owed under a subordinated notes program.  We are also currently offering the subordinated notes to the public on a continuous basis, and such notes have maturities that range from three months to 10 years.  The residual interest financing facility matures in June 2010 and we are in discussions with the lender regarding the extension or restructuring of the facility, as to which there can be no assurance.  Of the $26.1 million in senior secured related party debt, $5.0 million matures in October 2010, unless we fail to extend the maturity of the residual credit facility, in which case it matures in May 2010.     Our recent operating results include net losses of $57.2 million and $26.1 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively.  We believe that our results have been materially and adversely affected by the disruption in the capital markets that began in the fourth quarter of 2007, by the recession that began in December 2007, and by related high levels of unemployment.  Our ability to repay or refinance maturing debt may be adversely affected by prospective lenders’ consideration of our recent operating losses.     Although we believe we are able to service and repay our debt, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. If our plans for future operations do not generate sufficient cash flows and operating profits, our ability to make required payments on our debt would be impaired. Failure to pay our indebtedness when due could have a material adverse effect and may require us to issue additional debt or equity securities.          Contractual Obligations     The following table summarizes our material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands):         Payment Due by Period (1)                       Less than          1 to 3          4 to 5          More than            Total          1 Year          Years          Years          5 Years        Long Term Debt (2)      $  105,013        $  75,113        $  8,087        $  21,671        $  142       Operating Leases      $  16,155        $  3,129        $  5,474        $  4,370        $  3,182             (1)    Securitization trust debt, in the aggregate amount of $904.8 million as of December 31, 2009, is omitted from this table because it becomes due as and when the related receivables balance is reduced by payments and charge-offs. Expected payments, which will depend on the performance of such receivables, as to which there can be no assurance, are $500.3 million in 2010, $276.1 million in 2011, $107.7 million in 2012 and $20.7 million in 2013.           (2)    Long-term debt includes residual interest debt, senior secured debt and subordinated renewable notes.           Warehouse Credit Facilities     The terms on which credit has been available to us for purchase of automobile contracts have varied in recent years, as shown in the following summary of our warehouse credit facilities:     Facility in Use from June 2004 to September 2009 .  In June 2004, we (through our subsidiary Page Funding LLC) entered into a floating rate variable note purchase facility.  From the third quarter of 2005 until the fourth quarter of 2008 up to $200.0 million of borrowing capacity was available under this facility, subject to certain collateral tests and other conditions. We used funds derived from this facility to purchase automobile contracts under the CPS             36            programs and TFC programs, which were pledged to secure the notes. The collateral tests and other conditions generally allowed us to borrow up to approximately 93% of the principal balance of automobile contracts that we purchased under our CPS programs (up to 83.0% in the form of senior notes and the remainder in the form of subordinated notes), and of up to 70% of the principal balance of automobile contracts that we purchased under our TFC programs. The advance rate was subject to the lender’s valuation of the collateral which, in turn, was affected by factors such as the credit performance of our managed portfolio and the terms and conditions of our term securitizations, including the expected yields required for bonds issued in our term securitizations.  The facility was amended in December 2008 which eliminated future advances and provided for repayment of the notes from proceeds collected on the underlying pledged receivables, plus certain future scheduled principal reductions until its maturity in September 2009.  The balance of notes outstanding related to this facility was repaid in full in September 2009.     Facility in Use from November 2005 to November 2008 .  In November 2005, we (through our subsidiary Page Three Funding LLC) entered into a floating rate variable note purchase facility.  From the fourth quarter of 2006 to the third quarter of 2008 up to $200 million of borrowing capacity was available under this facility, subject to certain collateral tests and other conditions.  We used funds derived from this facility to purchase automobile contracts under the CPS programs, which were pledged to secure the notes.  The collateral tests and other conditions generally allowed us to borrow up to approximately 93.0% of the principal balance of the automobile contracts (up to 83.0% in the form of senior notes and the remainder in the form of subordinated notes).  The advance rate was subject to the lender’s valuation of the collateral which, in turn, was affected by factors such as the credit performance of our managed portfolio and the terms and conditions of our term securitizations, including the expected yields require for bonds issued in our term securtizations.   The facility expired by its terms in November 2008.     Facility Established in September 2009.     On September 25, 2009 we established a $50 million secured revolving credit facility with Fortress Credit Corp. that will mature on September 25, 2011.  The facility is structured to allow us to fund a portion of the purchase price of automobile contracts by drawing against a floating rate variable funding note issued by our consolidated subsidiary Page Four Funding LLC.  The facility provides for advances up to 75% of eligible finance receivables and the notes under it accrue interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus 12.00% per annum, with a minimum rate of 14.00% per annum.  At December 31, 2009, $4.9 million was outstanding under this facility.        Capital Resources     Securitization trust debt is repaid from collections on the related receivables, and becomes due in accordance with its terms as the principal amount of the related receivables is reduced. Although the securitization trust debt also has alternative final maturity dates, those dates are significantly later than the dates at which repayment of the related receivables is anticipated, and at no time in our history have any of our sponsored asset-backed securities reached those alternative final maturities.     The acquisition of automobile contracts for subsequent transfer in securitization transactions, and the need to fund spread accounts and initial overcollateralization, if any, when those transactions take place, results in a continuing need for capital. The amount of capital required is most heavily dependent on the rate of our automobile contract purchases, the required level of initial credit enhancement in securitizations, and the extent to which the trusts and related spread accounts either release cash to us or capture cash from collections on securitized automobile contracts. We plan to adjust our levels of automobile contract purchases and the related capital requirements to match anticipated releases of cash from the trusts and related spread accounts.     Capitalization     Over the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2009 we have managed our capitalization by issuing and refinancing debt as summarized in the following table:            37                        Year Ended December 31,                  2009          2008                (Dollars in thousands)          RESIDUAL INTEREST FINANCING:                          Beginning balance      $  67,300        $  70,000               Issuances       -            20,000               Payments         (10,370  )        (22,700  )       Ending balance      $  56,930        $  67,300          SECURITIZATION TRUST DEBT:                                Beginning balance      $  1,404,211        $  1,798,302               Issuances       -            310,359               Payments         (499,378  )        (704,450  )       Ending balance      $  904,833        $  1,404,211          SENIOR SECURED DEBT, RELATED PARTY:                                Beginning balance      $  20,105         -                Issuances         5,000           25,000               Payments       -          -                Debt discount net of amortization         1,013           (4,895  )       Ending balance      $  26,118        $  20,105          SUBORDINATED RENEWABLE NOTES:                                Beginning balance      $  25,721        $  28,134               Issuances         2,424           4,183               Payments         (6,180  )        (6,596  )       Ending balance      $  21,965        $  25,721            Residual Interest Financing.       In July 2007, we established a combination term and revolving residual credit facility and have used eligible residual interests in securitizations as collateral for floating rate borrowings.  The amount that we were able to borrow was computed using an agreed valuation methodology of the residuals, subject to an overall maximum principal amount of $120 million, represented by (i) a $60 million Class A-1 variable funding note (the “revolving note”), and (ii) a $60 million Class A-2 term note (the “term note”).  The term note was fully drawn in July 2007 and was originally due in July 2009.  As of July 2008, we had drawn $26.8 million on the revolving note.  The facility’s revolving feature expired in July 2008.  On July 10, 2008 we amended the terms of the combination term and revolving residual credit facility, (i) eliminating the revolving feature and increasing the interest rate, (ii) consolidating the amounts then owing on the Class A-1 note with the Class A-2 note, (iii) establishing an amortization schedule for principal reductions on the Class A-2 note, and (iv) providing for an extension, at our option if certain conditions were met, of the Class A-2 note maturity from June 2009 to June 2010.  In June 2009 we met all such conditions and extended the maturity.  In conjunction with the amendment, we reduced the principal amount outstanding to $70 million, by delivering to the lender (i) warrants valued as being equivalent to 2,500,000 common shares, or $4,071,429, and (ii) cash of $12,765,244.  The warrants represent the right to purchase 2,500,000 CPS common shares at a nominal exercise price, at any time prior to July 10, 2018.  As of December 31, 2009 the aggregate indebtedness under this facility was $56.9 million.     Securitization Trust Debt.   From July 2003 through April 2008, we have, for financial accounting purposes, treated securitizations of automobile contracts as secured financings, and the asset-backed securities issued in such securitizations remain on our balance sheet as securitization trust debt.  Our most recent securitization, in September 2008, was structured as a sale for financial accounting purposes and the asset-backed securities issued in that transaction are not on our balance sheet.     Senior Secured Debt.   From 1998 to 2005, we entered into a series of financing transactions with Levine Leichtman Capital Partners II, L.P.  In July 2007 we repaid the final amounts due under these financing transactions.   On June 30, 2008, we entered into a series of agreements pursuant to which an affiliate of Levine Leichtman Capital Partners purchased a $10 million five-year, fixed rate, senior secured note from us.  The indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets, though not by the assets of our special-purpose financing subsidiaries.  In July 2008, in conjunction with the amendment of the combination term and revolving residual credit facility as discussed             38            above, the lender purchased an additional $15 million note with substantially the same terms as the $10 million note.  Pursuant to the June 30, 2008 securities purchase agreement, we issued to the lender 1,225,000 shares of common stock.  In addition, we issued the lender two warrants: (i) warrants that we refer to as the FMV Warrants, which are exercisable for 1,600,991 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $1.40702 per share, and (ii) warrants that we refer to as the N Warrants, which are exercisable for 283,985 shares of our common stock, at a nominal exercise price. Both the FMV Warrants and the N Warrants are exercisable in whole or in part and at any time up to and including June 30, 2018.  We valued the warrants using the Black-Scholes valuation model and recorded their value as a liability on our balance sheet because the terms of the warrants also included a provision whereby the lender could require us to purchase the warrants for cash. That provision was eliminated by mutual agreement in September 2008.   The FMV Warrants were initially exercisable to purchase 1,500,000 shares for $2.573 per share, were adjusted in connection with the July 2008 issuance of other warrants to become exercisable to purchase 1,564,324 shares at $2.4672 per share, and were further adjusted in connection with a July 2009 amendment of our option plan to become exercisable at $1.44 per share.  Upon issuance in September 2009 of the Fortress Warrant, the FMV Warrant was further adjusted to become exercisable to purchase 1,600,991 shares at an exercise price of $1.40702 per share.  In November 2009 we entered into an additional agreement with this lender whereby they purchased an additional $5 million note.  The note accrues interest at 15.0% and matures in October 2010 unless we fail to extend the maturity date of the above-mentioned residual credit facility, in which case the note matures in May 2010.        Subordinated Renewable Notes Debt.    In June 2005, we began issuing registered subordinated renewable notes in an ongoing offering to the public.  Upon maturity, the notes are automatically renewed for the same term as the maturing notes, unless we elect not to have the notes renewed or unless the investor notifies us within 15 days after the maturity date for his notes that he wants his notes repaid.  Renewed notes bear interest at the rate we are offering at that time to other investors with similar aggregate note portfolios.  Based on the terms of the individual notes, interest payments may be required monthly, quarterly, annually or upon maturity.     We must comply with certain affirmative and negative covenants related to debt facilities, which require, among other things, that we maintain certain financial ratios related to liquidity, net worth, capitalization, investments, acquisitions, restricted payments and certain dividend restrictions.   In addition, certain securitization and non-securitization related debt contain cross-default provisions that would allow certain creditors to declare default if a default occurred under a different facility. We have received waivers regarding the potential breach of financial covenants for our residual financing facility and certain of our securitization debt structures.     Forward-looking Statements     This report on Form 10-K includes certain  " forward-looking statements ".  Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as  " anticipates, "   " expects, "   " plans, "   " estimates, "  or words of like meaning. As to the specifically identified forward-looking statements, factors that could affect charge-offs and recovery rates include changes in the general economic climate, which could affect the willingness or ability of obligors to pay pursuant to the terms of contracts, changes in laws respecting consumer finance, which could affect our ability to enforce rights under contracts, and changes in the market for used vehicles, which could affect the levels of recoveries upon sale of repossessed vehicles. Factors that could affect our revenues in the current year include the levels of cash releases from existing pools of contracts, which would affect our ability to purchase contracts, the terms on which we are able to finance such purchases, the willingness of dealers to sell contracts to us on the terms that it offers, and the terms on which we are able to complete term securitizations once contracts are acquired. Factors that could affect our expenses in the current year include competitive conditions in the market for qualified personnel, investor demand for asset-backed securities and interest rates (which affect the rates that we pay on asset-backed securities issued in our securitizations).   The statements concerning structuring securitization transactions as secured financings and the effects of such structures on financial items and on future profitability also are forward-     looking statements. Any change to the structure of our securitization transaction could cause such forward-looking statements not to be accurate. Both the amount of the effect of the change in structure on our profitability and the duration of the period in which our profitability would be affected by the change in securitization structure are estimates. The accuracy of such estimates will be affected by the rate at which we purchase and sell contracts, any changes in that rate, the credit performance of such contracts, the financial terms of future securitizations, any changes in such terms over time, and other factors that generally affect our profitability.            39            New Accounting Pronouncements     In June 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-16, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets (FAS 166, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets – an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140). This standard modifies certain guidance contained in FASB ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing and limits the circumstances in which a financial asset should be derecognized when the transferor has not transferred the entire financial asset by taking into consideration the transferor’s continuing involvement. The standard requires that a transferor recognize and initially measure at fair value all assets obtained (including a transferor’s beneficial interest) and liabilities incurred as a result of a transfer of financial assets accounted for as a sale. The concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity is removed from SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities along with the exception from applying Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation (“FIN”) 46(R) Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (“FIN 46(R)”). This standard is effective for us beginning with the first quarter in 2010. Our adoption of this standard is not expected to have material impact on our financial position, results of operations or stockholders’ equity.        In June 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-17, Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities (FAS 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)). This standard amends several key consolidation provisions related to variable interest entity (“VIE”), which are included in FASB ASC 810, Consolidation to require a company to analyze whether its interest in a VIE gives it a controlling financial interest. A company must assess whether it has an implicit financial responsibility to ensure that the VIE operates as designed when determining whether it has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that significantly impact its economic performance. Ongoing reassessment of whether a company is the primary beneficiary is also required by the standard. This standard amends the criteria to qualify as a primary beneficiary as well as how to determine the existence of a VIE. This standard is effective for us beginning with the first quarter in 2010. Comparative disclosures will be required for periods after the effective date. Our adoption of this standard is not expected to have material impact on our financial position, results of operations or stockholders’ equity.          Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements     From July 2003 through April 2008 all of our securitizationswere structured as secured financings for financial accounting purposes. In September 2008, we securitized $198.7 million of our automobile contracts in a structure that is treated as a sale of the receivables for financial accounting purposes.  The terms of the September 2008 securitization provide for us (1) to continue servicing the sold portfolio, (2) to retain a 5.0% interest in the bonds issued by the trust to which we sold the automobile contracts and (3) to earn additional compensation contingent upon (a) the return to the holders of the senior bonds issued by the trust reaching certain targets or (b) “lifetime” cumulative net charge-offs on the automobile contracts being below a pre-determined level.  See "Critical Accounting Policies" for a detailed discussion of our securitization structure.        Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     Interest Rate Risk     We are subject to interest rate risk during the period between when contracts are purchased from dealers and when such contracts become part of a term securitization. Specifically, the interest rate due on our warehouse credit facility is adjustable while the interest rates on the contracts are fixed. Historically, our term securitization facilities have had fixed rates of interest. To mitigate some of this risk, we have in the past, and intend to continue to structure            40            our securitization transactions to include pre-funding structures, whereby the amount of Notes issued exceeds the amount of contracts initially sold to the Trusts. In pre-funding, the proceeds from the pre-funded portion are held in an escrow account until we sell the additional contracts to the Trust in amounts up to the balance of the pre-funded escrow account. In pre-funded securitizations, we lock in the borrowing costs with respect to the contracts we subsequently deliver to the Trust. However, we incur an expense in pre-funded securitizations equal to the difference between the money market yields earned on the proceeds held in escrow prior to subsequent delivery of contracts and the interest rate paid on the Notes outstanding, the amount as to which there can be no assurance.        Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 