Item 7.  Management’s Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations     The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and other information included or incorporated by reference herein.     Overview     We are a specialty finance company. Our business is to purchase and service retail automobile contracts originated primarily by franchised automobile dealers and, to a lesser extent, by select independent dealers in the United States in the sale of new and used automobiles, light trucks and passenger vans. Through our automobile contract purchases, we provide indirect financing to the customers of dealers who have limited credit histories, low incomes or past credit problems, who we refer to as sub-prime customers.  We serve as an alternative source of financing for dealers, facilitating sales to customers who otherwise might not be able to obtain financing from traditional sources, such as commercial banks, credit unions and the captive finance companies affiliated with major automobile manufacturers. In addition to purchasing installment purchase contracts directly from dealers, we have also (i) acquired installment purchase contracts in three merger and acquisition transactions, (ii) purchased immaterial amounts of vehicle purchase money loans from non-affiliated lenders, and (iii) directly originated an immaterial amount of vehicle purchase money loans by lending money directly to consumers.  In this report, we refer to all of such contracts and loans as "automobile contracts."     We were incorporated and began our operations in March 1991. From inception through December 31, 2010, we have purchased a total of approximately $8.8 billion of automobile contracts from dealers.  In addition, we obtained a total of approximately $605.0 million of automobile contracts in mergers and acquisitions in 2002, 2003 and 2004.  In 2004 and 2009, we were appointed as a third-party servicer for certain portfolios of automobile receivables originated and owned by entities not affiliated with us.  Beginning in 2008, our managed portfolio has decreased each year due to our strategy of limiting contract purchases to conserve our liquidity in response to adverse economic conditions, as discussed further below.  However, since October 2009, we have gradually increased contract purchases resulting in aggregate purchases of $113.0 million in 2010, compared to $8.6 million in 2009.  Our total managed portfolio was $756.2 million at December 31, 2010 compared to $1,194.7 million at December 31, 2009, $1,664.1 million at December 31, 2008, $2,162.2 million at December 31, 2007 and $1,565.9 million at December 31, 2006.     We are headquartered in Irvine, California, where most operational and administrative functions are centralized.  All credit and underwriting functions are performed in our California headquarters, and we service our automobile contracts from our California headquarters and from three servicing branches in Virginia, Florida and Illinois.     We purchase contracts in our own name (“CPS”) and, until July 2008, also in the name of our wholly-owned subsidiary, TFC.  Programs marketed under the CPS name are intended to serve a wide range of sub-prime customers, primarily through franchised new car dealers.  Our TFC program served vehicle purchasers enlisted in the U.S. Armed Forces, primarily through independent used car dealers.  In July 2008, we ended our TFC program.     We purchase automobile contracts with the intention of financing them on a long-term basis through securitizations. Securitizations are transactions in which we sell a specified pool of contracts to a special purpose entity of ours, which in turn issues asset-backed securities to fund the purchase of the pool of contracts from us. Depending on the structure of the securitization, the transaction may be treated, for financial accounting purposes, as a sale of the contracts or as a secured financing.     Securitization and Warehouse Credit Facilities     Throughout the periods for which information is presented in this report, we have purchased automobile contracts with the intention of financing them on a long-term basis through securitizations, and on an interim basis through warehouse credit facilities.  All such financings have involved identification of specific automobile contracts, sale of those automobile contracts (and associated rights) to one of our special-purpose subsidiaries, and issuance of asset-backed securities to fund the transactions. Depending on the structure, these transactions may be accounted for under generally accepted accounting principles as sales of the automobile contracts or as secured financings.     When structured to be treated as a secured financing for accounting purposes, the subsidiary is consolidated with us. Accordingly, the sold automobile contracts and the related debt appear as assets and liabilities, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheet. We then periodically: (i) recognize interest and fee income on the contracts, (ii) recognize interest expense on the securities issued in the transaction, and (iii) record as expense a provision for credit losses on the contracts.  From July 2003 through April 2008, all of our securitizations were structured in this manner. In September 2008, we securitized automobile contracts in a transaction that was in substance a sale, that              26             was treated as a sale for accounting purposes, and in which we retained a residual interest in the automobile contracts.  The remaining receivables from that September 2008 securitization were re-securitized in September 2010 in a structure that maintained sale treatment for accounting purposes.     When structured to be treated as a sale for accounting purposes, the assets and liabilities of the special-purpose subsidiary are not consolidated with us. Accordingly, the transaction removes the sold automobile contracts from our consolidated balance sheet, the related debt does not appear as our debt, and our consolidated balance sheet shows, as an asset, a retained residual interest in the sold automobile contracts. The residual interest represents the discounted value of what we expect will be the excess of future collections on the automobile contracts over principal and interest due on the asset-backed securities. That residual interest appears on our consolidated balance sheet as  " residual interest in securitizations, "  and the determination of its value is dependent on our estimates of the future performance of the sold automobile contracts.  Of our managed portfolio outstanding at December 31, 2010, only our September 2010 securitization was structured to be treated as a sale for accounting purposes.     Credit Risk Retained     Whether a sale of automobile contracts in connection with a securitization or warehouse credit facility is treated as a secured financing or as a sale for financial accounting purposes, the related special-purpose subsidiary may be unable to release excess cash to us if the credit performance of the related automobile contracts falls short of pre-determined standards. Such releases represent a material portion of the cash that we use to fund our operations.   An unexpected deterioration in the performance of such automobile contracts could therefore have a material adverse effect on both our liquidity and our results of operations, regardless of whether such automobile contracts are treated for financial accounting purposes as having been sold or as having been financed. For estimation of the magnitude of such risk, it may be appropriate to look to the size of our  " managed portfolio, "  which represents both financed and sold automobile contracts as to which such credit risk is retained. Our managed portfolio as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $756.2 million, which includes a third party servicing portfolio of $75.1 million on which we earn only servicing fees and have no credit risk.     Critical Accounting Policies     We believe that our accounting policies related to (a) Allowance for Finance Credit Losses, (b) Amortization of Deferred Originations Costs and Acquisition Fees, (c) Residual Interest in Securitizations and Gain on Sale of Automobile Contracts and (d) Income Taxes are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Such policies are described below.     Allowance for Finance Credit Losses     In order to estimate an appropriate allowance for losses to be incurred on finance receivables, we use a loss allowance methodology commonly referred to as  " static pooling, "  which stratifies our finance receivable portfolio into separately identified pools based on the period of origination. Using analytical and formula driven techniques, we estimate an allowance for finance credit losses, which we believe is adequate for probable credit losses that can be reasonably estimated in our portfolio of automobile contracts. Provision for losses is charged to our consolidated statement of operations. Net losses incurred on finance receivables are charged to the allowance. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance by examining current delinquencies, the characteristics of the portfolio, prospective liquidation values of the underlying collateral and general economic and market conditions. As circumstances change, our level of provisioning and/or allowance may change as well. We observed deterioration in performance of automobile contracts held in our portfolio since 2008, which we attribute to a general recession that began in December 2007. Accordingly, we increased our provision for credit losses in the fourth quarter of 2009.     Our allowance as a percentage of finance receivables has decreased in recent years due primarily to the continued seasoning of our portfolio.  Our historical static loss data shows that, in general, incremental monthly losses increase through approximately the 28 th  month of the life of a static portfolio, after which such monthly incremental losses tend to decrease.  As of December 31, 2010 the weighted average age of our portfolio of finance receivables was 37 months.  In addition, for receivables originated beginning with the third quarter of 2008, we have found the early credit performance of those static portfolios to be significantly better than earlier portfolios at similar vintage time frames.     Amortization of Deferred Originations Costs and Acquisition Fees     Upon purchase of a contract from a dealer, we generally either charge or advance the dealer an acquisition fee.  In addition, we incur certain direct costs associated with originations of our contracts.  All such acquisition fees and              27             direct costs are applied to the carrying value of finance receivables and are accreted into earnings as an adjustment to the yield over the estimated life of the contract using the interest method.     Term Securitizations     Our term securitization structure has generally been as follows:     We sell automobile contracts we acquire to a wholly-owned special purpose subsidiary, which has been established for the limited purpose of buying and reselling our automobile contracts. The special-purpose subsidiary then transfers the same automobile contracts to another entity, typically a statutory trust. The trust issues interest-bearing asset-backed securities, in a principal amount equal to or less than the aggregate principal balance of the automobile contracts. We typically sell these automobile contracts to the trust at face value and without recourse, except that representations and warranties similar to those provided by the dealer to us are provided by us to the trust. One or more investors purchase the asset-backed securities issued by the trust; the proceeds from the sale of the asset-backed securities are then used to purchase the automobile contracts from us. We may retain or sell subordinated asset-backed securities issued by the trust or by a related entity. Historically we have purchased external credit enhancement for most of our term securitizations in the form of a financial guaranty insurance policy, guaranteeing timely payment of interest and ultimate payment of principal on the senior asset-backed securities, from an insurance company. In addition, we structure our securitizations to include internal credit enhancement for the benefit of the insurance company and the investors (i) in the form of an initial cash deposit to an account ( " spread account " ) held by the trust, (ii) in the form of overcollateralization of the senior asset-backed securities, where the principal balance of the senior asset-backed securities issued is less than the principal balance of the automobile contracts, (iii) in the form of subordinated asset-backed securities, or (iv) some combination of such internal credit enhancements. The agreements governing the securitization transactions require that the initial level of internal credit enhancement be supplemented by a portion of collections from the automobile contracts until the level of internal credit enhancement reaches specified levels, which are then maintained. The specified levels are generally computed as a percentage of the principal amount remaining unpaid under the related automobile contracts. The specified levels at which the internal credit enhancement is to be maintained will vary depending on the performance of the portfolios of automobile contracts held by the trusts and on other conditions, and may also be varied by agreement among us, our special purpose subsidiary, the insurance company and the trustee. Such levels have increased and decreased from time to time based on performance of the various portfolios, and have also varied from one transaction to another. The agreements governing the securitizations generally grant us the option to repurchase the sold automobile contracts from the trust when the aggregate outstanding balance of the automobile contracts has amortized to a specified percentage of the initial aggregate balance.     Our September 2008 securitization and the subsequent re-securitization of the remaining receivables from such transaction in September 2010 were each in substance sales of the underlying receivables, and have been treated as sales for financial accounting purposes. They differ from those treated as secured financings in that the trust to which our special-purpose subsidiaries sold the automobile contracts met the definition of a  " qualified special-purpose entity "  under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 140 ( " SFAS 140 " )  (ASC 860 10 65-2)  As a result, assets and liabilities of those trusts are not consolidated into our consolidated balance sheet.     Historically, our warehouse credit facility structures were similar to the above, except that (i) our special-purpose subsidiaries that purchased the automobile contracts pledged the automobile contracts to secure promissory notes that they issued, (ii) no increase in the required amount of internal credit enhancement was contemplated, and (iii) we did not purchase financial guaranty insurance.  Through November 2008, we depended substantially on two warehouse credit facilities: (i) a $200 million warehouse credit facility, which we established in November 2005 and expired by its terms in November 2008; and (ii) a $200 million warehouse credit facility, which we established in June 2004 and which was amended in December 2008 to eliminate future advances and to provide for repayment of the related notes from the cash collections on the underlying pledged contracts, and certain other principal reductions until it was fully repaid in September 2009.   Since October 2009, we have gradually increased our contract purchases by utilizing a $50 million credit facility we established in September 2009 and $50 million term funding facility that we established in March 2010 .   More recently, we increased our short-term contract financing resources by $200 million by entering into agreements for a $100 million credit facility in December 2010 and for another $100 million credit facility in February 2011.     Upon each sale of automobile contracts in a transaction structured as a secured financing for financial accounting purposes, whether a term securitization or a warehouse financing, we retain on our consolidated balance sheet the related automobile contracts as assets and record the asset-backed notes issued in the transaction as indebtedness.             28             Under the September 2008 and September 2010 securitizations, and other term securitizations completed prior to July 2003 that were structured as sales for financial accounting purposes, we removed from our consolidated balance sheet the automobile contracts sold and added to our consolidated balance sheet (i) the cash received, if any, and (ii) the estimated fair value of the ownership interest that we retained in the automobile contracts sold in the transaction. That retained or residual interest consisted of (a) the cash held in the spread account, if any, (b) overcollateralization, if any, (c) asset-backed securities retained, if any, and (d) receivables from the trust, which include the net interest receivables.  Net interest receivables represent the estimated discounted cash flows to be received from the trust in the future, net of principal and interest payable with respect to the asset-backed notes, the premium paid to the insurance company, if any, and certain other expenses. The excess of the cash received and the assets we retained over the carrying value of the automobile contracts sold, less transaction costs, equaled the net gain on sale of automobile contracts we recorded.     We receive periodic base servicing fees for the servicing and collection of the automobile contracts. Under our securitization structures treated as secured financings for financial accounting purposes, such servicing fees are included in interest income from the automobile contracts. In addition, we are entitled to the cash flows from the trusts that represent collections on the automobile contracts in excess of the amounts required to pay principal and interest on the asset-backed securities, base servicing fees, and certain other fees and expenses (such as trustee and custodial fees). Required principal payments on the asset-backed notes are generally defined as the payments sufficient to keep the principal balance of such notes equal to the aggregate principal balance of the related automobile contracts (excluding those automobile contracts that have been charged off), or a pre-determined percentage of such balance. Where that percentage is less than 100%, the related securitization agreements require accelerated payment of principal until the principal balance of the asset-backed securities is reduced to the specified percentage. Such accelerated principal payment is said to create overcollateralization of the asset-backed notes.     If the amount of cash required for payment of fees, expenses, interest and principal on the senior asset-backed notes exceeds the amount collected during the collection period, the shortfall is withdrawn from the spread account, if any. If the cash collected during the period exceeds the amount necessary for the above allocations plus required principal payments on the subordinated asset-backed notes, and there is no shortfall in the related spread account or the required overcollateralization level, the excess is released to us. If the spread account and overcollateralization is not at the required level, then the excess cash collected is retained in the trust until the specified level is achieved. Although spread account balances are held by the trusts on behalf of our special-purpose subsidiaries as the owner of the residual interests (in the case of securitization transactions structured as sales for financial accounting purposes) or the trusts (in the case of securitization transactions structured as secured financings for financial accounting purposes), we are restricted in use of the cash in the spread accounts. Cash held in the various spread accounts is invested in high quality, liquid investment securities, as specified in the securitization agreements. The interest rate payable on the automobile contracts is significantly greater than the interest rate on the asset-backed notes. As a result, the residual interests described above historically have been a significant asset of ours.     In all of our term securitizations and warehouse credit facilities, whether treated as secured financings or as sales, we have sold the automobile contracts (through a subsidiary) to the securitization entity. The difference between the two structures is that in securitizations that are treated as secured financings we report the assets and liabilities of the securitization trust on our consolidated balance sheet. Under both structures, recourse to us by holders of the asset-backed securities and by the trust, for failure of the automobile contract obligors to make payments on a timely basis, is limited to the automobile contracts included in the securitizations or warehouse credit facilities, the spread accounts and our retained interests in the respective trusts.     Since the third quarter of 2003, we have conducted 25 term securitizations. Of these 25, 19 were periodic (generally quarterly) securitizations of automobile contracts that we purchased from automobile dealers under our regular programs. In addition, in March 2004 and November 2005, we completed securitizations of our retained interests in other securitizations that we and our affiliates previously sponsored. The debt from the March 2004 transaction was repaid in August 2005, and the debt from the November 2005 transaction was repaid in May 2007. Also, in June 2004, we completed a securitization of automobile contracts purchased under our TFC program and acquired in a bulk purchase. Further, in December 2005 and May 2007 we completed securitizations that included automobile contracts purchased under the TFC programs, automobile contracts purchased under the CPS programs and automobile contracts we repurchased upon termination of prior securitizations.  Since July 2003 all such securitizations have been structured as secured financings, except that our September 2008 and September 2010 securitizations were in substance sales of the underlying receivables, and were treated as sales for financial accounting purposes.               29                Income Taxes     We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statements and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.  The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management’s judgment that realization is more likely than not.  Although realization is not assured, we believe that the realization of the recognized net deferred tax asset of $15.0 million is more likely than not based on available tax planning strategies that could be implemented if necessary to prevent a carryforward from expiring. Our net deferred tax asset of $15.0 million is net of a valuation allowance of $56.6 million and consists of approximately $11.5 million of net U.S. federal deferred tax assets and $3.5 million of net state deferred tax assets.  The major components of the deferred tax asset are $67.0 million in net operating loss carryforwards and built in losses and $11.5 million in net deductions which have not yet been taken on a tax return. We estimate that we would need to generate approximately $37.5 million of taxable income during the applicable carryforward periods to realize fully our federal and state net deferred tax assets.     As a result of recent net losses, we are in a three-year cumulative pretax loss position at December 31, 2010. A cumulative loss position is considered significant negative evidence in assessing the realizability of a deferred tax asset.  In determining the possible future realization of deferred tax assets, we have considered future taxable income from the following sources: (a) reversal of taxable temporary differences; and (b) tax planning strategies available to us in accordance with SFAS 109 (FASB ASC 740, “Income Taxes”) that, if necessary, would be implemented to accelerate taxable income into years in which net operating losses might otherwise expire. Our tax planning strategies include the prospective sale of certain assets such as finance receivables, residual interests in securitized finance receivables, charged off receivables and base servicing rights.  The expected proceeds for such asset sales have been estimated based on our expectation of what buyers of the assets would consider to be reasonable assumptions for net cash flows and required rates of return for each of the various asset types.  Our estimates for net cash flows and required rates of return are subjective and inherently subject to future events which may significantly impact actual net proceeds we may receive from executing our tax planning strategies.  Nevertheless, we believe such asset sales can produce significant taxable income within the relevant carryforward period. Such strategies could be implemented without significant impact on our core business or our ability to generate future growth. The costs related to the implementation of these tax strategies were considered in evaluating the amount of taxable income that could be generated in order to realize our deferred tax assets.     Based upon the tax planning opportunities and other factors discussed below, we have concluded that the U.S. and state net operating loss carryforward periods provide enough time to utilize the deferred tax assets pertaining to the existing net operating loss carryforwards and any net operating loss that would be created by the reversal of the future net deductions which have not yet been taken on a tax return. Although our core business has produced strong earnings in the past, even with intermittent loss periods resulting from economic cycles not unlike, although not as severe as, the current economic downturn, we have not used expected future taxable income in our evaluation of the value of our net deferred tax asset.  We have already taken steps to reduce our cost structure and have adjusted the contract interest rates and purchase prices applicable to our purchases of automobile contracts from dealers. We have been able to increase our acquisition fees and reduce our purchase prices because of lessened competition for our services. Our  estimates of taxable income that may be derived from the implementation of our tax planning strategies is a forward-looking statement, and there can be no assurance that our estimates of such taxable income  will be correct. Factors discussed under "Risk Factors," and in particular under the subheading "Risk Factors -- Forward-Looking Statements" may affect whether such projections prove to be correct.     We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the income tax expense line in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations.  Accrued interest and penalties are included within the related tax liability line in the consolidated balance sheet.     Uncertainty of Capital Markets and General Economic Conditions     Historically, we have depended upon the availability of warehouse credit facilities and access to long-term financing through the issuance of asset-backed securities collateralized by our automobile contracts. Since 1994, we have completed 50 term securitizations of approximately $6.7 billion in contracts. We conducted four term securitizations in 2006, four in 2007, two 2008 and one in 2010. From July 2003 through April 2008 all of our securitizations were structured as secured financings.  The second of our two securitization transactions in 2008              30             (completed in September 2008) and our most recent securitization in September 2010 (a re-securitization of the remaining receivables from the September 2008 transaction) were each in substance a sale of the related contracts, and have been treated as sales for financial accounting purposes.    Since the fourth quarter of 2007 through the end of 2009, we observed unprecedented adverse changes in the market for securitized pools of automobile contracts. These changes included reduced liquidity, and reduced demand for asset-backed securities, particularly for securities carrying a financial guaranty and for securities backed by sub-prime automobile receivables. Moreover, many of the firms that previously provided financial guarantees, which were an integral part of our securitizations, suspended offering such guarantees.  The adverse changes that took place in the market from the fourth quarter of 2007 through the end of 2009 caused us to conserve liquidity by significantly reducing our purchases of automobile contracts. However, since October 2009, we have gradually increased our contract purchases by utilizing one $50 million credit facility that we established in September 2009 and another $50 million term funding facility that we established in March 2010.  In September 2010 we took advantage of improvement in the market for asset-backed securities by re-securitizing the remaining underlying receivables from our unrated September 2008 securitization.  By doing so we were able to pay off the bonds associated with the September 2008 transaction and issue rated bonds with a significantly lower weighted average coupon.  The September 2010 transaction was our first rated term securitization since 1993 that did not utilize a financial guaranty.  More recently, we increased our short-term funding capacity by $200 million with the establishment of a new $100 million credit facility in December 2010 and an additional $100 million credit facility in February 2011.  In addition,  we expect to complete one or more term securitization transactions in 2011.  In spite of the improvements we have seen in the capital markets, if the trend of improvement in the markets for asset-backed securities should reverse, or if we should be unable to obtain additional contract financing facilities or to complete a term securitization of our recently originated receivables, we may curtail or cease our purchases of new automobile contracts, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our operations.     The downturn in economic conditions and the capital markets that began in the fourth quarter of 2007 has negatively affected many aspects of our industry.  First, throughout 2008 and 2009 there was reduced demand for asset-backed securities secured by consumer finance receivables, including sub-prime automobile receivables, as compared to 2007 and earlier.  During 2010, however, we observed that yield requirements for investors that purchase securities backed by consumer finance receivables, including sub-prime automobile receivables, have decreased significantly and are approaching pre-2008 levels, albeit with significantly fewer transactions in the market.  Second, there have been fewer lenders who provide short term warehouse financing for sub-prime automobile finance companies due to more uncertainty regarding the prospects of obtaining long-term financing through the issuance of asset-backed securities than before 2008.  Many capital market participants such as investment banks, financial guaranty providers and institutional investors who previously played a role in the sub-prime auto finance industry have withdrawn from the industry, or in some cases, have ceased to do business.  These developments resulted in our incurring higher interest costs for receivables we financed in 2009 and 2010 compared to pre-2008 levels.  However, on December 23, 2010 we entered into a $100 million two-year warehouse credit line with a significantly lower cost of funds than the facilities we used in 2009 and 2010.  Finally, broad economic weakness and high levels of unemployment in 2008, 2009 and 2010 have made many of our customers less willing or able to pay, resulting in higher delinquency, charge-offs and losses.  Each of these factors has adversely affected our results of operations.  Should existing economic conditions worsen, both our ability to purchase new contracts and the performance of our existing managed portfolio may be impaired, which, in turn, could have a further material adverse effect on our results of operations.     Financial Covenants     Certain of our securitization transactions and our warehouse credit facilities contain various financial covenants requiring certain minimum financial ratios and results. Such covenants include maintaining minimum levels of liquidity and net worth and not exceeding maximum leverage levels and maximum financial losses. In addition, certain securitization and non-securitization related debt contain cross-default provisions that would allow certain creditors to declare a default if a default occurred under a different facility.     The agreements under which we receive periodic fees for servicing automobile contracts in securitizations are terminable by the respective financial guaranty insurance companies (also referred to as note insurers) upon defined events of default, and, in some cases, at the will of the insurance company.  In August 2010, we agreed with the note insurer for eight of our twelve currently outstanding securitizations to amend the applicable agreements to remove the financial covenants that were contained in three of the related agreements.  In return for such amendments, we              31             agreed to increase the required credit enhancement amounts in those three deals through increased spread account requirements.  The remaining five transactions insured by this particular note insurer do not contain financial covenants.     For the remaining four securitizations insured by different parties, we have been receiving waivers for certain financial and operating covenants on a monthly and/or quarterly basis as summarized below:         Financial covenant    Applicable Standard    Status Requiring Waiver (as of or for the quarter ended December 31, 2010)     Warehouse financing capacity    $200 million of warehouse capacity    $150 million of warehouse capacity     Adjusted net worth (I)    $87.6 million    $4.6 million     Leverage    Not greater than 4.5:1    27.5:1     Maximum net loss    $7.5 million    $33.8 million     Adjusted net worth (II)    $95.3 million    $4.6 million        The covenant regarding warehouse financing capacity is a covenant to maintain one or more credit facilities that allow us to finance acquisition of automobile contracts on a revolving basis, with a minimum aggregate capacity of $200 million.  The adjusted net worth covenants are covenants to maintain minimum levels of adjusted net worth, defined as our consolidated book value under GAAP with the exclusion of intangible assets such as goodwill. There are two separate adjusted net worth covenants because there are two separate note insurers that have this covenant in their related securitization agreements. The leverage covenant requires that we not exceed the specified ratio of debt over the defined adjusted net worth. Debt is defined in this covenant to mean consolidated liabilities less warehouse lines of credit and securitization trust debt; using this definition at December 31 2010, we had debt of $125.0 million. The maximum net loss covenant requires that we not exceed $7.5 million in net losses for any quarter or year.       Without the waivers we have received from the related note insurers, we would have been in violation of covenants relating to minimum net worth, maximum financial losses, maximum leverage levels and maintenance of active warehouse facilities with respect to four of our 12 currently outstanding securitization transactions.  Upon such an event of default, and subject to the right of the related note insurers to waive such terms, the agreements governing the securitizations call for payment of a default insurance premium, ranging from 25 to 100 basis points per annum on the aggregate outstanding balance of the related insured senior notes, and for the diversion of all excess cash generated by the assets of the respective securitization pools into the related spread accounts to increase the credit enhancement associated with those transactions. The cash so diverted into the spread accounts would otherwise be used to make principal payments on the subordinated notes in each related securitization or would be released to us. As of the date of this report, cash is being diverted to the related spread accounts in seven transactions.  In addition, upon an event of default, the note insurers have the right to terminate us as servicer.  Although our termination as servicer has been waived, we are paying default premiums, or their equivalent, with respect to insured notes representing $347.0 million of the $567.7 million of securitization trust debt outstanding at December 31, 2010. It should be noted that the principal amount of such securitization trust debt is not increased, but that the increased insurance premium is reflected as increased interest expense.  Furthermore, such waivers are temporary, and there can be no assurance as to their future extension. We do, however, believe that we will obtain such future extensions of our servicing agreements because it is generally not in the interest of any party to the securitization transaction to transfer servicing.  Nevertheless, there can be no assurance as to our belief being correct.  Were an insurance company in the future to exercise its option to terminate such agreements or to pursue other remedies, such remedies could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations, depending on the number and value of the affected transactions. Our note insurers continue to extend our term as servicer on a monthly and/or quarterly basis, pursuant to the servicing agreements.              32                Results of Operations     Comparison of Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 with the Year Ended December 31, 2009     Revenues .  During the year ended December 31, 2010, revenues were $155.2 million, a decrease of $68.7 million, or 30.7%, from the prior year revenue of $223.9 million. The primary reason for the decrease in revenues is a decrease in interest income. Interest income for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased $71.1 million, or 34.2%, to $137.1 million from $208.2 million in the prior year. The primary reason for the decrease in interest income is the decrease in finance receivables held by consolidated subsidiaries.  At December 31, 2010 the aggregate outstanding balance of finance receivables held by consolidated subsidiaries was $597.1 million compared to $922.7 million at December 31, 2009, resulting in a decrease of $70.9 million in interest income.  We also experienced a decrease in interest income on our residual interest in securitizations of $348,000, which was partially offset by an increase in interest earned on cash deposits (including restricted cash deposits) of $86,000.     Servicing fees totaling $7.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $3.0 million, or 65.0%, from $5.0 million in the prior year. The increase in servicing fees is the result our appointment in November 2009 as a third-party servicer for a portfolio of sub-prime automobile receivables owned by a subsidiary of CompuCredit Corporation.  As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our managed portfolio owned by consolidated vs. non-consolidated subsidiaries and third parties was as follows:            December 31, 2010        December 31, 2009           Amount          %          Amount          %        Total Managed Portfolio    ($ in millions)     Owned by Consolidated Subsidiaries   $  597.1           79.0  %     $  922.7           77.2  %    Owned by Non-Consolidated Subsidiaries      84.0           11.1  %        134.9           11.3  %    Third-Party Servicing Portfolios      75.1           9.9  %        137.1           11.5  %    Total   $  756.2           100.0  %     $  1,194.7           100.0  %        At December 31, 2010, we were generating income and fees on a managed portfolio with an outstanding principal balance of $756.2 million compared to a managed portfolio with an outstanding principal balance of $1,194.7 million as of December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the managed portfolio composition was as follows:           December 31, 2010        December 31, 2009           Amount          %          Amount          %         Originating Entity     ($ in millions)      CPS    $  672.2           88.9  %     $  1,034.2           86.6  %     TFC       8.9           1.2  %        23.4           2.0  %    Third-Party Servicing Portfolios      75.1           9.9  %        137.1           11.5  %    Total   $  756.2           100.0  %     $  1,194.7           100.0  %          Other income decreased $620,000, or 5.6%, to $10.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2010 from $11.1 million during the prior year.  The year-over-year decrease is the result of a variety of factors including a decrease of $1.6 million in convenience fees charged to our customers for web-based and other electronic payments and a decrease of $617,000 in income from direct mail and related products and services that we offer to our dealers.  The decreases were offset by an increase of $2.4 million in sales tax refunds.     Expenses .  Our operating expenses consist primarily of provisions for credit losses, interest expense, employee costs and general and administrative expenses.  Provisions for credit losses and interest expense are significantly affected by the volume of automobile contracts we purchased during a period and by the outstanding balance of finance receivables held by consolidated subsidiaries.  Employee costs and general and administrative expenses are incurred as applications and automobile contracts are received, processed and serviced. Factors that affect margins and net income include changes in the automobile and automobile finance market environments, and macroeconomic factors such as interest rates and the unemployment level.             33             Employee costs include base salaries, commissions and bonuses paid to employees, and certain expenses related to the accounting treatment of outstanding warrants and stock options, and are one of our most significant operating expenses. These costs (other than those relating to stock options) generally fluctuate with the level of applications and automobile contracts processed and serviced.     Other operating expenses consist primarily of facilities expenses, telephone and other communication services, credit services, computer services, marketing and advertising expenses, and depreciation and amortization.     Total operating expenses were $172.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $273.3 million for the prior year, a decrease of $101.3 million, or 37.1%. The decrease is primarily due to decreases in provision for credit losses and interest expense, which decreased by $62.1 million and $29.5 million, or 67.5% and 26.4%, respectively.     Employee costs decreased by 9.4% to $33.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2010, representing 19.7% of total operating expenses, from $37.3 million for the prior year, or 13.7% of total operating expenses.  The decrease in employee costs is due to the reduction in our workforce, primarily in the areas related to contract servicing throughout both 2010 and 2009 as a result of the reduction in our managed portfolio over those periods.   As of December 31, 2010 we had 435 employees, compared to 523 employees at December 31, 2009.     General and administrative expenses decreased by 23.7% to $18.5 million and represented 10.7% of total operating expenses in the year ending December 31, 2010, as compared to the prior year when such expenses represented 8.9% of total operating expenses. General and administrative expenses include telecommunications costs, postage and delivery costs and other costs associated with servicing our managed portfolio.     Provision for credit losses was $29.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $62.1 million, or 67.5%, compared to the prior year and represented 17.4% of total operating expenses.  The provision for credit losses maintains the allowance for loan losses at levels that we feel are adequate for the probable credit losses that can be reasonably estimated.  The decrease in provision expense compared to the prior year is caused by the decrease in the size and continued aging of our portfolio of finance receivables.     Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased $29.5 million, or 26.4%, to $82.2 million, compared to $111.8 million in the previous year. The decrease is primarily the result of the decline in our portfolio owned by consolidated subsidiaries. Interest on securitization trust debt decreased by $34.2 million in 2010 compared to the prior year.  Interest expense on our residual interest financing also decreased by $1.5 million as the balance outstanding has dropped from $56.9 million at the end of 2009 to $39.4 million at then end of 2010 .  Decreases in interest expense for securitization debt and residual interest debt were partially offset by an increase of $5.0 million in interest expense for warehouse debt and $1.2 million on senior secured debt. In November 2009 we issued $5 million in new senior secured debt.     Marketing expenses consist primarily of commission-based compensation paid to our employee marketing representatives.  These expenses increased by $44,000, or 1.2%, to $3.8 million, compared to $3.8 million in the previous year and represented 2.2% of total operating expenses. Although we purchased 7,507 contracts in 2010 compared to 595 in 2009, the increase in volume was offset by changes in the compensation rates for our marketing representatives.     Occupancy expenses decreased by $457,000 or 13.0%, to $3.1 million compared to $3.5 million in the previous year and represented 1.8% of total operating expenses.  The reduction in occupancy expense is primarily attributable to the amendment in July 2009 of the lease for our Irvine headquarters to reduce our square footage from approximately 90,000 to approximately 60,000 square feet.     Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased by $58,000, or 8.2%, to $649,000 from $707,000 in the previous year.     For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a tax benefit of $6.1 million resulting from operating losses and an additional $4.9 million resulting from changes in state tax rates. The benefit was offset by an increase of $28.0 to our valuation allowance for deferred taxes.   For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of $19.2 million.  The benefit was offset by an increase of $27.0 to our valuation allowance for deferred taxes.             34                  Liquidity and Capital Resources     Liquidity     Our business requires substantial cash to support purchases of automobile contracts and other operating activities. Our  primary sources of cash have been cash flows from operating activities, including proceeds from term securitization transactions and other sales of automobile contracts, amounts borrowed under warehouse credit facilities, servicing fees on portfolios of automobile contracts previously sold in securitization transactions or serviced for third parties, customer payments of principal and interest on finance receivables, fees for origination of automobile contracts, and releases of cash from securitized portfolios of automobile contracts in which we have retained a residual ownership interest and from the spread accounts associated with such pools. Our primary uses of cash have been the purchases of automobile contracts, repayment of amounts borrowed under warehouse credit facilities and otherwise, operating expenses such as employee, interest, occupancy expenses and other general and administrative expenses, the establishment of spread accounts and initial overcollateralization, if any, and the increase of credit enhancement to required levels in securitization transactions, and income taxes. There can be no assurance that internally generated cash will be sufficient to meet our cash demands. The sufficiency of internally generated cash will depend on the performance of securitized pools (which determines the level of releases from those portfolios and their related spread accounts), the rate of expansion or contraction in our managed portfolio, and the terms upon which we are able to purchase, sell, and borrow against automobile contracts.     Net cash provided by operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $38.1 million and $74.5 million, respectively.     Net cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $272.9 million compared to $443.7 million in 2009. Cash provided by investing activities primarily results from principal payments and other proceeds received on finance receivables held for investment.  Cash used in investing activities generally relates to purchases of automobile contracts. Purchases of finance receivables held for investment were $113.3 million and $8.6 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The significant increase in contract purchases in 2010 was made possible by the establishment of a $50 million secured revolving credit facility in September 2009 and a $50 million term funding facility in March 2010.     Net cash used by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $307.2 million compared with $527.8 million in 2009. Cash used or provided by financing activities is primarily attributable to the issuance or repayment of debt, and in particular, securitization trust debt. We issued $42.5 million in new securitization trust debt in 2010 in conjunction with the $50 million term funding facility.  We did not issue any new securitization trust debt in 2009.  Repayments of securitization debt were $385.2 million and $511.0 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively.     We purchase automobile contracts from dealers for a cash price approximating their principal amount, adjusted for an acquisition fee which may either increase or decrease the automobile contract purchase price. Those automobile contracts generate cash flow, however, over a period of years. As a result, we have been dependent on warehouse credit facilities to purchase automobile contracts, and on the availability of cash from outside sources in order to finance our continuing operations, as well as to fund the portion of automobile contract purchase prices not financed under revolving warehouse credit facilities.     On September 25, 2009 we established a $50 million secured revolving credit facility with Fortress Credit Corp., which will mature on September 25, 2011.  The facility is structured to allow us to fund a portion of the purchase price of automobile contracts by drawing against a floating rate variable funding note issued by our consolidated subsidiary Page Four Funding LLC.  The facility provides for advances up to 75% of eligible finance receivables and the notes under it accrue interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus 12.00% per annum, with a minimum rate of 14.00% per annum.  At December 31, 2010, $45.6 million was outstanding under this facility.   As part of the consideration given to Fortress for committing to make loans under this facility, we issued a 10-year warrant to purchase up to 1,158,087 of our common shares, at an exercise price of $0.879 per share (we refer to this as the Fortress Warrant).  Issuance of the Fortress Warrant required an adjustment to the terms of an existing outstanding warrant regarding 1,564,324 shares, reducing the exercise price of that other warrant from $1.44 per share to $1.40702 per share and increasing the number of shares available for purchase to 1,600,991.     In December 2010 we entered into a $100 million two-year warehouse credit line with affiliates of Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Fortress Investment Group.   The facility is structured to allow us to fund a portion of the purchase price of automobile contracts by drawing against a floating rate variable funding note issued by our consolidated subsidiary Page Six Funding, LLC.  The facility provides for advances up to 75% of eligible finance receivables and              35             the notes under it accrue interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus 5.00% per annum, with a minimum rate of 6.5% per annum.  There were no amounts outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2010.     Subsequent to the reporting period covered by this report, on February 24, 2011, we entered into an additional $100 million two-year warehouse credit line with UBS Real Estate Securities, Inc.  The facility revolves during the first year and amortizes during the second year.   The facility is structured to allow us to fund a portion of the purchase price of automobile contracts by drawing against a floating rate variable funding note issued by our consolidated subsidiary Page Seven Funding, LLC.  The facility provides for advances up to 76.5% of eligible finance receivables and the notes under it accrue interest at one-month LIBOR plus 6.00% per annum.     In March 2010, we entered into a $50 million term funding facility with a syndicate of note purchasers including affiliates of Angelo, Gordon & Co., L.P. and an affiliate of Cohen & Company Securities.  Under the term funding facility, the note purchasers agreed to purchase up to $50 million in asset-backed notes through December 31, 2010, subject to collateral eligibility and other terms and conditions, through the end of 2010. Amounts outstanding bear interest at a fixed rate of 11.00%, which may be decreased to 9.00% should the notes receive investment grade ratings from at least two of the following three credit rating agencies:  Moody's, Standard & Poor's, or Fitch. Principal payments on the notes are due as the underlying receivables are paid or charged off, and the final maturity is July 17, 2017.  In connection with the establishment of this term funding facility, we paid a closing fee of $750,000 and issued to certain of the note purchasers or their designees warrants to purchase 500,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.41 per share (we refer to this as the Page Five Warrant).  Issuance of the Page Five Warrant required adjustments to the terms of two existing outstanding warrants.  The first warrant related to 1,600,991 shares, on which the exercise price was decreased from $1.407 per share to $1.398 per share and the number of shares available for purchase was increased to 1,611,114.  The second affected warrant related to 283,985 shares, which was increased to 285,781 shares.  As of December 31, 2010, there was $42.5 million outstanding under the facility and no additional advances are expected to be made.     In July 2007, we established a combination term and revolving residual credit facility and have used eligible residual interests in securitizations as collateral for floating rate borrowings.  The amount that we were able to borrow was computed using an agreed valuation methodology of the residuals, subject to an overall maximum principal amount of $120 million, represented by (i) a $60 million Class A-1 variable funding note (the “revolving note”), and (ii) a $60 million Class A-2 term note (the “term note”).  The term note was fully drawn in July 2007 and was originally due in July 2009.  As of July 2008, we had drawn $26.8 million on the revolving note.  The facility’s revolving feature expired in July 2008.  On July 10, 2008 we amended the terms of the combination term and revolving residual credit facility, (i) eliminating the revolving feature and increasing the interest rate, (ii) consolidating the amounts then owing on the Class A-1 note with the Class A-2 note, (iii) establishing an amortization schedule for principal reductions on the Class A-2 note, and (iv) providing for an extension, at our option if certain conditions were met, of the Class A-2 note maturity from June 2009 to June 2010.  In June 2009 we met all such conditions and extended the maturity.  In conjunction with the amendment, we reduced the principal amount outstanding to $70 million by delivering to the lender (i) warrants valued as being equivalent to 2,500,000 common shares, or $4,071,429, and (ii) cash of $12,765,244.  The warrants represent the right to purchase 2,500,000 CPS common shares at a nominal exercise price, at any time prior to July 10, 2018.   In May 2010, we extended the maturity date from June 2010 to May 2011.  As of December 31, 2010 the aggregate indebtedness under this facility was $39.4 million.     On June 30, 2008, we entered into a series of agreements pursuant to which an affiliate of Levine Leichtman Capital Partners purchased a $10 million five-year, fixed rate, senior secured note from us.  The indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets, though not by the assets of our special-purpose financing subsidiaries.  In July 2008, in conjunction with the amendment of the combination term and revolving residual credit facility as discussed above, the lender purchased an additional $15 million note with substantially the same terms as the $10 million note.  Pursuant to the June 30, 2008 securities purchase agreement, we issued to the lender 1,225,000 shares of common stock.  In addition, we issued the lender two warrants: (i) warrants that we refer to as the FMV Warrants, which are exercisable for 1,611,114 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $1.39818 per share, and (ii) warrants that we refer to as the N Warrants, which are exercisable for 285,781 shares of our common stock, at a nominal exercise price. Both the FMV Warrants and the N Warrants are exercisable in whole or in part and at any time up to and including June 30, 2018.  We valued the warrants using the Black-Scholes valuation model and recorded their value as a liability on our balance sheet because the terms of the warrants also included a provision whereby the lender could require us to purchase the warrants for cash. That provision was eliminated by mutual              36             agreement in September 2008.   The FMV Warrants were initially exercisable to purchase 1,500,000 shares for $2.573 per share, were adjusted in connection with the July 2008 issuance of other warrants to become exercisable to purchase 1,564,324 shares at $2.4672 per share, and were further adjusted in connection with a July 2009 amendment of our option plan to become exercisable at $1.44 per share.  Upon issuance in September 2009 of the Fortress Warrant, the FMV Warrant was further adjusted to become exercisable to purchase 1,600,991 shares at an exercise price of $1.407 per share.  Upon issuance in March 2010 of the Page Five Warrant, the FMV Warrant was further adjusted to become exercisable to purchase 1,611,114 shares at an exercise price of $1.39818 per share.   In November 2009 we entered into an additional agreement with this lender whereby they purchased an additional $5 million note.  The note accrued interest at 15.0% and was repaid in December 2010 at which time the lender purchased a new $27.8 million note under substantially the same terms as the $10 million and $15 million notes already outstanding.  The $27.8 million note accrues interest at 16.0% and matures in December 2013.  Concurrent with the issuance of the $27.8 million note, the term $10 and $15 million notes were amended to change their maturity dates to December 2013.  In conjunction with the issuance of the $27.8 million note, we issued to the lender 880,000 shares of common stock and 1,870 shares of Series B convertible preferred stock.  Each share of the Series B convertible preferred stock may become exchangeable for 1,000 shares of our common stock, upon shareholder approval of such exchange, but not without shareholder approval.  At the time of issuance, the value of the common stock and Series B preferred stock was $753,000 and $1.6 million, respectively.     The acquisition of automobile contracts for subsequent sale in securitization transactions, and the need to fund spread accounts and initial overcollateralization, if any, and increase credit enhancement levels when those transactions take place, results in a continuing need for capital. The amount of capital required is most heavily dependent on the rate of our automobile contract purchases, the required level of initial credit enhancement in securitizations, and the extent to which the previously established trusts and their related spread accounts either release cash to us or capture cash from collections on securitized automobile contracts. Of those, the factor most subject to our control is the rate at which we purchase automobile contracts.     We are and may in the future be limited in our ability to purchase automobile contracts due to limits on our capital.  As of December 31, 2010, we had unrestricted cash of $16.3 million.  We had $4.4 million available under our Fortress facility and $100 million available under the Goldman facility (in both facilities advances are subject to available eligible collateral).  As stated above, we established a second $100 million revolving credit facility in February 2011.  In September 2010 we completed a securitization of previously securitized receivables, and we intend to complete securitizations regularly beginning in 2011, although there can be no assurance that we will be able to so.   Our plans to manage our liquidity include maintaining our rate of automobile contract purchases at a level that matches our available capital, and, wherever appropriate, reducing our operating costs.   If we are unable to complete such securitizations, we may be unable to increase our rate of automobile contract purchases, in which case our interest income and other portfolio related income would decrease.     Our liquidity will also be affected by releases of cash from the trusts established with our securitizations.  While the specific terms and mechanics of each spread account vary among transactions, our securitization agreements generally provide that we will receive excess cash flows, if any, only if the amount of credit enhancement has reached specified levels and/or the delinquency, defaults or net losses related to the automobile contracts in the pool are below certain predetermined levels. In the event delinquencies, defaults or net losses on the automobile contracts exceed such levels, the terms of the securitization: (i) may require increased credit enhancement to be accumulated for the particular pool; (ii) may restrict the distribution to us of excess cash flows associated with other pools; or (iii) in certain circumstances, may permit the insurers to require the transfer of servicing on some or all of the automobile contracts to another servicer. There can be no assurance that collections from the related trusts will continue to generate sufficient cash.   Moreover, most of our spread account balances are pledged as collateral to our residual interest financing.  As such, most of the current releases of cash from our securitization trusts are directed to pay the obligations of our residual interest financing.     Certain of our securitization transactions, our warehouse credit facilities and our residual interest financing contain various financial covenants requiring certain minimum financial ratios and results. Such covenants include maintaining minimum levels of liquidity and net worth and not exceeding maximum leverage levels and maximum financial losses. In addition, certain securitization and non-securitization related debt contain cross-default provisions that would allow certain creditors to declare a default if a default occurred under a different facility.     The agreements under which we receive periodic fees for servicing automobile contracts in securitizations are terminable by the respective insurance companies upon defined events of default, and, in some cases, at the will of              37             the insurance company.  We have received waivers regarding the potential breach of certain such covenants relating to minimum net worth, financial loss in any one period and maintenance of active warehouse credit facilities.  Without such waivers, certain credit enhancement providers would have had the right to terminate us as servicer with respect to certain of our outstanding securitization pools.  Although such rights have been waived, such waivers are temporary, and there can be no assurance as to their future extension. We do, however, believe that we will obtain such future extensions because it is generally not in the interest of any party to the securitization transaction to transfer servicing.  Nevertheless, there can be no assurance as to our belief being correct.  Were an insurance company in the future to exercise its option to terminate such agreements, such a termination could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations, depending on the number and value of the terminated agreements. Our note insurers continue to extend our term as servicer on a monthly and/or quarterly basis, pursuant to the servicing agreements.     The agreements for our residual interest financing, revolving credit facility and term funding facility include financial covenants which, if breached, would be an event of default.  We have entered into an amendment that avoided the potential breach of a minimum net worth covenant on the revolving credit facility.  Without such amendment, the lender could have, among other things, ceased providing funding to us for new contract purchases, terminated us as servicer of the pledged receivables and sold the pledged contracts to satisfy the debt.       Our plan for future operations and meeting the obligations of our financing arrangements includes returning to profitability by gradually increasing the amount of our contract purchases with the goal of increasing the balance of our outstanding managed portfolio.  Our plans also include financing future contract purchases with credit facilities and term securitizations that offer a lower overall cost of funds compared to the facilities we used in 2009 and 2010.  To illustrate, in the last six months of 2009 we purchased $6.1 million in contracts and our sole credit facility had a minimum interest rate of 14.00% per annum.  By comparison, in 2010, we purchased $113.0 million in contracts and, in March 2010, entered into the $50 million term funding facility which has an interest rate of 11.00% per annum and the ability to decrease such rate to 9.00% per annum if certain conditions are met.  In December 2010 we entered into a $100 million credit facility with an interest rate  of one-month LIBOR plus 5.00% per annum, with a minimum rate of 6.5% per annum, and in February 2011 we added another $100 million credit facility with an interest rate of one-month LIBOR plus 6.00% per annum.     Moreover, the weighted average effective coupon of our September 2010 term securitization was 3.21% and did not include a financial guaranty policy.  This transaction demonstrates our ability to access the lower cost of funds available in the current market environment without the financial guaranties we historically incorporated into our term securitization structures.  We expect to complete one or more term securitizations in 2011.  In addition, less competition in the auto financing marketplace has resulted in better terms for our recent contract purchases compared to prior years. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the average acquisition fee we charged per automobile contract purchased under our CPS programs was $1,382, $1,508 and $592, respectively, or 9.2%, 11.7%, and 3.9%, respectively, of the amount financed.  Similarly, the weighted average annual percentage rate of interest payable by our customers on newly purchased contracts has increased significantly: to 20.05% for 2010 from 19.9%, and 18.5% in 2009 and 2008, respectively.     We have and will continue to have a substantial amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $717.9 million of debt outstanding. Such debt consisted primarily of $567.7 million of securitization trust debt, and also included $45.6 million of a warehouse line of credit, $39.4 million of residual interest financing, $44.9 million of senior secured related party debt and $20.3 million in subordinated notes.  We are also currently offering the subordinated notes to the public on a continuous basis, and such notes have maturities that range from three months to 10 years.  The residual interest financing facility matures in May 2011 and we are in discussions with the lender regarding the extension or restructuring of the facility, as to which there can be no assurance.     Our recent operating results include net losses of $33.8 million and $57.2 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  We believe that our results have been materially and adversely affected by the disruption in the capital markets that began in the fourth quarter of 2007, by the recession that began in December 2007, and by related high levels of unemployment.  Our ability to repay or refinance maturing debt may be adversely affected by prospective lenders’ consideration of our recent operating losses.     Although we believe we are able to service and repay our debt, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. If our plans for future operations do not generate sufficient cash flows and operating profits, our ability to make              38             required payments on our debt would be impaired.  Failure to pay our indebtedness when due could have a material adverse effect and may require us to issue additional debt or equity securities.        Contractual Obligations     The following table summarizes our material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands):            Payment Due by Period (1)                       Less than          1 to 3          4 to 5          More than            Total          1 Year          Years          Years          5 Years        Long Term Debt (2)      $  104,650        $  50,948        $  53,400        $  256        $  46       Operating Leases      $  13,520        $  3,185        $  5,195        $  3,789        $  1,351               (1)    Securitization trust debt, in the aggregate amount of $567.7 million as of December 31, 2010, is omitted from this table because it becomes due as and when the related receivables balance is reduced by payments and charge-offs. Expected payments, which will depend on the performance of such receivables, as to which there can be no assurance, are $283.5 million in 2011, $191.2 million in 2012, $59.3million in 2013, $17.2 million in 2014 and $16.5 million in 2015.           (2)    Long-term debt includes residual interest debt, senior secured debt and subordinated renewable notes.           Warehouse Credit Facilities     The terms on which credit has been available to us for purchase of automobile contracts have varied in recent years, as shown in the following summary of our warehouse credit facilities:     Facility Established in September 2009.     On September 25, 2009 we established a $50 million secured revolving credit facility with Fortress Credit Corp. that will mature on September 25, 2011.  The facility is structured to allow us to fund a portion of the purchase price of automobile contracts by drawing against a floating rate variable funding note issued by our consolidated subsidiary Page Four Funding LLC.  The facility provides for advances up to 75% of eligible finance receivables and the notes under it accrue interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus 12.00% per annum, with a minimum rate of 14.00% per annum.  At December 31, 2010, $45.6 million was outstanding under this facility.     Facility Established in December 2010.     On December 23, 2010 we entered into a $100 million two-year warehouse credit line with affiliates of Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Fortress Investment Group.   The facility is structured to allow us to fund a portion of the purchase price of automobile contracts by drawing against a floating rate variable funding note issued by our consolidated subsidiary Page Six Funding, LLC.  The facility provides for advances up to 75% of eligible finance receivables and the notes under it accrue interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus 5.00% per annum, with a minimum rate of 6.5% per annum.  There were no amounts outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2010.     Facility Established in February 2011.     On February 24, 2011 we entered into a $100 million two-year warehouse credit line with affiliates of UBS AG.   The facility is structured to allow us to fund a portion of the purchase price of automobile contracts by drawing against a floating rate variable funding note issued by our consolidated subsidiary Page Seven Funding, LLC.  The facility provides for advances up to 76.5% of eligible finance receivables and the notes under it accrue interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus 6.00% per annum.  There were no amounts outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2010, as it had not yet been established.     Capital Resources     Securitization trust debt is repaid from collections on the related receivables, and becomes due in accordance with its terms as the principal amount of the related receivables is reduced. Although the securitization trust debt also has alternative final maturity dates, those dates are significantly later than the dates at which repayment of the related              39             receivables is anticipated, and at no time in our history have any of our sponsored asset-backed securities reached those alternative final maturities.     The acquisition of automobile contracts for subsequent transfer in securitization transactions, and the need to fund spread accounts and initial overcollateralization, if any, when those transactions take place, results in a continuing need for capital. The amount of capital required is most heavily dependent on the rate of our automobile contract purchases, the required level of initial credit enhancement in securitizations, and the extent to which the trusts and related spread accounts either release cash to us or capture cash from collections on securitized automobile contracts. We plan to adjust our levels of automobile contract purchases and the related capital requirements to match anticipated releases of cash from the trusts and related spread accounts.     Capitalization     Over the period from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010 we have managed our capitalization by issuing and refinancing debt as summarized in the following table:                  Year Ended December 31,              2010          2009               (Dollars in thousands)                 RESIDUAL INTEREST FINANCING:                       Beginning balance      $  56,930        $  67,300            Issuances                              Payments         (17,490  )        (10,370  )    Ending balance      $  39,440        $  56,930                                    SECURITIZATION TRUST DEBT:                             Beginning balance      $  904,833        $  1,404,211            Issuances         42,465                      Payments         (379,576  )        (499,378  )    Ending balance      $  567,722        $  904,833                                    SENIOR SECURED DEBT, RELATED PARTY:                             Beginning balance      $  26,118        $  20,105            Issuances         27,750           5,000            Payments         (5,000  )                   Debt discount net of amortization         (3,995  )        1,013       Ending balance      $  44,873        $  26,118                                    SUBORDINATED RENEWABLE NOTES:                             Beginning balance      $  21,965        $  25,721            Issuances         2,685           2,424            Payments         (4,313  )        (6,180  )    Ending balance      $  20,337        $  21,965           Residual Interest Financing.       In July 2007, we established a combination term and revolving residual credit facility and have used eligible residual interests in securitizations as collateral for floating rate borrowings.  The amount that we were able to borrow was computed using an agreed valuation methodology of the residuals, subject to an overall maximum principal amount of $120 million, represented by (i) a $60 million Class A-1 variable funding note (the “revolving note”), and (ii) a $60 million Class A-2 term note (the “term note”).  The term note was fully drawn in July 2007 and was originally due in July 2009.  As of July 2008, we had drawn $26.8 million on the revolving note.  The facility’s revolving feature expired in July 2008.  On July 10, 2008 we amended the terms of the combination term and revolving residual credit facility, (i) eliminating the revolving feature and increasing the interest rate, (ii) consolidating the amounts then owing on the Class A-1 note with the Class A-2 note, (iii) establishing an amortization schedule for principal reductions on the Class A-2 note, and (iv) providing for an extension, at our option if certain conditions were met, of the Class A-2 note maturity from June 2009 to June 2010.  In June 2009 we met all such conditions and extended the maturity.  In conjunction with the amendment, we reduced the principal amount outstanding to $70 million by delivering to the lender (i) warrants valued as being equivalent to 2,500,000              40             common shares, or $4,071,429, and (ii) cash of $12,765,244.  The warrants represent the right to purchase 2,500,000 CPS common shares at a nominal exercise price, at any time prior to July 10, 2018.   In May 2010, we extended the maturity date from June 2010 to May 2011.  As of December 31, 2010 the aggregate indebtedness under this facility was $39.4 million.     Securitization Trust Debt.   From July 2003 through April 2008, we have, for financial accounting purposes, treated securitizations of automobile contracts as secured financings, and the asset-backed securities issued in such securitizations remain on our balance sheet as securitization trust debt.  Our two most recent securitizations, in September 2008 and the re-securitization of the remaining receivables from such transaction in September 2010, were each structured as a sale for financial accounting purposes and the asset-backed securities issued in those transactions have not been and are not on our balance sheet.     Senior Secured Debt.   From 1998 to 2005, we entered into a series of financing transactions with Levine Leichtman Capital Partners II, L.P.  In July 2007 we repaid the final amounts due under these financing transactions.   On June 30, 2008, we entered into a series of agreements pursuant to which a different but related lender Levine Leichtman Capital Partners IV, L.P., purchased a $10 million five-year, fixed rate, senior secured note from us.  The indebtedness is secured by substantially all of our assets, though not by the assets of our special-purpose financing subsidiaries.  In July 2008, in conjunction with the amendment of the combination term and revolving residual credit facility as discussed above, the lender purchased an additional $15 million note with substantially the same terms as the $10 million note.  Pursuant to the June 30, 2008 securities purchase agreement, we issued to the lender 1,225,000 shares of common stock.  In addition, we issued the lender two warrants: (i) warrants that we refer to as the FMV Warrants, which are exercisable for 1,611,114 shares of our common stock, at an exercise price of $1.39818 per share, and (ii) warrants that we refer to as the N Warrants, which are exercisable for 285,781 shares of our common stock, at a nominal exercise price. Both the FMV Warrants and the N Warrants are exercisable in whole or in part and at any time up to and including June 30, 2018.  We valued the warrants using the Black-Scholes valuation model and recorded their value as a liability on our balance sheet because the terms of the warrants also included a provision whereby the lender could require us to purchase the warrants for cash. That provision was eliminated by mutual agreement in September 2008.   The FMV Warrants were initially exercisable to purchase 1,500,000 shares for $2.573 per share, were adjusted in connection with the July 2008 issuance of other warrants to become exercisable to purchase 1,564,324 shares at $2.4672 per share, and were further adjusted in connection with a July 2009 amendment of our option plan to become exercisable at $1.44 per share.  Upon issuance in September 2009 of the Fortress Warrant, the FMV Warrant was further adjusted to become exercisable to purchase 1,600,991 shares at an exercise price of $1.407 per share.  Upon issuance in March 2010 of the Page Five Warrant, the FMV Warrant was further adjusted to become exercisable to purchase 1,611,114 shares at an exercise price of $1.39818 per share.     In November 2009 we entered into an additional agreement with this lender under which they purchased an additional $5 million note.  The note accrued interest at 15.0% and was repaid in December 2010, at which time the lender purchased a new $27.8 million note under substantially the same terms as the $10 million and $15 million notes already outstanding.  The $27.8 million note accrues interest at 16.0% and matures in December 2013.  Concurrent with the issuance of the $27.8 million note, the term of the $10 and $15 million notes were amended to change their maturity dates to December 2013.  In conjunction with the issuance of the $27.8  million note, we issued to the lender 880,000 shares of common stock and 1,870 shares of Series B convertible preferred stock.  Each share of the Series B convertible preferred stock may become exchangeable for 1,000 shares of our common stock, upon shareholder approval of such exchange, but not without shareholder approval.  At the time of issuance, the value of the common stock and Series B preferred stock was $753,000 and $1.6 million, respectively.        Subordinated Renewable Notes Debt.    In June 2005, we began issuing registered subordinated renewable notes in an ongoing offering to the public.  Upon maturity, the notes are automatically renewed for the same term as the maturing notes, unless we elect not to have the notes renewed or unless the investor notifies us within 15 days after the maturity date for his notes that he wants his notes repaid.  Renewed notes bear interest at the rate we are offering at that time to other investors with similar note maturities.  Based on the terms of the individual notes, interest payments may be required monthly, quarterly, annually or upon maturity.  In July 2010, we discovered that, under a rule of the SEC, we were no longer permitted to offer and sell our subordinated renewable notes in reliance on the registration statement (the “Former Registration Statement”) that we initially filed in January 2005.  Consequently, purchasers who acquired such notes between January 1, 2010 and December 13, 2010 (the effective date of a new registration statement that we then filed to register such sales) may have had at December 31, 2010, a statutory right to rescind their purchases.  At any time, such potential rescission right may relate to any such notes sold (i) within the one-year period immediately preceding, and (ii) prior to the December 13, 2010 effectiveness of the new              41             registration statement.  As a result of such sales, we could be required to repurchase some or all of such notes at the original sale price plus statutory interest, less the amount of any income received by the purchasers.  From January 1, 2010 to December 13, 2010, we sold a total of $11.3 million of notes, including renewals of previously sold notes, but excluding notes that we repaid.  We have not received any indication that any purchaser of such notes intends to seek rescission.     We must comply with certain affirmative and negative covenants related to debt facilities, which require, among other things, that we maintain certain financial ratios related to liquidity, net worth, capitalization, investments, acquisitions, restricted payments and certain dividend restrictions.   In addition, certain securitization and non-securitization related debt contain cross-default provisions that would allow certain creditors to declare default if a default occurred under a different facility. We have received waivers regarding the potential breach of financial covenants for our residual financing facility and certain of our securitization debt structures.     Forward-looking Statements     This report on Form 10-K includes certain  " forward-looking statements ".  Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as  " anticipates, "   " expects, "   " plans, "   " estimates, "  or words of like meaning. As to the specifically identified forward-looking statements, factors that could affect charge-offs and recovery rates include changes in the general economic climate, which could affect the willingness or ability of obligors to pay pursuant to the terms of contracts, changes in laws respecting consumer finance, which could affect our ability to enforce rights under contracts, and changes in the market for used vehicles, which could affect the levels of recoveries upon sale of repossessed vehicles. Factors that could affect our revenues in the current year include the levels of cash releases from existing pools of contracts, which would affect our ability to purchase contracts, the terms on which we are able to finance such purchases, the willingness of dealers to sell contracts to us on the terms that it offers, and the terms on which we are able to complete term securitizations once contracts are acquired. Factors that could affect our expenses in the current year include competitive conditions in the market for qualified personnel, investor demand for asset-backed securities and interest rates (which affect the rates that we pay on asset-backed securities issued in our securitizations).   The statements concerning structuring securitization transactions as secured financings and the effects of such structures on financial items and on future profitability also are forward-looking statements. Any change to the structure of our securitization transaction could cause such forward-looking statements not to be accurate. Both the amount of the effect of the change in structure on our profitability and the duration of the period in which our profitability would be affected by the change in securitization structure are estimates. The accuracy of such estimates will be affected by the rate at which we purchase and sell contracts, any changes in that rate, the credit performance of such contracts, the financial terms of future securitizations, any changes in such terms over time, and other factors that generally affect our profitability.     New Accounting Pronouncements         In June 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-17, Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities (FAS 167, Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)). This standard amends several key consolidation provisions related to variable interest entity (“VIE”), which are included in FASB ASC 810, Consolidation to require a company to analyze whether its interest in a VIE gives it a controlling financial interest. A company must assess whether it has an implicit financial responsibility to ensure that the VIE operates as designed when determining whether it has the power to direct the activities of the VIE that significantly impact its economic performance. Ongoing reassessment of whether a company is the primary beneficiary is also required by the standard. This standard amends the criteria to qualify as a primary beneficiary as well as how to determine the existence of a VIE. This standard is effective for us beginning with the first quarter in 2010. Comparative disclosures will be required for periods after the effective date. The Company adopted this new accounting pronouncement as of January 1, 2010 and the impact of adoption was not material on the consolidated financial statements.     In July 2010, the FASB issued FASB ASU 2010-20,  Receivables (Topic 310) – Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses , which required more information about credit quality. The ASU introduces the term “financing receivables”, which includes loans, trade accounts receivable, notes receivable, credit cards, leveraged leases, direct financing leases, and sales-type leases. The term does not include receivables measured at fair value or the lower of cost of fair value and debt securities among others. It also defines two levels of disaggregation for disclosure: portfolio segment and class of financing receivables. A portfolio segment is defined as the level at which an entity determines its allowance for credit losses. A class of financing receivable is defined as a group of finance receivables determined on the basis of their initial measurement attribute (i.e., amortized cost of purchased credit impaired), risk characteristics, and an entity’s method              42             for monitoring and assessing credit risk. The ASU requires an entity to provide additional disclosures including, but not limited to, a rollforward schedule of the allowance for credit losses (with the ending allowance balance further disaggregated based on impairment methodology) and the related ending balance of the finance receivable presented by portfolio segment, and the aging of past due financing receivables at the end of the period, the nature and extent of troubled debt restructurings that occurred during the period and their impact on the allowance for credit losses, the nature and extend of troubled debt restructurings that occurred within the last year, that have defaulted in the current reporting period, and their impact on the allowance for credit losses, the nonaccrual status of financing receivables, and impaired financing receivables, presented by class. The extensive new disclosures of information as of the end of a reporting period will become effective for both interim and annual reporting periods ending after December 15, 2010 for public companies. Specific items regarding activity that occurred before the issuance of the ASU, such as the allowance rollforward and modification disclosures will be required for periods beginning after December 15, 2010 for public companies. We adopted this pronouncement as disclosed in Note 7.    In January 2011, the FASB issued FASB ASU 2011-01,  Receivables (Topic 310) – Deferral of the Effective Date of Disclosures about Troubled Debt Restructurings in Update No. 2010-20 , which deferred the effective date of the disclosure requirements for public entities about troubled debt restructurings in ASU 2010-20, to be concurrent with the effective date of the guidance for troubled debt restructuring which is currently anticipated to be effective for interim and annual periods after June 15, 2011. The Company does not anticipate the new guidance will have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements     From July 2003 through April 2008 all of our securitizations were structured as secured financings for financial accounting purposes. In September 2008, we securitized $198.7 million of our automobile contracts in a structure that is treated as a sale of the receivables for financial accounting purposes.  The terms of the September 2008 securitization provide for us (1) to continue servicing the sold portfolio, (2) to retain a 5.0% interest in the bonds issued by the trust to which we sold the automobile contracts and (3) to earn additional compensation contingent upon (a) the return to the holders of the senior bonds issued by the trust reaching certain targets or (b) “lifetime” cumulative net charge-offs on the automobile contracts being below a pre-determined level.  In September 2010 we re-securitized the remaining receivables from the September 2008 transaction in a similar "off balance sheet" structure.  The September 2010 transaction is treated as a sale of the receivables for financial accounting purposes.  See "Critical Accounting Policies" for a detailed discussion of our securitization structure.     Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     Interest Rate Risk     We are subject to interest rate risk during the period between when contracts are purchased from dealers and when such contracts become part of a term securitization. Specifically, the interest rate due on our warehouse credit facilities are adjustable while the interest rates on the contracts are fixed. Historically, our term securitizations have had fixed rates of interest. To mitigate some of this risk, we have in the past, and generally intend to continue to structure our term securitization transactions to include pre-funding structures, whereby the amount of notes issued exceeds the amount of contracts initially sold to the trusts. In pre-funding, the proceeds from the pre-funded portion are held in an escrow account until we sell the additional contracts to the trust in amounts up to the balance of the pre-funded escrow account. In pre-funded securitizations, we lock in the borrowing costs with respect to the contracts we subsequently deliver to the trust. However, we incur an expense in pre-funded securitizations equal to the difference between the money market yields earned on the proceeds held in escrow prior to subsequent delivery of contracts and the interest rate paid on the notes outstanding, the amount as to which there can be no assurance.     Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 