-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 SVP5Wipnm/vQKrajYuzlKoBmyh/sir9Y/TVFhxHDxsrDhLesacSCwFCR+4V6fZNg
 OZfzY2Gzq9rOw9PWe+Ux9w==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950134-03-003591.txt : 20030310
<SEC-HEADER>0000950134-03-003591.hdr.sgml : 20030310
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20030307194616
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-03-003591
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20021231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20030310

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			WESTPORT RESOURCES CORP /NV/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000889005
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS [1311]
		IRS NUMBER:				133869719
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NV
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14256
		FILM NUMBER:		03597069

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		767 FIFTH AVE
		STREET 2:		46TH FL
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10153
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2126442200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		767 FIFTH AVE
		STREET 2:		46TH FL
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10153

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BELCO OIL & GAS CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19960207
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>d03825e10vk.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                             ---------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

<Table>
<C>        <S>
(Mark One)
   [X]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

           FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002

                                  OR


   [ ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

           FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO        .
</Table>

                       COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 001-14256
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

<Table>
<S>                                            <C>
                    NEVADA                                       13-3869719
   (State of incorporation or organization)                   (I.R.S. Employer
                                                            Identification No.)
</Table>

                           1670 BROADWAY, SUITE 2800
                             DENVER, COLORADO 80202
                    (Address of principal executive offices)
                                   (Zip code)

              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER INCLUDING AREA CODE):
                                 (303) 573-5404

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

<Table>
<Caption>
                    EACH CLASS                           NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
                    ----------                           -----------------------------------------
<S>                                                 <C>
      Common Stock, par value $.01 per share                      New York Stock Exchange
6 1/2% Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $.01
                      per share                                   New York Stock Exchange
</Table>

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE
                                (Title of class)

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]    No [ ]

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [ ]

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2)  Yes [X]    No [ ]

    The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 28, 2002 (the last business day of
the Registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter) was
approximately $269,947,165. The number of shares of the Registrant's common
stock outstanding as of March 3, 2003, was 66,793,522.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Parts of the definitive proxy statement for the Registrant's 2003 annual
meeting of stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form
10-K.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>

                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                        PAGE
                                                                        ----
<S>       <C>                                                           <C>
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.....................    2
<Caption>
ITEM NO.
- --------
<S>       <C>                                                           <C>
                                   PART I


Item 1.   Business....................................................    3
Item 2.   Properties..................................................   24
Item 3.   Legal Proceedings...........................................   32
Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.........   32

                                  PART II


Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
          Stockholder Matters.........................................   33
Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.....................................   34
Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
          and Results of Operations...................................   35
Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
          Risk........................................................   47
Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.................   50
Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
          and Financial Disclosure....................................   50

                                  PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant..........   51
Item 11.  Executive Compensation......................................   51
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
          Management..................................................   51
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..............   51
Item 14.  Control and Procedures......................................   51

                                  PART IV


Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form
          8-K.........................................................   51
Signatures............................................................   57
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements............................  F-1
</Table>

                                        1
<PAGE>

               SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Our disclosure and analysis in this report, including information
incorporated by reference, includes forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities
Act, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange
Act, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that are subject
to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements give our current
expectations and projections relating to the acquisition, which closed on
December 17, 2002, of certain natural gas properties and midstream gathering and
compression assets located in Utah from certain affiliates of El Paso
Corporation, and the financial condition, results of operations, plans,
objectives, future performance and business of Westport Resources Corporation
and its subsidiaries. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do
not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These statements may include
words such as "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan,"
"believe" and other words and expressions of similar meaning in connection with
any discussion of the timing or nature of future operating or financial
performance or other events. All statements other than statements of historical
facts included in this report that address activities, events or developments
that we expect, believe or anticipate will or may occur in the future are
forward-looking statements including, among other things, statements relating
to:

     - amount, nature and timing of capital expenditures;

     - amount,

     - projected drilling of wells;

     - reserve estimates;

     - timing and amount of future production of oil and natural gas;

     - operating costs and other expenses;

     - cash flow, anticipated liquidity and prospects for growth;

     - estimates of proved reserves and exploitation and exploration
       opportunities; and

     - marketing of oil and natural gas.

     These forward-looking statements are based on our expectations and beliefs
concerning future events affecting us and are subject to uncertainties and
factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are
difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Although we
believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are
reasonable, we do not know whether our expectations will prove correct. Any or
all of our forward-looking statements in this report may turn out to be wrong.
They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in our discussion in
this report, including the risks outlined under "Risk Factors," will be
important in determining future results. Actual future results may vary
materially. Because of these factors, we caution that investors should not place
undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements. Further, any
forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made, and
except as required by law we undertake no obligation to update any
forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on
which it is made or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated
events or circumstances.

                                        2
<PAGE>

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

ABOUT WESTPORT

     Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, all
references in this report to "Westport," the "Company," "us," "our," or "we" are
to Westport Resources Corporation, a Nevada corporation, and its consolidated
subsidiaries. On December 17, 2002, we closed, effective as of June 1, 2002, the
acquisition, also referred to as the Acquisition, of certain natural gas
properties and midstream gathering and compression assets located in the Uinta
Basin,Utah, also referred to as the Acquired Properties, from certain affiliates
of El Paso Corporation. We have provided definitions for some of the oil and
natural gas industry terms used in this report in the "Glossary of Oil and
Natural Gas Terms" beginning on page 21.

     We are an independent energy company engaged in oil and natural gas
exploitation, acquisition and exploration activities primarily in the United
States. Based upon production levels during the fourth quarter of 2002, we are
among the 20 largest domestic independent exploration and production companies.
Our reserves and operations are concentrated in the following divisions:
Northern, which primarily includes properties in North Dakota and Wyoming;
Western, which includes the Acquired Properties in the Uinta Basin; Southern,
which primarily includes properties in Oklahoma, Texas and Louisiana; and Gulf
of Mexico, which includes our offshore properties. We focus on maintaining a
balanced portfolio of lower-risk, long-life onshore reserves and higher-margin
offshore reserves to provide a diversified cash flow foundation for our
exploitation, acquisition and exploration activities.

     On December 17, 2002, we closed, effective as of June 1, 2002, the
Acquisition of producing properties, undeveloped leasehold, gathering and
compression facilities and other related assets in the Greater Natural Buttes
area of Uintah County, Utah for approximately $507 million. The Greater Natural
Buttes field is a core asset with a reserve to production ratio of over 20
years. The Acquisition increased our reserves by approximately 60%, raised
production by approximately 19% and replaced nearly 459% of our 2002 production.
The Acquired Properties contain over 600 proved undeveloped locations, with
additional exploitation and exploration opportunities on our 244,000 net acres
of leasehold.

     In addition to our acquisition activity, we successfully executed a series
of capital market transactions, refinanced our revolving credit facility to
expand our borrowing capacity by approximately 17% and increased our shareholder
float by approximately 89%. These transactions include the private offering of
$300 million of our 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes Due 2011, at an effective
yield of approximately 7 5/8%, which we completed in December 2002.
Concurrently, we closed the public offering of 11.5 million shares of our common
stock at a price of $19.90 per share. These two transactions together generated
net proceeds of approximately $517 million, which were used to fund the
Acquisition. In December 2002, we also entered into a credit facility, referred
to as the Revolving Credit Facility, with JPMorgan Chase Bank and Credit Suisse
First Boston Corporation to replace our previous revolving credit facility. The
Revolving Credit Facility provides for a maximum committed amount of $600
million, with an initial borrowing base of approximately $470 million and a
maturity date of December 16, 2006. In November 2002, we completed a private
placement of 3.125 million shares of our common stock to certain qualified
institutional buyers at a net price to us of $16.00 per share and received
aggregate proceeds of $50 million in connection with this transaction.

     Over the last several years acquisitions and subsequent exploitation have
fueled growth in our reserves, production and cash flow. From December 31, 1997
to December 31, 2002, we increased our estimated proved reserves from 197 Bcfe
to 1,580 Bcfe, a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 52%. Over the
same period we increased average daily production from 66 Mmcfe/d to 356
Mmcfe/d, a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 40%. This increased
our reserve to production ratio from approximately 7 years to approximately 10
years. Our reserve and production growth has been complemented by consistent
reductions in our per unit cost structure over the same period from $1.32 per
Mcfe to $1.12 per Mcfe of our net production for lease operating expenses,
transportation costs, production taxes and general and administrative costs. For
the twelve months ended December 31, 2002, we generated oil and natural gas
sales of $429 million.

                                        3
<PAGE>

     We believe that our exploration and exploitation inventory and our
acquisition expertise, together with our operating experience and cost
structure, provide us with the ability to generate substantial current cash flow
and position us for future growth. We operate approximately 77% of the net
present value of our reserves, allowing us to better manage expenses, capital
allocation and the decision-making processes related to all aspects of
exploitation and exploration activities. Our capital expenditures for 2002 were
approximately $163.5 million, which does not include acquisitions. We expect
that our total 2003 capital budget, excluding acquisitions, will be
approximately $230 million, 75% of which has been allocated to exploitation. We
anticipate drilling between 275 and 350 wells during 2003.

     As of December 31, 2002, our estimated proved reserves of 1,580 Bcfe had a
pre-tax net present value, discounted at 10%, of approximately $2.4 billion
based on year end NYMEX prices of $31.23 per barrel of oil and $4.58 per Mmbtu
of natural gas. Approximately 66% of our reserves were classified as proved
developed as of December 31, 2002. The following table sets forth the volume and
net present value of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2002 and a
summary of our fourth quarter 2002 production by division:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                       AT DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                             ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                  NET PRESENT VALUE
                          QUARTER ENDED                  PROVED RESERVE QUANTITIES                  BEFORE INCOME
                       {DECEMBER 31, 2002    -------------------------------------------------         TAXES(2)
                        AVERAGE NET DAILY                                                        --------------------
                           PRODUCTION                                  NATURAL GAS
                       -------------------   CRUDE OIL   NATURAL GAS     LIQUIDS       TOTAL       AMOUNT
DIVISION               MMCFE/D    PERCENT     (MMBBL)       (BCF)        (MMBBL)     (BCFE)(1)   (MILLIONS)   PERCENT
- --------               --------   --------   ---------   -----------   -----------   ---------   ----------   -------
<S>                    <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>         <C>          <C>
Northern.............    107.3      28.5%      34.3          146.9          --          352.9     $  514.9      21.4%
Western (3)..........     11.1       2.9%       1.2          589.3          --          596.1        554.7      23.1%
Southern.............    150.6      40.0%      36.7          255.4          --          475.6        876.9      36.4%
Gulf of Mexico.......    107.5      28.6%       7.0          109.8         0.5          155.0        459.3      19.1%
                        ------     -----       ----        -------         ---        -------     --------     -----
     Total...........    376.5     100.0%      79.2        1,101.4         0.5        1,579.6     $2,405.8     100.0%
                        ======     =====       ====        =======         ===        =======     ========     =====
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Mmbbls converted to Bcfe at a six to one conversion.

(2) Excludes value attributable to the gathering and compression assets of
    Westport Field Services, LLC, one of our subsidiaries.

(3) Includes production from the Acquisition closing date of December 17, 2002
    through December 31, 2002.

OUR STRATEGY

     Our strategy is to grow our reserve base and production, maintain our
diversified risk profile and expand our investment opportunities primarily by
executing on lower-risk exploitation projects and acquisitions. Although our
emphasis is on exploitation and acquisition activities, we will continue
drilling potentially higher-impact exploration prospects, thereby balancing
risks while maintaining significant potential for growth. To accomplish this
strategy, we will:

     - enhance our exploitation activity by allocating approximately 75% of our
       capital budget to exploitation to increase production and enhance our
       reserve base;

     - continue our acquisition activity to achieve greater immediate cash flow
       and expand our exploitation inventory;

     - continue to generate and drill an extensive prospect inventory by
       applying current technology and leveraging our significant operational
       capabilities and acreage inventory; and

     - maintain financial flexibility and a conservative capital structure
       through prudent financial and hedging activities.

                                        4
<PAGE>

COMPANY HISTORY

     Westport was formed by the merger on April 7, 2000 of Westport Oil and Gas
Company, Inc., which we refer to as Westport Oil and Gas, and Equitable
Production (Gulf) Company, which we refer to as EPGC, an indirect, wholly owned
subsidiary of Equitable Resources, Inc. As a result of the merger, Westport Oil
and Gas became a wholly owned subsidiary of EPGC, which subsequently changed its
name to Westport Resources Corporation, and the stockholders of Westport Oil and
Gas became the majority stockholders of EPGC. The senior management team of
Westport Oil and Gas became the management team for the combined company,
complemented by certain key managers from EPGC. The merger between EPGC and
Westport Oil and Gas was accounted for using purchase accounting with Westport
Oil and Gas as the surviving accounting entity. Westport began consolidating the
results of EPGC with the results of Westport Oil and Gas as of the April 7, 2000
closing date.

     On August 21, 2001, the stockholders of Belco Oil and Gas Corp., or Belco,
approved an agreement and plan of merger, dated as of June 8, 2001, between
Belco and Westport. Pursuant to this agreement, Westport was merged with and
into Belco, with Belco surviving and changing its name to Westport Resources
Corporation. The merger was accounted for as a purchase transaction for
financial accounting purposes with Westport as the surviving accounting entity.
Westport began consolidating the results of Belco with its results as of the
August 21, 2001 closing date.

     We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada. Our principal
offices are located at 1670 Broadway Street, Suite 2800, Denver, Colorado 80202.
Our telephone number is (303) 573-5404, and our web site can be found at
www.westportresourcescorp.com.

PURCHASERS AND MARKETING

     Our oil and natural gas production is principally sold to marketers and
other purchasers having access to nearby pipeline facilities. In areas where
there is no practical access to pipelines, oil is trucked to storage facilities.
Our marketing of oil and natural gas can be affected by factors beyond our
control, the effects of which cannot be accurately predicted. For 2002, our
largest purchaser was Conoco Inc., which accounted for 10% of our oil and
natural gas sales. No other purchasers accounted for more than 10% of our oil
and natural gas sales. We do not believe, however, that the loss of any of our
purchasers would have a material adverse effect on our operations.

     We periodically enter into commodity derivative contracts (future
contracts, swaps or options) in order to (i) reduce the effect of the volatility
of price changes on the commodities we produce and sell, (ii) support our annual
capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) lock in prices to protect the
economics related to certain capital projects. See "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a
description of our hedging activities, "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for
information concerning the impact to revenues during 2002, 2001 and 2000 from
our commodity derivative activities, our open derivative positions and related
prices.

SEASONALITY

     Demand for natural gas has historically been seasonal, with peak demand and
typically higher prices occurring during the colder winter months.

COMPETITION

     We compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies.
Because oil and natural gas are commodities that are sold by hundreds of
competitors, we cannot identify with certainty which of our competitors are
material competitors. Some of our competitors have substantially greater
financial and other resources than we do. In addition, larger competitors may be
able to absorb the burden of any changes in Federal, state and local laws and
regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our

                                        5
<PAGE>

competitive position. Our competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory
prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to
define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and
prospects than we can. Further, these companies may enjoy technological
advantages and may be able to implement new technologies more rapidly than we
can. Our ability to explore for oil and natural gas prospects and to acquire
additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to conduct
operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties, implement advanced
technologies and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive
environment.

REGULATION

     Federal Regulation of Sales and Transportation of Natural
Gas.  Historically, the transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in
interstate commerce have been regulated pursuant to the Natural Gas Act of 1938,
or NGA, the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 and the regulations promulgated there
under by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or the FERC. In the past, the
Federal government has regulated the prices at which natural gas could be sold.
Deregulation of natural gas sales by producers began with the enactment of the
Natural Gas Policy Act. In 1989, Congress enacted the Natural Gas Wellhead
Decontrol Act, which removed all remaining NGA and Natural Gas Policy Act price
and non-price controls affecting producer sales of natural gas effective January
1, 1993. Congress could, however, reenact price controls in the future.

     Our sales of natural gas are affected by the availability, terms and cost
of pipeline transportation. The price and terms for access to pipeline
transportation remain subject to extensive Federal regulation. Commencing in
April 1992, the FERC issued Order No. 636 and a series of related orders, which
required interstate pipelines to provide open-access transportation on a basis
that is equal for all natural gas suppliers. The FERC has stated that it intends
for Order No. 636 to foster increased competition within all phases of the
natural gas industry. Although Order No. 636 does not directly regulate our
production and marketing activities, it does affect how buyers and sellers gain
access to the necessary transportation facilities and how we and our competitors
sell natural gas in the marketplace. The courts have largely affirmed the
significant features of Order No. 636 and the numerous related orders pertaining
to individual pipelines.

     In subsequent action, the FERC issued Order No. 637 and a series of related
orders, which are intended to institute incremental reforms to the Order No. 636
regulatory model. The FERC's stated purpose in Order No. 637 is to "improve the
efficiency of the market and to provide captive customers with the opportunity
to reduce their cost of holding long-term pipeline capacity while continuing to
protect against the exercise of market power." Order No. 637, among other
things, (i) removed price caps on short-term (less than 12 months in duration)
capacity release transactions through September 30, 2002, (ii) authorizes
pipelines to implement peak and off-peak rates for short-term services and
term-differentiated rates, (iii) requires pipelines to offer enhanced imbalance
management services and to implement netting and trading of transportation
imbalances, (iv) limits the use of pipeline penalties, and (v) provides
increased transparency through enhanced posting of transactional information on
pipelines' websites. Order No. 637 was implemented through compliance filings by
pipelines, on which shippers were afforded the opportunity to comment. The FERC
has now issued a number of orders in pipeline compliance proceedings, resolving
most of the issues raised by the compliance filings. Pipeline interests and
other parties challenged certain aspects of Order No. 637 on judicial review. In
a decision issued in 2002, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit upheld almost all material aspects of Order No. 637.

     The Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, or OCSLA, requires that all
pipelines operating on or across the Outer Continental Shelf, or OCS, provide
open-access, nondiscriminatory service. In mid-2000, the FERC issued Order Nos.
639 and 639-A, imposing reporting requirements on gas pipelines operating on the
OCS that are not subject to regulation under the NGA. The stated purpose of
these reporting requirements is to provide transparency for shippers on OCS gas
pipelines in order to aid in detecting discriminatory conduct. Pipeline
interests challenged the reporting requirements before the U.S. District Court
for the District of Columbia on the ground that Congress did not delegate
rulemaking authority to the FERC to implement the nondiscrimination requirement
in Section 5(f) of the OCSLA. In January 2002, the District Court ruled in the
pipelines' favor, entering a permanent injunction against the OCS pipeline
reporting requirements. The

                                        6
<PAGE>

FERC and certain producer/shipper interests have now appealed to the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. The case has now been briefed and will likely
be argued to the Court before summer with a decision expected before year-end.
If it is ultimately determined on judicial review that the FERC does not have
authority to implement reporting requirements for OCS pipelines, it will be
difficult for producers on the OCS to enforce the nondiscrimination requirement
in the statute, thus raising the possibility of increased discriminatory conduct
by OCS gas pipelines.

     Commencing in May 1994, the FERC issued a series of orders that, among
other matters, slightly broadened the types of facilities that would be found to
be non-jurisdictional gathering facilities and reaffirmed that, except in
situations in which the gatherer acts in concert with an interstate pipeline
affiliate to frustrate the FERC's transportation policies, it does not have
pervasive jurisdiction over natural gas gathering facilities and services, and
that such facilities and services located in state jurisdictions are most
properly regulated by state authorities. This FERC action may further encourage
regulatory scrutiny of natural gas gathering by state agencies. We do not
believe that we will be affected by these developments any differently than
other natural gas producers, gatherers and marketers.

     Concurrently with the transfer of gathering facilities onshore, a number of
interstate pipelines requested authority to have their facilities on the OCS
declared a non-jurisdictional gathering. Many of the pipelines on the OCS are
large-capacity lines that move up to one Bcf of gas per day. Although the
jurisdictional test for OCS facilities is somewhat different from the test used
onshore, the general trend since 1994 has been toward an increasing number of
facilities being viewed as non-jurisdictional gathering by the FERC. A major
test case involving the Sea Robin Pipeline system was decided by a panel of the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in August 2002. A two-judge majority
upheld the FERC's "central point of aggregation" test for determining
jurisdictional status of OCS pipelines. Under that test, the dividing line
between non-jurisdictional gathering and jurisdictional transportation is
generally identified as being located at the last major fork on the pipeline
before it goes onshore. Producer interests have now sought review of the D.C.
Circuit's decision in the United States Supreme Court. Action on the petitions
for writs of certiorari is expected by mid-2003. If the D.C. Circuit's decision
stands, producers on the OCS could be exposed to higher rates for gathering
services over former jurisdictional facilities downstream of production
platforms.

     In a related development, the FERC addressed a complaint by an OCS gas
producer in 2002 stemming from the transfer by an interstate pipeline of
formerly jurisdictional facilities on the OCS to a non-regulated gathering
affiliate. Soon after receiving the facilities, the non-regulated affiliate
instituted a three-fold rate increase to certain shippers. In an order issued in
September 2002, the FERC determined that the gathering affiliate and the
interstate pipeline had acted in concert to frustrate the effective regulation
of transportation of natural gas interstate commerce on the pipeline. The FERC
reasserted jurisdiction over the gathering affiliate and directed it to
institute a prospective reduction in rates to a cost-of-service rate. The FERC's
order is now being challenged on rehearing by the interstate pipeline and its
gathering affiliate. Because the FERC's order involves an untested legal theory,
it is difficult to predict the extent to which the FERC will be permitted to
reassert jurisdiction over former jurisdictional facilities that have been found
to be used for non-jurisdictional gathering.

     If the FERC ultimately decides that it should regulate fewer OCS facilities
under the NGA and such determination is upheld on judicial review, or if it is
determined that the FERC's jurisdiction over crude oil and natural gas
transportation on the OCS is more limited than previously asserted, we could
face higher transmission costs for our OCS natural gas production and, possibly,
reduced access to OCS transmission capacity. Upon the successful development of
our offshore exploration projects, we expect to own and operate facilities that
we believe will be gathering lines. If the FERC should decide to classify lines
on the OCS that traditionally have been viewed as gathering lines as
jurisdictional transmission lines, our OCS facilities could be subject to
regulation as interstate pipelines. However, given the limited scope of such
facilities, it is not expected that such regulation would have a material impact
on our operations or business.

     Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the natural gas
industry are pending before Congress, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
and the courts. The natural gas industry historically has

                                        7
<PAGE>

been very heavily regulated; therefore, we can offer you no assurance that the
less stringent regulatory approach recently pursued by the FERC and Congress
will continue.

     Federal Leases.  A substantial portion of our operations is located on
Federal oil and natural gas leases, which are administered by the Bureau of Land
Management (onshore) and Minerals Management Service (offshore) of the U.S.
Department of the Interior and other agencies. Such leases are issued through
competitive bidding, contain relatively standardized terms and require
compliance with detailed Bureau of Land Management and Minerals Management
Service regulations and orders pursuant to the Mineral Lands Leasing Act, OCSLA
and other Federal statutes (which are subject to interpretation and change by
the agencies charged with their administration).

     For offshore operations, lessees must obtain Minerals Management Service,
or MMS, approval for exploration plans and exploitation and production plans
prior to the commencement of such operations. In addition to permits required
from other agencies (such as the Coast Guard, the Army Corps of Engineers and
the Environmental Protection Agency), lessees must obtain a permit from the MMS
prior to the commencement of drilling. The MMS has promulgated regulations
requiring offshore production facilities located on the OCS to meet stringent
engineering and construction specifications. The MMS also has regulations
restricting the flaring or venting of natural gas, and prohibiting the flaring
of liquid hydrocarbons and oil without prior authorization. Similarly, the MMS
has promulgated other regulations governing the plugging and abandonment of
wells located offshore and the installation and removal of all production
facilities. To cover the various obligations of lessees on the Outer Continental
Shelf, the MMS generally requires that lessees have substantial net worth or
post bonds or other acceptable assurances that such obligations will be met. The
cost of these bonds or other surety can be substantial, and there is no
assurance that bonds or other surety can be obtained in all cases. Under some
circumstances, the MMS may require any of our operations on Federal leases to be
suspended or terminated. Any such suspension or termination could materially
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

     The United States Department of Transportation, or DOT, through its Office
of Pipeline Safety, also imposes certain requirements on parties responsible for
transportation pipelines associated with platforms located on the OCS. The MMS
and DOT have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding regarding the agencies'
respective authority over offshore operations, and the MMS has adopted
regulations implementing the Memorandum of Understanding by specifying the
dividing point for any given pipeline where MMS regulatory authority ends and
DOT authority begins.

     The MMS has entered into a series of Memoranda of Understanding with other
Federal agencies, such as the Environmental Protection Agency, Coast Guard and
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, providing for the MMS to
undertake certain inspection and, in some cases, enforcement responsibility for
the respective regulatory mandates of these agencies. Those agencies do,
however, retain varying degrees of jurisdiction over OCS operations to establish
and enforce regulatory requirements.

     In 1997, the MMS modified its regulations to, among other things, (i)
impose the duty on any lessee of an offshore lease to meet end-of-lease
obligations if the designated operator is unable to do so, (ii) establish joint
and several liability for plugging and abandonment of wells, removal of
platforms and other facilities, and clearance of well and platform locations,
among OCS lessees, assignees and assignors, thus creating residual liability in
certain parties for these obligations, (iii) increase the level of bond coverage
for drilling deep stratigraphic test wells and (iv) allow the MMS Regional
Director to require, on a case-by-case basis, posting of additional bonds or
other security in order to increase the amount of coverage for end-of-lease
obligations or certain other operations. These requirements may operate to
substantially increase our current bonding liabilities, and to also impact our
residual liabilities, both with respect to existing leases acquired from third
parties and with respect to leases that we may acquire or dispose of in the
future.

     Effective June 1, 2000, the MMS adopted regulations that changed
significantly the valuation of crude oil for royalty payments on onshore and
offshore Federal leases. These rules retained the concept of gross proceeds for
calculating royalties on production sold to third parties in arm's-length
transactions. However, oil sold in non-arm's-length contracts is to be valued
using index pricing methods or other benchmarking procedures to determine a
deemed arm's-length price. The rules define non-arm's-length sales to include
sales

                                        8
<PAGE>

to affiliates, certain exchange transactions, sales pursuant to certain call
provisions, and other transactions. The breadth of these definitions could cause
certain sales by us to be impacted and could in some cases require that we pay
royalty on a deemed value higher than that which we actually receive for our
oil. These regulations have been challenged judicially.

     In a series of regulations and rulings over the past several years, the MMS
has also taken an expansive view of the lessee's duty to market natural gas on
behalf of the Federal government as lessor. For example, one of the rules has
disallowed the deductibility of certain transportation costs from the
calculation of royalty on gas sold off Federal leases, including marketer fees,
cash out and other pipeline imbalance penalties and long-term storage fees.
Although these regulations and rulings have been challenged judicially, that
challenge was rejected in large part. The impact of these regulations and
rulings could be to increase our costs of marketing production from Federal
leases and in effect impose royalty obligations on certain downstream sale
transactions.

     The MMS has also previously proposed gas valuation rules similar to those
described above for oil royalty valuation that would value gas sold in certain
non-arm's length transactions in accordance with defined indices or other
benchmarks. Those proposed rules were withdrawn in 1997, and it is not known
whether the MMS intends to reissue them. The potential effect of such rules, as
with the revised oil royalty valuation rules, would be to move the valuation
point downstream for purposes of royalty calculation and thereby to impose a
royalty obligation on a deemed value higher than proceeds realized by the lessee
from sales netted back to the wellhead. Although we do not have marketing
affiliates and do not currently market our production in exchanges or other
transactions that appear to be the target of these regulatory proposals, we
cannot predict how the final form of any of these rules could impact our royalty
obligations.

     State and Local Regulation of Drilling and Production.  We own interests in
properties located in the Louisiana state waters off the Gulf of Mexico and on
state lands in the states in which we operate. We also own interests on private
lands that are subject to regulation by state and local governments.

     State regulations govern operational matters such as permits and bonds for
drilling, reclamation and plugging, spacing and pooling of wells, and reporting
requirements. The states in which we operate or plan to operate also have a
variety of statutes and regulations governing conservation matters, ranging from
establishment of maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells to the
proration of production to the market demand for oil and gas to the limitation
on ceiling prices for gas sold within the state. Such regulation could be
applied to restrict the rate at which our wells produce oil or gas below the
rate at which such wells would otherwise be produced, and the amount or timing
of our revenues could thereby be adversely affected.

     Also in recent years, pressure has increased in states in which we have
been active to increase regulation of the oil and gas industry at the local
government level. Such local regulation in general is aimed at increasing the
involvement of local governments in the permitting of oil and gas operations,
requiring additional restrictions or conditions on the conduct of operations to
reduce the impact on the surrounding community and increasing financial
assurance requirements. Accordingly, such regulation has the potential to delay
and increase the cost, or even in some cases to prohibit entirely, the conduct
of our drilling activities.

     Substantially all of the Acquired Properties are located within the Uintah
and Ouray Indian Reservation. As a result, our interests and operations therein
may be subject to the jurisdiction of various Tribal authorities.

     Oil Price Controls and Transportation Rates.  Our sales of crude oil,
condensate and natural gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at
market prices. Effective as of January 1, 1995, the FERC implemented regulations
establishing an indexing system for transportation rates for oil that could
increase the cost of transporting oil to the purchaser. We do not believe that
these regulations affect us any differently than other oil producers, gatherers
and marketers.

     Environmental Regulations.  Our operations, which include the storage of
oil and other hazardous materials, are subject to numerous laws and regulations
governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating
to environmental protection, including those listed below. We could incur
substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal
sanctions, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws
or the non-compliance with environmental permits required at our

                                        9
<PAGE>

facilities. Public interest in the protection of the environment has increased
dramatically in recent years. Offshore drilling in some areas has been opposed
by environmental groups and, in some areas, has been restricted. To the extent
laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that prohibits or
restricts drilling or otherwise imposes environmental protection requirements
that result in increased costs to the oil and natural gas industry, our business
and prospects could be adversely affected.

     The drilling for and production, handling, transportation and disposal of
oil and gas and by-products are subject to extensive regulation under Federal,
state and local environmental laws. In most instances, the applicable regulatory
requirements relate to water and air pollution control and oilfield management
measures, permitting requirements, or restrictions on operations in
environmentally sensitive areas such as coastal zones, wetlands and wildlife
habitat. These requirements increase our cost of doing business, delay or
preclude operations, and create potential liability to governmental agencies or
third parties for environmental damage. For example, environmental regulation
may in some circumstances impose "strict liability" for environmental
contamination, rendering an owner or operator or other person with a connection
to a property liable for environmental and natural resource damages and cleanup
cost without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. In
addition, state laws often require some form of remedial action to prevent
pollution from former operations, such as closure of inactive pits and plugging
of abandoned wells, and such liability can be imposed on successor owners. In
connection with our acquisitions, we generally perform environmental
assessments. To the extent environmental liabilities have been identified, such
liabilities are not material or we have negotiated agreements requiring the
sellers of the properties to undertake the required clean-up. We have assumed
responsibility for some of these matters identified. Environmental assessments
have not been performed on all of our properties.

     Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability
Act, also known as the "Superfund" law, as well as similar state statutes, an
owner or operator of real property or a person who arranges for disposal of
hazardous substances may be liable for the costs of removing or remediating
hazardous substance contamination. Liability may be imposed on a current owner
or operator without regard to fault and for the entire cost of the cleanup. It
is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file
claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous
substances released into the environment. However, we are not aware of any
current claims under the Superfund law or similar state statutes against us.

     The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, and regulations thereunder impose
liability on "responsible parties," including the owner or operator of a
facility or vessel, or the lessee or permittee of the area in which an offshore
facility is located, for oil removal costs and resulting public and private
damages relating to oil spills in United States waters. The OPA assigns
liability to "responsible parties" for oil removal costs and a variety of public
and private damages. While liability limits apply in some circumstances, a party
cannot take advantage of liability limits if the spill was caused by gross
negligence or willful misconduct or resulted from violation of a Federal safety,
construction or operating regulation, or if the party fails to report a spill or
to cooperate fully in the cleanup. Few defenses exist to the liability imposed
by the OPA. Even if applicable, the liability limits for offshore facilities
require the responsible party to pay all removal costs, plus up to $75 million
in other damages. The OPA also requires a responsible party to submit proof of
its financial responsibility to cover environmental cleanup and restoration
costs that could be incurred in connection with an oil spill and to prepare oil
spill contingency plans. We believe we are in compliance with these
requirements.

     The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, or FWPCA, imposes restrictions and
strict controls regarding the discharge of produced waters and other oil and gas
wastes into navigable waters. Permits must be obtained to discharge pollutants
to waters and to conduct construction activities in waters and wetlands. The
FWPCA and similar state laws provide for civil, criminal and administrative
penalties for any unauthorized discharges of pollutants and unauthorized
discharges of reportable quantities of oil and other hazardous substances. Many
state discharge regulations and the Federal National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System generally limit and may otherwise prohibit the discharge of
produced water and sand, drilling fluids, drill cuttings and certain other
substances related to the oil and gas industry into coastal or offshore waters.
Although the costs to comply with zero discharge mandates under Federal or state
law may be significant, the entire industry is

                                        10
<PAGE>

expected to experience similar costs and we believe that these costs will not
have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial
position. In 1992, the Environmental Protection Agency adopted regulations
requiring certain oil and gas exploration and production facilities to obtain
permits for storm water discharges, carrying costs associated with the treatment
of wastewater or developing and implementing storm water pollution prevention
plans.

     The Endangered Species Act, or ESA, seeks to ensure that activities do not
jeopardize endangered or threatened animal, fish and plant species, nor destroy
or modify the critical habitat of such species. Under the ESA, seismic,
exploration and production operations, as well as actions by Federal agencies,
may not significantly impair or jeopardize the species or its habitat. The ESA
provides for criminal penalties for willful violations of the Act. Other
statutes provide protection to animal and plant species and may apply to our
operations, such as the Marine Mammal Protection Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty
Act, and the National Historic Preservation Act.

     We conduct remedial activities at some of our onshore facilities as a
result of spills of oil or produced saltwater from current or historical
activities. To date, the costs of such activities have not been material.
However, we could incur significant costs at these or other sites if additional
contaminants are detected or clean-up obligations imposed.

     Our operations are also subject to the regulation of air emissions under
the Clean Air Act, comparable state and local requirements and the OCSLA. We may
be required to incur capital expenditures to upgrade pollution control equipment
or become liable for non-compliance with applicable permits.

     New initiatives regulating the disposal of oil and gas waste are also
pending or have been enacted in certain states, including states in which we
conduct operations, and these various initiatives could have a similar impact on
us. These rules establish significant permitting, record-keeping and compliance
procedures that may require the termination of production from marginal wells
for which the cost of compliance would exceed the value of remaining production
and could lead to the incurring of significant remediation costs for properties
found to have caused groundwater contamination or other environmental problems.

     In addition, legislation has been proposed in Congress from time to time
that would reclassify some oil and natural gas exploration and production wastes
as "hazardous wastes," which would make the reclassified wastes subject to much
more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. This, or the
imposition of other environmental legislation, could increase our operating or
compliance costs.

     We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with current
applicable environmental laws and regulations and that continued compliance with
existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on us.

OPERATING HAZARDS AND INSURANCE

     The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks,
including fires, explosions, blowouts, environmental hazards and other potential
events, which can adversely affect our operations. In addition, our offshore
operations also are subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the
marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from
hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions, any of which can cause
substantial damage to facilities. Any of these problems could adversely affect
our ability to conduct operations and cause us to incur substantial losses. Such
losses could reduce or eliminate the funds available for exploration,
exploitation or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of properties.

     In accordance with industry practice, we maintain insurance against some,
but not all, potential risks and losses. We do not carry business interruption
insurance. For some risks, we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe
the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. In
addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable at
a reasonable cost. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not
fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect us.

                                        11
<PAGE>

TITLE TO PROPERTIES

     As is customary in the oil and natural gas industry, we make only a cursory
review of title to farmout acreage and to onshore undeveloped oil and natural
gas leases upon execution of contracts for acquisition of leases. Prior to the
commencement of drilling operations, a thorough title examination is conducted
and curative work is performed with respect to significant defects. We perform
complete reviews of title to Federal and state offshore lease blocks and onshore
producing properties prior to acquisition. To the extent title opinions or other
investigations reflect material title defects, the seller of the property,
rather than us, is typically responsible for curing any such title defects at
its expense. If we were unable to remedy or cure any title defect of a nature
such that it would not be prudent to commence drilling operations on undeveloped
properties, we could suffer a loss of our entire investment in the property. We
have obtained title opinions on substantially all of our producing properties
and believe that we have satisfactory title to such properties in accordance
with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our producing
properties are subject to a negative pledge in connection with our Revolving
Credit Facility.

ABANDONMENT COSTS

     We are responsible for costs associated with the plugging of wells, the
removal of facilities and equipment and site restoration on our oil and natural
gas properties, pro rata to our working interest. As of January 1, 2003 we
adopted SFAS No. 143 "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143
requires entities to record the fair value of liabilities for retirement
obligations of acquired assets. We expect to record asset retirement obligations
of approximately $59 million and a cumulative effect of change in accounting
principle on prior years in the range of $2 million to $5 million in our
consolidated statement of operations on January 1, 2003. Estimates of
abandonment costs and their timing may change due to many factors, including
actual drilling and production results, inflation rates, and changes in
environmental laws and regulations. Estimated asset retirement obligations are
added to net unamortized historical oil and gas property costs for purposes of
computing depreciation, depletion and amortization expense charges.

EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 2002, we had 333 full-time employees. We believe that our
relationships with our employees are satisfactory. None of our employees is
covered by a collective bargaining agreement. From time to time, we use the
services of independent consultants and contractors to perform various
professional services, particularly in the areas of construction, design,
well-site surveillance, permitting and environmental assessment.

RISK FACTORS

     In addition to the other information included in this report, the following
risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future
prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and
you are encouraged to perform your own investigation with respect to us and our
business. You should also read the other information included in this report,
including our financial statements and the related notes.

  OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRICES FLUCTUATE WIDELY, AND LOW PRICES COULD HARM OUR
  BUSINESS.

     Our results of operations are highly dependent upon the prices of oil and
natural gas. Historically, oil and natural gas prices have been volatile and are
likely to continue to be volatile in the future. For example, our average sales
prices for oil and natural gas for the year ended December 31, 2002 were
$23.66/bbl and $2.94/Mcf, respectively, with production totaling 129.9 Bcfe and
combined oil and natural gas sales of $429.3 million during this period. In
contrast, our average sales prices for oil and natural gas for the year ended
December 31, 2001 were $21.69/bbl and $3.59/Mcf, respectively, with production
totaling 88.1 Bcfe and combined oil and natural gas sales of $317.3 million
during this period. The prices received for oil and natural gas production
depend upon numerous factors including, among others:

     - consumer demand;

     - governmental regulations and taxes;

                                        12
<PAGE>

     - the price and availability of alternative fuels;

     - geopolitical developments, including potential military activity in the
       Middle East;

     - commodity processing, gathering and transportation availability;

     - the level of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; and

     - the overall economic environment.

All of these factors are beyond our control. Any significant decrease in prices
for oil and natural gas could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations and quantities of reserves that are
commercially recoverable. For example, the decline in oil and natural gas prices
over the past year has impacted our cash flow and could adversely impact our
borrowing base and liquidity in general. If the oil and natural gas industry
continues to experience significant future price decreases or other adverse
market conditions, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from
operations to meet our obligations and make planned capital expenditures.

  WE WILL REQUIRE SUBSTANTIAL CAPITAL TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS.

     We expect for the foreseeable future to make substantial capital
expenditures for the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and natural
gas reserves. Historically, we have paid for these expenditures primarily with
cash from operating activities and with proceeds from debt and equity
financings. If revenues decrease as a result of lower oil and natural gas prices
or for any other reason, we may not have the funds available to replace our
reserves or to maintain production at current levels, which would result in a
decrease in production over time.

  OUR FORMER INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT, ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP, HAS BEEN FOUND
  GUILTY OF A FEDERAL OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE CHARGE, AND YOU MAY BE UNABLE TO
  EXERCISE EFFECTIVE REMEDIES AGAINST IT IN ANY LEGAL ACTION.

     Our former independent public accountant, Arthur Andersen LLP, provided us
with auditing services for prior fiscal periods through December 31, 2001,
including issuing an audit report to our audited consolidated financial
statements included in this report. On June 15, 2002, a jury in Houston, Texas
found Arthur Andersen LLP guilty of a Federal obstruction of justice charge
arising from the Federal Government's investigation of Enron Corp. On August 31,
2002, Arthur Andersen LLP ceased practicing before the SEC. Arthur Andersen LLP
has not reissued its audit report with respect to our audited consolidated
financial statements included in this report. Furthermore, Arthur Andersen LLP
has not consented to the inclusion of its audit report in this report. As a
result, you may not have an effective remedy against Arthur Andersen LLP in
connection with a material misstatement or omission with respect to our audited
consolidated financial statements that are included in this report or any other
filing we may make with the SEC, including, with respect to any offering
registered under the Securities Act, any claim under Section 11 of the
Securities Act. In addition, even if you were able to assert such a claim, as a
result of its conviction and other lawsuits, Arthur Andersen LLP may fail or
otherwise have insufficient assets to satisfy claims made by investors or by us
that might arise under Federal securities laws or otherwise relating to any
alleged material misstatement or omission with respect to our audited
consolidated financial statements.

     In addition, in connection with any future capital markets transaction in
which we are required to include financial statements that were audited by
Arthur Andersen LLP, as a result of the foregoing, investors may elect not to
participate in any such offering or, in the alternate, may require us to obtain
a new audit with respect to previously audited financial statements.
Consequently, our financing costs may increase or we may miss attractive capital
market opportunities.

                                        13
<PAGE>

  OUR LEVERAGE AND DEBT SERVICE OBLIGATIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR CASH FLOW
  AND OUR ABILITY TO MAKE PAYMENTS ON OUR LONG-TERM DEBT.

     As of December 31, 2002, we had total long-term debt of $799.4 million and
stockholders' equity of $1.1 billion. Our level of debt could have important
consequences to our business, including the following:

     - it may be more difficult for us to satisfy our debt repayment
       obligations;

     - we may have difficulties borrowing money in the future for acquisitions,
       to meet our operating expenses or other purposes;

     - the amount of our interest expense may increase because certain of our
       borrowings are at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates
       increase, could result in higher interest expense;

     - we will need to use a portion of the money we earn to pay principal and
       interest on our debt which will reduce the amount of money we have to
       finance our operations and other business activities;

     - we may have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which
       may put us at a competitive disadvantage;

     - we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments
       in our industry; and

     - our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting
       to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate.

     Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our
future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic,
regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these
factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be
certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal
and/or interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have
enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt,
sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity. We may not be able to refinance
our debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to
us, if at all. Further, failing to comply with the financial and other
restrictive covenants in our debt instruments could result in an event of
default under such instruments, which could adversely affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations.

  IN LIGHT OF OUR CURRENT INDEBTEDNESS, WE MAY BE ABLE TO INCUR SUBSTANTIALLY
  MORE DEBT. ADDITIONAL DEBT COULD EXACERBATE THE RISKS DESCRIBED ABOVE.

     Together with our subsidiaries, we may be able to incur substantially more
debt in the future. Although the agreements and indentures governing the terms
of our debt impose restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness,
these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and
under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these
restrictions could be substantial. Also, these restrictions do not prevent us
from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. As of December
31, 2002, we had approximately $372.9 million of additional borrowing capacity
under our Revolving Credit Facility, subject to specific requirements, including
compliance with financial covenants. To the extent new debt is added to our
current debt levels, the risks described above could substantially increase.

  ANY FAILURE TO MEET OUR DEBT OBLIGATIONS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL
  CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

     If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt
obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional equity or debt
capital or restructure our debt. In addition, any failure to make scheduled
payments of interest and/or principal on our outstanding indebtedness would
likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability
to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital
resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and/or principal of our
debt in the future and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may
not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us
to default on our obligations and impair our liquidity.

                                        14
<PAGE>

  INDIAN TRIBES HAVE PREVIOUSLY CHALLENGED THE VALIDITY OF SOME OF THE PROPERTY
  INTERESTS COVERED BY OIL AND NATURAL GAS LEASES IN THE AREA IN WHICH THE
  ACQUIRED PROPERTIES ARE LOCATED, AND OUR OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES ON TRIBAL
  LANDS MAY BE SUBJECT TO TRIBAL JURISDICTION.

     Substantially all of the oil and natural gas leases we acquired in the
Acquisition cover interests located within the Uintah and Ouray Indian
Reservation, in an area originally known as the Umcompahgre Reservation. These
leases were granted by the State of Utah, the United States (through the Bureau
of Land Management) or holders of patents from the United States. The Ute Indian
Tribe has previously asserted various claims against the State of Utah and the
United States regarding the existence, diminishment and/or abrogation of the
Reservation's boundaries and the extent of Tribal jurisdiction over these lands.
These lawsuits raised questions as to whether the Ute Tribe could invalidate
through litigation fee patents issued by the United States, the State of Utah's
ownership of such lands or the United States' ownership of minerals subject to
the acquired leases. We believe these issues were conclusively settled as a
result of the Ute Indian Tribe litigation and have no reason to expect that
similar claims will be or could be asserted in the future. We cannot be certain,
however, that additional claims will not be asserted or, if asserted, that such
claims would not be successful. If claims of this nature were successfully
asserted we might not be able to continue to produce hydrocarbons from or
develop and exploit these assets, which could adversely affect our business and
profitability.

     In addition, the Ute Indian Tribe as a sovereign nation has certain rights
to regulate activities on Tribal lands, to approve access to and the right to
use (occupy) Tribal lands, and to tax revenues from Tribal resources. Exercise
of such rights can result in potential delays or increased costs to our
operations on Tribal lands which may not be foreseeable.

  THE GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION OF THE ACQUIRED PROPERTIES IN UTAH SUBJECTS US TO
  INCREASED RISK OF REDUCTION IN REVENUES OR CURTAILMENT OF PRODUCTION FROM
  CERTAIN NEGATIVE CONDITIONS.

     All of the Acquired Properties are located in Uintah County, Utah.
Conditions such as severe weather, delays or decreases in production, the
availability of equipment, facilities or services or the availability of
capacity to transport, gather or process production could subject us to
increased risk of loss of revenues and have a greater impact on our results of
operations since most or all of the Acquired Properties could be affected by the
same event.

  WE MAY NOT REALIZE THE ANTICIPATED BENEFITS FROM THE ACQUISITION.

     Our estimates regarding the expenses and liabilities or the increase in our
reserves and production resulting from the Acquisition may prove to be incorrect
or we may not be successful in integrating the Acquired Properties into our
existing business, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the
financial condition and results of operations.

  WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONSUMMATE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS OR SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE
  ACQUISITIONS INTO OUR BUSINESS.

     Our business strategy includes growing our reserve base through
acquisitions. We may not continue to be successful in identifying or
consummating future acquisitions or integrating acquired businesses successfully
into our existing business, or in anticipating the expenses or liabilities we
will incur in doing so. Such failures may have a material adverse effect on
future growth or results of operations.

     We are continually investigating opportunities for acquisitions. In
connection with future acquisitions, the process of integrating acquired
operations into our existing operations may result in unforeseen operating
difficulties and may require significant management attention and financial
resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or
expansion of existing operations. Our ability to make future acquisitions may be
constrained by our ability to obtain additional financing.

                                        15
<PAGE>

     Acquisitions may involve a number of special risks, including:

     - unexpected losses of key employees, customers and suppliers of the
       acquired business;

     - conforming the financial, technological and management standards,
       processes, procedures and controls of the acquired business with those of
       our existing operations; and

     - increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our
       operations.

Possible future acquisitions could result in our incurring additional debt and
contingent liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and operating results.

  REPERCUSSIONS FROM TERRORIST ACTIVITIES OR ARMED CONFLICT COULD HARM OUR
  BUSINESS.

     Terrorist activities, anti-terrorist efforts and other armed conflict
involving the United States or its interests abroad may adversely affect the
United States and global economies and could prevent us from meeting our
financial and other obligations. If events of this nature occur and persist, the
attendant political instability and societal disruption could reduce overall
demand for oil and natural gas, potentially putting downward pressure on
prevailing oil and natural gas prices and causing a reduction in our revenues.
Natural gas and oil production facilities, transportation systems and storage
facilities could be direct targets of terrorist attacks, and our operations
could be adversely impacted if infrastructure integral to our operations is
destroyed or damaged by such an attack. Costs for insurance and other security
may increase as a result of these threats, and some insurance coverage may
become more difficult to obtain if available at all.

  OUR COMMODITY PRICE AND BASIS DIFFERENTIAL RISK MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS MAY
  LIMIT OUR POTENTIAL GAINS.

     Commodity prices and basis differentials significantly affect our financial
condition, results of operations, cash flows and ability to borrow funds. Oil
and natural gas prices, as well as basis differentials, are affected by several
factors that we cannot control. We attempt to manage our exposure to oil and
natural gas price volatility by entering into commodity price risk management
arrangements for a portion of our expected production. In addition, we attempt
to manage our exposure to basis differentials between delivery points by
entering into basis swaps. In connection with the Acquisition, and as required
by our Revolving Credit Facility, we entered into a significant number of
hedging arrangements relating to the production from the Acquired Properties to
help us manage our exposure. While intended to reduce the effects of volatile
oil and natural gas prices and basis differentials, commodity price and basis
differential risk management transactions may limit our potential gains if oil
and natural gas prices were to rise substantially, or basis differentials were
to fall substantially, versus the price or basis differential established by the
arrangements. These transactions also expose us to credit risk of
non-performance by the counterparties to the transaction. In addition, our
commodity price and basis differential risk management transactions may limit
our ability to borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility and may expose us to
the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in
which:

     - our production is less than expected;

     - there is a widening of price differentials between delivery points for
       our production and the delivery point assumed in non-basis hedge
       arrangements;

     - basis differentials tighten substantially from the prices established by
       these arrangements; or

     - the counterparties to our contracts fail to perform under terms of the
       contracts.

     In 2002, we experienced a $25.9 million loss attributable to our commodity
price risk management activities. No estimate of future settlements or
mark-to-market gains or losses is determinable as such amounts are contingent
upon commodity prices at the time of production. We may experience additional
losses from these activities in 2003. If commodity prices increase, our cash
settlement costs will also increase. In addition, certain of our commodity price
risk management arrangements will require us to deliver cash collateral or other
assurances of performance to the counterparties in the event that payment
obligations with

                                        16
<PAGE>

respect to commodity price risk management transactions exceed certain levels.
As of February 28, 2003, we had $158.3 million of letters of credit outstanding
for this purpose.

  EXPLORATION IS A HIGH-RISK ACTIVITY. THE SEISMIC DATA AND OTHER ADVANCED
  TECHNOLOGIES WE USE ARE EXPENSIVE AND CANNOT ELIMINATE EXPLORATION RISKS.

     Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to the economic risks
typically associated with drilling exploratory wells. In conducting exploration
activities, we may drill unsuccessful wells and experience losses and, if oil
and natural gas are discovered, there is no assurance that such oil and natural
gas can be economically produced or satisfactorily marketed. There can be no
assurance that new wells we drill will be productive or that we will recover all
or any portion of our investment. The presence of unanticipated pressure or
irregularities in formations, miscalculations or accidents may cause our
exploration activities to be unsuccessful, resulting in a total loss of our
investment in such activities. The cost of drilling, completing and operating
wells is often uncertain. Our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or
canceled as a result of numerous factors, many of which may be beyond our
control, including unexpected drilling conditions, title problems, weather
conditions, compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements
and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services.

     We rely to a significant extent on seismic data and other advanced
technologies in conducting our exploration activities. Even when used and
properly interpreted, seismic data and visualization techniques only assist
geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators.
Such data is not conclusive in determining if hydrocarbons are present or
economically producible. The use of seismic data and other technologies also
requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies.
We could incur losses as a result of these expenditures.

  FAILURE TO REPLACE RESERVES MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.

     Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire
additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our
proved reserves generally decline when reserves are produced, unless we conduct
successful exploration or development activities or acquire properties
containing proved reserves, or both. We may not be able to find, develop or
acquire additional reserves on an economic basis. Furthermore, while our
revenues may increase if oil and natural gas prices increase significantly, our
finding costs for additional reserves could also increase.

  RESERVE ESTIMATES ARE INHERENTLY UNCERTAIN. ANY MATERIAL INACCURACIES IN OUR
  RESERVE ESTIMATES OR ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING OUR RESERVE ESTIMATES, SUCH AS THE
  DISCOUNT RATE USED, COULD CAUSE THE QUANTITIES AND NET PRESENT VALUE OF OUR
  RESERVES TO BE OVERSTATED.

     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of
proved reserves, including many factors beyond our control, that could cause the
quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated. The reserve
information set forth in this report represents estimates based on reports
prepared or audited by independent petroleum engineers and prepared by our
internal engineers. Reserve engineering is not an exact science. Estimates of
economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash
flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, any
of which may cause these estimates to vary considerably from actual results,
such as:

     - historical production from the area compared with production from other
       producing areas;

     - assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies;

     - assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices;

     - assumptions regarding future operating costs;

     - estimates of future severance and excise taxes;

                                        17
<PAGE>

     - assumptions regarding capital expenditures; and

     - estimates regarding workover and remedial costs.

     Estimates of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of expected
future net cash flows prepared or audited by different engineers, or by the same
engineers at different times, may vary substantially. Actual production,
revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves will likely vary from
estimates, and the variance may be material. The net present values referred to
in this report should not be construed as the current market value of the
estimated oil and natural gas reserves attributable to our properties. In
accordance with requirements of the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission, or SEC, the estimated discounted net cash flows from proved reserves
are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas
actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower.

  COMPETITION IN OUR INDUSTRY IS INTENSE, AND MANY OF OUR COMPETITORS HAVE
  GREATER FINANCIAL, TECHNOLOGICAL AND OTHER RESOURCES THAN WE HAVE.

     We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas
exploitation, exploration and acquisition. The oil and natural gas industry is
characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and
introductions of new products and services using new technologies. We face
intense competition from major and independent oil and natural gas companies in
each of the following areas:

     - seeking to acquire desirable producing properties or new leases for
       future exploration;

     - marketing our oil and natural gas production;

     - integrating new technologies; and

     - acquiring the personnel, equipment and expertise necessary to develop and
       operate our properties.

     Many other companies have financial, technological and other resources
substantially greater than our own. These companies may be able to pay more for
exploratory prospects and productive oil and natural gas properties and may be
able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties
and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. Further, many of our
competitors may enjoy technological advantages over us and may be able to
implement new technologies more rapidly than we can. Our ability to explore for
oil and natural gas and to acquire additional properties in the future will
depend upon our ability to successfully conduct operations, implement advanced
technologies, evaluate and select suitable properties and consummate
transactions in this highly competitive environment.

  WE ARE SUBJECT TO COMPLEX LAWS AND REGULATIONS, INCLUDING ENVIRONMENTAL AND
  SAFETY REGULATIONS, THAT CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COST, MANNER OR FEASIBILITY
  OF DOING BUSINESS.

     Our operations and facilities are subject to certain Federal, state and
local laws and regulations relating to the exploration for, and the development,
production and transportation of, oil and natural gas, as well as environmental
and safety matters. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be certain that existing
laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted in the future, or
future laws or regulations will not harm our business, results of operations and
financial condition. We may be required to make large and unanticipated capital
expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations,
such as:

     - land use restrictions;

     - drilling bonds and other financial responsibility requirements;

     - spacing of wells;

     - unitization and pooling of properties;

     - habitat and endangered species protection, reclamation and remediation,
       and other environmental protection;

                                        18
<PAGE>

     - safety precautions;

     - operational reporting; and

     - taxation.

     Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for:

     - personal injuries;

     - property and natural resource damages;

     - oil spills and releases or discharges of hazardous materials;

     - well reclamation costs;

     - remediation and clean-up costs and other governmental sanctions, such as
       fines and penalties; and

     - other environmental damages.

     We could also experience significant delays in operations on our
properties, inability to develop particular properties, or significantly
increased costs of operations as a result of regulatory requirements or
restrictions. We are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with
these requirements or their effect on our operations.

  WE CANNOT CONTROL ACTIVITIES ON PROPERTIES WE DO NOT OPERATE. INABILITY TO
  FUND OUR CAPITAL EXPENDITURES MAY RESULT IN REDUCTION OR FORFEITURE OF OUR
  INTERESTS IN SOME OF OUR NON-OPERATED PROJECTS.

     Other companies operate approximately 23% of the net present value of our
reserves and we have limited ability to exercise influence over operations for
these properties or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and
other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to
influence operations and associated costs could prevent the realization of our
targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success
and timing of drilling and exploitation activities on properties operated by
others, therefore, depend upon a number of factors that will be outside our
control, including:

     - timing and amount of capital expenditures;

     - the operator's expertise and financial resources;

     - approval of other participants in drilling wells; and

     - selection of technology.

     Where we are not the majority owner or operator of a particular oil and
natural gas project, we may have no control over the timing or amount of capital
expenditures associated with such project. If we are not willing to fund our
capital expenditures relating to such projects when required by the majority
owner or operator, our interests in these projects may be reduced or forfeited.

  OUR BUSINESS INVOLVES MANY OPERATING RISKS THAT MAY RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL
  LOSSES. INSURANCE MAY BE UNAVAILABLE OR INADEQUATE TO PROTECT US AGAINST THESE
  RISKS.

     Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in drilling for,
producing and transporting oil and natural gas, such as:

     - fires;

     - natural disasters;

     - explosions;

     - formations with abnormal pressures;

     - casing collapses;

                                        19
<PAGE>

     - embedded oilfield drilling and service tools;

     - uncontrollable flows of underground natural gas, oil and formation water;

     - surface cratering;

     - pipeline ruptures or cement failures; and

     - environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and
       discharges of toxic gases.

     Any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting from:

     - injury or loss of life;

     - damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;

     - pollution and other environmental damage;

     - regulatory investigations and penalties;

     - suspension of operations; and

     - repair and remediation costs.

     As protection against operating hazards, we maintain insurance coverage
against some, but not all, potential losses. However, losses could occur for
uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance
coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance
could harm our financial condition and results of operations.

  WE ARE VULNERABLE TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OPERATING IN THE GULF OF MEXICO.

     Our operations and financial results could be significantly impacted by
conditions in the Gulf of Mexico because we explore and produce extensively in
that area. As a result of this activity, we are vulnerable to the risks
associated with operating in the Gulf of Mexico, including those relating to:

     - adverse weather conditions;

     - oil field service costs and availability;

     - compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations;

     - remediation and other costs resulting from oil spills or releases of
       hazardous materials; and

     - failure of equipment or facilities.

     For example, in 2002, adverse weather conditions caused us to temporarily
shut-in our offshore operations and reduce production, which resulted in a
decline in production by approximately 0.9 Bcf.

     In addition, we intend to conduct some of our exploration in the deep
waters (greater than approximately 1,000 feet) of the Gulf of Mexico, where
operations are more difficult and costly than in shallower waters. The deep
waters in the Gulf of Mexico lack the physical and oilfield service
infrastructure present in its shallower waters. As a result, deep water
operations may require a significant amount of time between a discovery and the
time that we can market our production, thereby increasing the risk involved
with these operations.

     Further, production of reserves from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico
generally declines more rapidly than from reservoirs in many other producing
regions of the world. This results in recovery of a relatively higher percentage
of reserves from properties in the Gulf of Mexico during the initial few years
of production, and as a result, our reserve replacement needs from new prospects
may be greater there than for our operations elsewhere. Also, our revenues and
return on capital will depend significantly on prices prevailing during these
relatively short production periods.

                                        20
<PAGE>

  WE DEPEND UPON OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM AND OUR OPERATIONS REQUIRE US TO ATTRACT
  AND RETAIN EXPERIENCED TECHNICAL PERSONNEL.

     The successful implementation of our strategies and handling of other
issues integral to our future success will depend, in part, on our experienced
management team. The loss of members of our management team could have an
adverse effect on our business. Our exploratory drilling success and the success
of other activities integral to our operations will depend, in part, on our
ability to attract and retain experienced explorationists, engineers and other
professionals. Competition for experienced explorationists, engineers and some
other professionals is extremely intense. If we cannot retain our technical
personnel or attract additional experienced technical personnel, our ability to
compete could be harmed.

  THE MARKETABILITY OF OUR PRODUCTION DEPENDS UPON FACTORS OVER WHICH WE MAY
  HAVE NO CONTROL.

     The marketability of our production depends in part upon the availability,
proximity and capacity of pipelines, natural gas gathering systems and
processing facilities. Any significant change in market factors affecting these
infrastructure facilities could adversely impact our ability to deliver the oil
and natural gas we produce to market in an efficient manner, which could harm
our financial condition and results of operations. We deliver oil and natural
gas through gathering systems and pipelines that we do not own. These facilities
may not be available to us in the future. Our ability to produce and market oil
and natural gas is affected and may be also harmed by:

     - Federal and state regulation of oil and natural gas production;

     - transportation, tax and energy policies;

     - changes in supply and demand; and

     - general economic conditions.

  OUR PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS OWN A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR COMMON STOCK,
  GIVING THEM A CONTROLLING INFLUENCE OVER CORPORATE TRANSACTIONS AND OTHER
  MATTERS.

     Our principal stockholders, including Medicor Foundation, Westport Energy
LLC, ERI Investments, Inc., an affiliate of Equitable Resources Corp., and the
Belfer Group, a group of former Belco stockholders, together beneficially own
approximately 53% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, these
stockholders, acting together through a shareholders agreement, based on their
current share ownership, are able to control the outcome of the election of
directors as well as, if they choose to act together, the adoption or amendment
of provisions in our articles of incorporation or bylaws and the approval of
mergers and other significant corporate transactions. These factors may also
delay or prevent a change in our management or voting control.

  OUR OIL AND GAS MARKETING ACTIVITIES MAY EXPOSE US TO CLAIMS FROM ROYALTY
  OWNERS.

     In addition to marketing our oil and gas production, our marketing
activities generally include marketing oil and gas production for royalty
owners. Recently, royalty owners have commenced litigation against a number of
companies in the oil and gas production business claiming that amounts paid for
production attributable to the royalty owners' interest violated the terms of
the applicable leases and laws in various respects, including the value of
production sold, permissibility of deductions taken and accuracy of quantities
measured. Some of this litigation was commenced as class action suits including
two class action suits filed against Westport involving some of our Wyoming
properties. Although we believe payments, if any, that we are required to make
under existing litigation would not have a material impact on our financial
condition, our liability relating to the marketing of oil and gas may increase
as new cases are decided and the law in this area continues to develop.

                                        21
<PAGE>

                     GLOSSARY OF OIL AND NATURAL GAS TERMS

     The following are abbreviations and definitions of certain terms commonly
used in the oil and natural gas industry and this report:

          ASP flood.  A tertiary recovery technique that includes injection of a
     mixture of chemicals into the producing reservoir designed to aid in the
     efficiency of producing the oil in place, thus increasing ultimate produced
     reserves.

          Basis differential.  The difference between oil and natural gas prices
     quoted on the NYMEX and the prices we receive at the locations we deliver
     our produced oil and natural gas.

          bbl.  One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used in
     reference to oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.

          bbl/d.  One stock tank barrel of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons per
     day.

          Bcf.  One billion cubic feet of natural gas at standard atmospheric
     conditions.

          Bcfe.  One billion cubic feet equivalent of natural gas, calculated by
     converting oil to equivalent Mcf at a ratio of 6 Mcf to 1 bbl of oil.

          CO(2) Flood or injections.  A tertiary recovery method in which CO(2)
     is injected into the reservoir to enhance oil recovery.

          Completion.  The installation of permanent equipment for the
     production of oil or natural gas.

          Delay Rentals.  Fees paid to the owner of the oil and natural gas
     lease prior to the commencement of production.

          Developed Acreage.  The number of acres which are allocated or
     assignable to producing wells or wells capable of production.

          Development Well.  A well drilled within or in close proximity to an
     area of known production targeting existing reservoirs.

          Exploitation.  The continuing development of a known producing
     formation in a previously discovered field. To make complete or maximize
     the ultimate recovery of oil or natural gas from the field by work
     including development wells, secondary recovery equipment or other suitable
     processes and technology.

          Exploration.  The search for natural accumulations of oil and natural
     gas by any geological, geophysical or other suitable means.

          Exploratory Well.  A well drilled either in search of a new and as yet
     undiscovered accumulation of oil or natural gas, or with the intent to
     greatly extend the limits of a pool already partly developed.

          Finding and Development Costs.  Capital costs incurred in the
     acquisition, exploration, development and revisions of proved oil and
     natural gas reserves divided by proved reserve additions.

          Gross Acres or Gross Wells.  The total acres or wells, as the case may
     be, in which we have a working interest.

          Gross Producing Wells.  The total number of producing wells in which
     we own any amount of working interest.

          Horizontal Drilling.  A drilling operation in which a portion of the
     well is drilled horizontally within a productive or potentially productive
     formation. This operation usually yields a well which has the ability to
     produce higher volumes than a vertical well drilled in the same formation.

          Infill Drilling.  A drilling operation in which one or more
     development wells is drilled within the proven boundaries of a field
     between two or more other wells.

                                        22
<PAGE>

          Injection Well or Injection.  A well which is used to place liquids or
     gases into the producing zone during secondary/tertiary recovery operations
     to assist in maintaining reservoir pressure and enhancing recoveries from
     the field.

          Mbbl.  One thousand barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.

          Mcf.  One thousand cubic feet of natural gas.

          Mcfe.  One thousand cubic feet equivalent of natural gas, calculated
     by converting oil to equivalent Mcf at a ratio of 6 Mcf to 1 bbl of oil.

          Mineral Interest.  The property interest that includes the right to
     enter to explore for, drill for, produce, store and remove oil and natural
     gas from the subject lands, or to lease to another for those purposes.

          Mmbbl.  One million barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.

          Mmbtu.  One million British thermal units. One British thermal unit is
     the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water
     one degree Fahrenheit.

          Mmbtu/d.  One million British thermal units per day.

          Mmcf.  One million cubic feet of natural gas, measured at standard
     atmospheric conditions.

          Mmcf/d.  One million cubic feet of natural gas per day.

          Mmcfe.  One million cubic feet equivalent of natural gas, calculated
     by converting oil to equivalent Mcf at a ratio of 6 Mcf to 1 bbl of oil.

          Mmcfe/d.  One million cubic feet equivalent of natural gas per day,
     calculated by converting oil to equivalent Mcf at a ratio of 6 Mcf to 1 bbl
     of oil.

          Net Acres or Net Wells.  Gross acres or wells multiplied, as the case
     may be, by the percentage working interest owned by us.

          Net Production.  Production that is owned by Westport less royalties
     and production due others.

          Non-operated Working Interest.  The working interest or fraction
     thereof in a lease or unit, the owner of which is without operating rights
     by reason of an operating agreement.

          NYMEX.  New York Mercantile Exchange.

          Oil.  Crude oil or condensate.

          Operating Income.  Gross oil and natural gas revenue less applicable
     production taxes and lease operating expense.

          Operator.  The individual or company responsible for the exploration,
     exploitation and production of an oil or natural gas well or lease.

          Present Value of Future Net Revenues or Present Value, or PV10.  The
     pretax present value of estimated future revenues to be generated from the
     production of proved reserves calculated in accordance with SEC guidelines,
     net of estimated production and future development costs, using prices and
     costs as of the date of estimation without future escalation, without
     giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and
     administrative expenses, debt service and depreciation, depletion and
     amortization, and discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%.

          Proved Developed Reserves.  Proved reserves that can be expected to be
     recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating
     methods.

          Proved Reserves.  The estimated quantities of oil, natural gas and
     natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with
     reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known
     reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.

                                        23
<PAGE>

          Proved Undeveloped Reserves.  Proved reserves that are expected to be
     recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where
     a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion.

          Royalty.  An interest in an oil and natural gas lease that gives the
     owner of the interest the right to receive a portion of the production from
     the leased acreage (or of the proceeds of the sale thereof), but generally
     does not require the owner to pay any portion of the costs of drilling or
     operating the wells on the leased acreage. Royalties may be either
     landowner's royalties, which are reserved by the owner of the leased
     acreage at the time the lease is granted, or overriding royalties, which
     are usually reserved by an owner of the leasehold in connection with a
     transfer to a subsequent owner.

          Secondary Recovery.  An artificial method or process used to restore
     or increase production from a reservoir after the primary production by the
     natural producing mechanism and reservoir pressure has experienced partial
     depletion. Gas injection and waterflooding are examples of this technique.

          2-D Seismic.  The method by which a cross-section of the earth's
     subsurface is created through the interpretation of reflecting seismic data
     collected along a single source profile.

          3-D Seismic.  The method by which a three dimensional image of the
     earth's subsurface is created through the interpretation of reflection
     seismic data collected over a surface grid. 3-D seismic surveys allow for a
     more detailed understanding of the subsurface than do conventional surveys
     and contribute significantly to field appraisal, exploitation and
     production.

          Tcf.  One trillion cubic feet of natural gas, measured at standard
     atmospheric conditions.

          Tertiary Recovery.  An enhanced recovery operation that normally
     occurs after waterflooding in which chemicals or gasses are used as the
     injectant.

          Undeveloped Acreage.  Acreage held under lease, permit, contract or
     option that is not in a spacing unit for a producing well.

          Waterflood.  A secondary recovery operation in which water is injected
     into the producing formation in order to maintain reservoir pressure and
     force oil toward and into the producing wells.

          Working Interest.  An interest in an oil and natural gas lease that
     gives the owner of the interest the right to drill for and produce oil and
     natural gas on the leased acreage and requires the owner to pay a share of
     the costs of drilling and production operations.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

PROPERTIES -- PRINCIPAL AREAS OF OPERATIONS

     Our operations are concentrated in the following divisions: Northern, which
primarily includes properties in the Rocky Mountains, principally in North
Dakota and Wyoming; Western, which includes the Acquired Properties in the Uinta
Basin, Utah; Southern, which includes properties principally in Oklahoma, Texas
and Louisiana; and Gulf of Mexico, which includes our offshore properties. We
operate approximately 77% of the net present value of our reserves. We finance
our exploitation, exploration and acquisition activities through cash flows from
operations and through borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and other
financing activities. Set forth below is summary information concerning average
daily production during the fourth

                                        24
<PAGE>

quarter of 2002 and estimated reserves and a pre-tax SEC net present value of
estimated proved reserves discounted at 10%, as of December 31, 2002 in our
divisions.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                     AT DECEMBER 31, 2002
                                           ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                NET PRESENT VALUE
                         QUARTER ENDED                 PROVED RESERVE QUANTITIES                  BEFORE INCOME
                       DECEMBER 31, 2002   -------------------------------------------------         TAXES(2)
                       AVERAGE NET DAILY                                                       --------------------
                          PRODUCTION                                 NATURAL GAS
                       -----------------   CRUDE OIL   NATURAL GAS     LIQUIDS       TOTAL       AMOUNT
DIVISION               MMCFE/D   PERCENT    (MMBBL)       (BCF)        (MMBBL)     (BCFE)(1)   (MILLIONS)   PERCENT
- --------               -------   -------   ---------   -----------   -----------   ---------   ----------   -------
<S>                    <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>         <C>          <C>
Northern.............   107.3      28.5%     34.3          146.9          --          352.9     $  514.9      21.4%
Western(3)...........    11.1       2.9%      1.2          589.3          --          596.1        554.7      23.1%
Southern.............   150.6      40.0%     36.7          255.4          --          475.6        876.9      36.4%
Gulf of Mexico.......   107.5      28.6%      7.0          109.8         0.5          155.0        459.3      19.1%
                        -----     -----      ----        -------         ---        -------     --------     -----
     Total...........   376.5     100.0%     79.2        1,101.4         0.5        1,579.6     $2,405.8     100.0%
                        =====     =====      ====        =======         ===        =======     ========     =====
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Mmbbls converted to Bcfe at a six to one conversion.

(2) Excludes value attributable to the gathering and compression assets of
    Westport Field Services, LLC, one of our subsidiaries.

(3) Includes production from the Acquisition closing date of December 17, 2002
    through December 31, 2002.

  NORTHERN DIVISION

     The Northern Division conducts operations in the Rocky Mountain region
which includes the Williston, Powder River, Big Horn, Wind River and Green River
Basins. The division represented approximately 21% of our net present value of
estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2002, and contributed approximately
28% of our fourth quarter 2002 net production. We have interests in 563,695
developed and 1,145,920 undeveloped gross acres in the division and in 2,111
gross (approximately 805 net) producing wells in this division.

     Our strategy in the Northern Division is to exploit lower-risk infill,
horizontal and secondary/tertiary recovery opportunities on existing properties,
pursue gas-weighted exploration opportunities and make tactical acquisitions to
enhance current operations.

     On March 1, 2002, we completed the purchase of producing oil and gas
properties located in the Williston Basin in North Dakota and Montana for
approximately $39 million. The total acquired proved reserves were approximately
43 Bcfe, of which approximately 90% is oil. We operate over 70% of these
properties. Our net production from these properties for the fourth quarter 2002
was approximately 1,550 bbl/d.

     Williston Basin.  Our activity in the Williston Basin continues to focus on
horizontal field extensions, field deepenings to new horizons and growth of our
secondary recovery projects. Our most active project continues to be the Wiley
field. We operate this waterflood with a 54% working interest. In 2000, we
initiated a horizontal drilling program and through December 31, 2002 have
drilled 37 wells, all of which were successful. In addition to the horizontal
drilling, we increased water injection capacity to expand our waterflood
program. As a result of this activity, gross daily production has increased from
approximately 600 bbl/d in April 2000 to over 3,000 bbl/d at the end of the
fourth quarter 2002. Over the next 12 months, we plan to drill 10 to 15
additional wells in the Wiley field while continuing to increase water injection
capacity. Additionally, we plan to drill horizontal development wells in our
Horse Creek, TR and Bear Creek fields.

     Greater Green River Basin.  In the Greater Green River Basin we have
interests in over 400,000 gross undeveloped acres. Over the next 12 to 24 months
we expect to drill seven to 10 exploration wells. One of the primary operating
areas within the basin is the Moxa Arch Complex. Production from Moxa Arch wells
tends to be long-lived, with the potential for greater than a 25 year reserve
life. In the Moxa Arch and Wamsutter areas of southwest Wyoming, we plan to
drill 10 to 15 development wells over the next 12 months.

                                        25
<PAGE>

     Powder River Basin.  In the Powder River Basin, we currently have interests
in approximately 50,000 gross acres, which we believe are prospective for
coalbed methane drilling. From the beginning of 2000 through December 31, 2002,
we participated in the drilling of 273 coalbed methane wells, 270 of which were
successful. We operate 145 of these wells. In 2003, we expect to continue
coalbed methane drilling in both the Wyodak and Big George coal-bearing areas of
the Powder River Basin.

     Big Horn Basin.  The Gooseberry field is our most significant property in
the Big Horn Basin. We own a 100% working interest (nearly 90% net revenue
interest) in this field, which consists of two waterflood units. Since acquiring
the field in February 1995, we have more than doubled the production from
approximately 535 bbl/d to over 1,100 bbl/d in December 2002. In 2002, a larger
pipeline was placed in service to accommodate the increasing production from the
unit. During the next 12 months, we plan to drill three to four additional
development wells and to expand water injection capacity. We currently have
interests in over 200,000 gross undeveloped acres in the Big Horn Basin.

  WESTERN DIVISION

     On December 17, 2002, we closed the acquisition of producing properties,
undeveloped leasehold, gathering and compression facilities and other related
assets in the Greater Natural Buttes area of Uintah County, Utah for
approximately $507 million. This division represented approximately 23% of our
net present value of estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2002 and was
producing approximately 68 Mmcfe/d on December 31, 2002. We have interests in
212,880 developed and 53,120 undeveloped gross acres and in 971 gross
(approximately 755 net) producing wells in this division.

     In addition to establishing a new core area, the Acquisition:

     - increases our proved reserves by approximately 60%, or 596 Bcfe,
       replacing approximately 459% of our 2002 production and giving us nearly
       1 Tcfe of proved reserves in the Rocky Mountains;

     - raises pro forma production approximately 19%, to approximately 434
       Mmcfe/d, placing us among the 20 largest domestic independent exploration
       and production companies, based on fourth quarter 2002 daily production;

     - adds long-life, operated gas properties with a reserve to production
       ratio of over 20 years, extending our overall reserve life index from
       approximately 7 years to approximately 10 years and increasing the gas
       portion of both our proved reserves and production to approximately 70%;

     - contains upside potential, with over 600 proved undeveloped locations;

     - provides exploitation and exploration opportunities on 244,000 net acres
       of leasehold, including targets outside the producing areas and deeper
       formations within the producing areas; and

     - allows us to control the gathering and marketing of our natural gas and
       affords us access to interstate pipelines flowing east, such as Colorado
       Interstate Gas, and west, such as Questar Pipeline.

     Natural gas was first discovered in the Greater Natural Buttes field in
1955. Since that time, more than 900 Bcf of natural gas has been produced. Since
1991, development accelerated with more than 1,000 wells drilled in the field,
approximately 98% of which were successful. The properties are characterized by
established production profiles and long reserve lives. Producing horizons range
from 5,000 to 14,000 feet, with production coming primarily from the Wasatch and
Upper Mesa Verde formations.

     The Natural Buttes Unit has undergone a series of downspacings from the
original spacing of 320 acres per well to current spacing of 40 acres per well.
In adjacent units, operators are currently proposing downspacing to 20 acres per
well. Operators of adjacent units have also drilled successful gas wells to the
Lower Mesa Verde and Mancos formations underlying the primary field production,
which could be prospective on a portion of our acreage.

     In the Greater Natural Buttes area, we operate approximately 650 net
producing wells, or approximately 88% of the net present value of our proved
reserves in the area. Through our high working interest and level of operations
we can control the majority of drilling, completion and production of wells. We
expect to drill 80 to

                                        26
<PAGE>

90 wells in 2003 and plan to expand the program to 120 to 150 wells per year for
the next three to four years thereafter.

  SOUTHERN DIVISION

     The Southern Division conducts operations in the Permian Basin, onshore
Gulf Coast and Mid-Continent regions. This division represented 36% of the net
present value of our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2002, and
contributed 40% of our fourth quarter 2002 net production. We have interests in
540,429 developed and 88,196 undeveloped gross acres and in 3,393 gross
(approximately 1,368 net) producing wells in this division.

     Permian Basin.  Our principal activity in the Permian Basin continues to be
focused on development of the Andrews unit and the Shafter Lake San Andres unit
waterfloods.

     - Andrews Unit.  The Andrews unit waterflood produces from the
       Wolfcamp/Penn formation at approximately 8,600 feet. We have a 98.6%
       working interest in this 3,230-acre unit. During 2002 we continued
       expanding the waterflood program by drilling additional wells, converting
       wells to injectors and performing workovers on existing wells. As a
       result, production continues to increase from an 855 bbl/d average in
       2000 to over 1,200 bbl/d as of December 31, 2002. We believe that
       production from this waterflood unit can be further enhanced with the use
       of CO(2) flooding or other tertiary recovery methods.

     - Shafter Lake San Andres Unit.  The Shafter Lake San Andres unit is a
       12,880-acre unit that produces from the Grayburg and San Andres
       formations at a depth of approximately 4,500 feet. We have an 81.4%
       working interest in this secondary recovery unit. In 2002, we drilled
       eight wells on 10-acre spacing and plan to drill 10 to 15 additional
       10-acre wells in 2003. The unit was producing 655 bbl/d as of December
       31, 2002. Operators of nearby San Andres fields have successfully drilled
       to 10-acre spacing before CO(2) injection. We believe the potential
       exists for CO(2) flooding as the field matures.

     Onshore Gulf Coast.  Our Gulf Coast operations are primarily focused in the
Yegua trend of southeast Texas, and in Northern Louisiana where we are active in
two fields, the Elm Grove field and the North Louisiana field complex.

     - Southeast Texas Properties.  We acquired these oil and gas properties on
       September 30, 2002. The total estimated proved reserves were
       approximately 67 Bcfe, of which 82% is natural gas. We operate
       essentially all of these properties. We also acquired approximately
       10,000 net undeveloped acres and an interest in 120 square miles of 3-D
       seismic data. Since closing, we have participated in two shoots for an
       additional 185 square miles of 3-D seismic data, increased net production
       from approximately 28 Mmcfe/d to 35 Mmcfe/d and drilled two successful
       development wells and two exploration wells, of which one was successful.
       Currently, we have two rigs drilling in the area and expect to drill 15
       exploration prospects over the next 12 to 24 months.

     - Elm Grove Field.  We maintained an active development drilling program in
       the Elm Grove field in 2002 by drilling 24 wells, all of which were
       successful. In 2003 we expect to drill 20 to 25 wells. Net production has
       continued to grow throughout the year to average approximately 17.4
       Mmcfe/d in fourth quarter 2002.

     - North Louisiana Field Complex.  Development drilling in this four field
       complex continues to be active. In 2002 we drilled 16 wells, 15 of which
       were successful. Net production fourth quarter 2002 averaged 9.6 Mmcfe/d.
       We anticipate drilling between 15 and 25 wells in this region in each of
       the next two years.

     Mid-Continent.  Our Mid-Continent operations are currently focused in
Oklahoma and Kansas. Oil production is concentrated in our operated waterfloods
in Oklahoma, while natural gas production is primarily from third party operated
wells in Oklahoma and in our operated wells in Kansas.

                                        27
<PAGE>

  GULF OF MEXICO DIVISION

     The Gulf of Mexico Division represented 19% of the net present value of our
estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2002, and contributed 29% of our
fourth quarter 2002 net production. As of December 31, 2002, we have interests
in 318,469 developed and 312,245 undeveloped gross acres in the Gulf of Mexico
and in 140 gross (approximately 39 net) producing wells.

     In addition to a production base with numerous exploitation opportunities
within our developed acreage, the Gulf of Mexico provides us with moderate-risk
exploration targets. We drilled 16 exploration wells in the Gulf of Mexico in
2001, 11 of which were successful, and 12 exploration wells 2002, 3 of which
were successful. We have under license 3-D seismic data covering approximately
19,500 square miles (approximately 2,500 blocks) and 2-D seismic data covering
150,000 linear miles within the Gulf of Mexico.

     West Cameron Blocks 180/198.  The West Cameron Blocks 180/198 complex is
located 30 miles offshore in 52 feet of water. In 2002, we drilled 2 development
wells, 1 of which was successful. Several recompletions were also done in 2002.
The complex has produced approximately 1.7 Tcf of natural gas and 10 Mmbbl of
oil from over 20 separate producing zones since its discovery. In fourth quarter
2002, the field produced 36.1 Mmcfe/d net to our interest.

     High Island Block 197.  This field is located approximately 28 miles
offshore in 50 feet of water and was discovered in the third quarter of 2001. We
have a 25% non-operated working interest in the field. Four additional wells
have been drilled, three of which were successful. The field commenced
production in May 2002, from one well. In fourth quarter 2002 the field averaged
17.9 Mmcfe/d net to our interest.

     High Island Block 84.  This field is located approximately 23 miles
offshore in 50 feet of water and was discovered in the third quarter of 2001,
with three development wells being drilled in 2002. We operate the field.
Production commenced in June 2002 from two wells. We expect the two remaining
wells to commence production in 2003. In fourth quarter 2002 the field averaged
8.3 Mmcfe/d net to our interest.

     South Timbalier Block 316.  We discovered this field located approximately
66 miles offshore in 400 feet of water in the fourth quarter of 2001. We operate
the field with a 40% working interest. Three wells have been drilled in the
field. We expect to install a platform and commence production in the second
half of 2003. Facility capacity on the platform will be 150 Mmcfe/d (47 Mmcfe/d
net).

     Galveston Block 352.  We drilled a successful exploratory well in the
spring of 2002 and put the well on production in August. We operate the well
with a 67% working interest. In fourth quarter 2002 it averaged 2.2 Mmcfe/d net
to our interest.

     Green Canyon Block 640.  We have a 3.5% overriding royalty interest in the
Green Canyon Block 640, covering part of a 2002 discovery drilled by
ChevronTexaco. Delineation drilling and evaluation within the field called
Tahiti is ongoing.

                                        28
<PAGE>

PROVED RESERVES

     The following table sets forth estimated proved reserves for the periods
indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          AS OF DECEMBER 31,
                                                --------------------------------------
                                                   2002          2001          2000
                                                ----------     --------     ----------
<S>                                             <C>            <C>          <C>
OIL (MBBLS)
  Developed...................................      60,576       51,068         28,673
  Undeveloped.................................      18,593       17,588          6,127
                                                ----------     --------     ----------
     Total....................................      79,169       68,656         34,800
                                                ==========     ========     ==========
NATURAL GAS (MMCF)
  Developed...................................     676,365      401,106        183,872
  Undeveloped.................................     425,018      115,050         58,839
                                                ----------     --------     ----------
     Total....................................   1,101,383      516,156        242,711
                                                ==========     ========     ==========
NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (MBBLS)
  Developed...................................         378          119            247
  Undeveloped.................................         154          199            212
                                                ----------     --------     ----------
     Total....................................         532          318            459
                                                ==========     ========     ==========
TOTAL (MMCFE).................................   1,579,589      930,000        454,265
                                                ==========     ========     ==========
PRESENT VALUE ($ IN THOUSANDS)
  Developed...................................  $1,744,795     $737,625     $1,234,605
  Undeveloped.................................     661,023      186,718        336,287
                                                ----------     --------     ----------
     Total....................................  $2,405,818(1)  $924,343(2)  $1,570,892
                                                ==========     ========     ==========
STANDARDIZED MEASURE ($ IN THOUSANDS)(3)......  $1,766,451     $747,029     $1,098,399
                                                ==========     ========     ==========
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) The difference in net present value from December 31, 2001 to December 31,
    2002 resulted almost entirely from (i) the addition of 722.7 Bcfe of proved
    reserves acquired in connection with the Williston Basin, Southeast Texas
    and Utah acquisitions, (ii) the addition of 58 Bcfe as discoveries and
    extensions and (iii) the increase in commodity prices used to determine net
    present value (from $19.78 to $31.23 per bbl of oil and from $2.72 to $4.58
    per Mmbtu of natural gas).

(2) The difference in net present value from December 31, 2000 to December 31,
    2001 resulted almost entirely from (i) the addition of 502.7 Bcfe of proved
    reserves acquired in connection with the merger between Westport Resources
    Corporation and Belco Oil & Gas Corp., (ii) the addition of 92 Bcfe as
    discoveries and extensions, (iii) the downward revision of 33 Bcfe due to
    revisions of previous estimates and (iv) the decrease in commodity prices
    used to determine net present value (from $26.83 to $19.78 per bbl of oil
    and from $9.52 to $2.72 per Mmbtu of natural gas).

(3) The standardized measure is the value of the future after-tax net revenues
    discounted at 10%. The difference between the net present value and the
    standardized measure is the effect of income taxes discounted at 10%.

     Estimated quantities of our oil and gas reserves and the net present value
of such reserves as of December 31, 2002 are based upon reserve reports prepared
by Ryder Scott Company, L.P. and our engineering staff. Ryder Scott reports
covered 81% of the total net present value of estimates of total proved
reserves, evaluating 58% and auditing 23%. The internally generated report
covered the remaining 19% of the net present value. At December 31, 2001 Ryder
Scott audited 87% of the total net present value of estimates of total proved
reserves and the remaining 13% of net present value of the reserves was
unaudited. Estimates of total proved reserves at December 31, 2000 were prepared
by Ryder Scott and Netherland, Sewell and

                                        29
<PAGE>

Associates, Inc. and our engineering staff. The Ryder Scott and Netherland
Sewell reports covered approximately 85% of the total net present value of our
reserves and the internally generated report covered the remaining 15% of the
net present value for 2000.

     Proved developed reserves are proved reserves that are expected to be
recovered from existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Proved undeveloped reserves are proved reserves that are expected to be
recovered from new wells drilled to known reservoirs on undrilled acreage for
which the existence and recoverability of such reserves can be estimated with
reasonable certainty, or from existing wells where a relatively major
expenditure is required to establish production.

     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of
proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of
exploitation expenditures. The data in the above tables represent estimates
only. Oil and natural gas reserve engineering is inherently a subjective process
of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be
measured exactly, and estimates of other engineers might differ materially from
those shown above. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the
quality of available data and engineering and geological interpretation and
judgment. Results of drilling, testing and production after the date of the
estimate may justify revisions. Accordingly, reserve estimates may vary from the
quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered.

     Future prices received for production and costs may vary, perhaps
significantly, from the prices and costs assumed for purposes of these
estimates. The present value shown should not be construed as the current market
value of the reserves. The 10% discount factor used to calculate present value,
which is mandated by generally accepted accounting principles, is not
necessarily the most appropriate discount rate. The present value, no matter
what discount rate is used, is materially affected by assumptions as to timing
of future production, which may prove to be inaccurate. For properties that we
operate, expenses exclude our share of overhead charges. In addition, the
calculation of estimated future net revenues does not take into account the
effect of various cash outlays, including, among other things, general and
administrative costs and interest expense.

PRODUCTION AND PRICE HISTORY

     The following table sets forth information regarding net production of oil,
natural gas and natural gas liquids, and certain price and cost information for
each of the periods indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                         ----------------------------
                                                           2002      2001      2000
                                                         --------   -------   -------
<S>                                                      <C>        <C>       <C>
PRODUCTION DATA(2):
Oil (Mbbls)............................................     7,927     4,929     3,584
Natural Gas (Mmcf).....................................    81,787    58,430    34,072
NGL (Mbbls)............................................        93        22        41
Total Mmcfe............................................   129,908    88,136    55,822
AVERAGE PRICES(1):
Oil (Mbbls)............................................  $  23.66   $ 21.69   $ 27.98
Natural Gas (Mmcf).....................................      2.94      3.59      4.21
NGL (Mbbls)............................................     16.00     18.97     21.02
Total Mmcfe............................................      3.30      3.60      4.38
AVERAGE COSTS (PER MCFE):
Lease operating expense................................  $    .69   $   .63   $   .62
General and administrative.............................       .18       .20       .14
Depletion, depreciation, and amortization..............      1.56      1.41      1.16
</Table>

                                        30
<PAGE>

- ---------------

(1) Does not include the effects of hedging transactions.

(2) Production and price history for the Western Division consisting of the
    Acquired Properties are included only for the period from December 17, 2002,
    the acquisition date, to December 31, 2002.

PRODUCING WELLS

     The following table sets forth information at December 31, 2002 relating to
the producing wells in which we owned a working interest as of that date. We
also held royalty interests in 1,865 producing wells as of that date. Wells are
classified as oil or natural gas wells according to their predominant production
stream.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                            GROSS PRODUCING   NET PRODUCING   AVERAGE WORKING
                                                 WELLS            WELLS          INTEREST
                                            ---------------   -------------   ---------------
<S>                                         <C>               <C>             <C>
Crude oil and liquids.....................       3,061            1,414            46.2%
Natural gas...............................       3,554            1,553            43.7%
                                                 -----            -----
  Total...................................       6,615            2,967              --
                                                 =====            =====
</Table>

ACREAGE

     The following table sets forth information at December 31, 2002 relating to
acreage held by us. Developed acreage is assigned to producing wells.
Undeveloped acreage is acreage held under lease, permit, contract or option that
is not in a spacing unit for a producing well, including leasehold interests
identified for exploitation or exploratory drilling. The term "gross acres"
refers to the total number of acres in which we own a working interest. The term
"net acres" refers to gross acres multiplied by our fractional working interest
therein.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              GROSS ACREAGE   NET ACREAGE
                                                              -------------   -----------
<S>                                                           <C>             <C>
DEVELOPED:
  Northern..................................................      563,695        241,059
  Western...................................................      212,880        192,070
  Southern..................................................      540,429        250,093
  Gulf of Mexico............................................      318,469         80,339
                                                                ---------      ---------
  Total Developed...........................................    1,635,473        763,561
UNDEVELOPED:
  Northern..................................................    1,145,920        497,908
  Western...................................................       53,120         51,930
  Southern..................................................       88,196         41,452
  Gulf of Mexico............................................      312,245        189,276
                                                                ---------      ---------
  Total Undeveloped.........................................    1,599,481        780,566
                                                                ---------      ---------
     Total..................................................    3,234,954      1,544,127
                                                                =========      =========
</Table>

DRILLING RESULTS

     The following table sets forth information with respect to wells drilled
during the periods indicated. The information should not be considered
indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is
necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled,
quantities of reserves found or

                                        31
<PAGE>

economic value. Productive wells are those that produce commercial quantities of
hydrocarbons, whether or not they produce a reasonable rate of return.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------
                                                               2002     2001     2000
                                                              ------   ------   ------
<S>                                                           <C>      <C>      <C>
DEVELOPMENT WELLS:
  Productive
     Gross..................................................  194.0    242.0    169.0
     Net....................................................   96.0     86.0     40.0
  Dry
     Gross..................................................    6.0      9.0      8.0
     Net....................................................    3.7      3.4      1.7
EXPLORATORY WELLS:
  Productive
     Gross..................................................    6.0     18.0     12.0
     Net....................................................    2.4      5.9      5.8
  Dry
     Gross..................................................   13.0      6.0      8.0
     Net....................................................    5.5      3.3      3.4
</Table>

     As of December 31, 2002, 6 additional exploration and eleven development
wells were in progress.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     Westport Oil and Gas Company, L.P., our wholly-owned subsidiary, is a
defendant in a case brought in July 2001 against its predecessor, Belco Energy
Corp., in the district court of Sweetwater County, Wyoming. The complaint seeks
damages on behalf of a purported class of royalty owners for alleged improper
deduction, valuation and reporting under the Wyoming Royalty Payment Act in
connection with royalty payments made by Belco on production from wells it
operates in the Moxa Arch area of the Green River Basin. Plaintiffs have advised
us that they calculate the amount of damages allegedly owed by Belco to be
approximately $1,165,000, which includes attorneys fees and litigation costs. We
have denied liability for any of these damages and believe that we have valid
defenses to plaintiffs' claims. Class certification and discovery have been
stayed pending the decision by the Wyoming Supreme Court in a case involving
unrelated parties that may have a bearing on this case and other similar cases
filed by plaintiffs against other oil and gas industry operators in the Green
River Basin. Settlement discussions have occurred with plaintiffs and are
ongoing. We believe that our potential liability with respect to this proceeding
is not material in the aggregate to our financial position, results of
operations or cash flows. Accordingly, we have not established a reserve for
loss in connection with this proceeding.

     From time to time, we may be a party to various other legal proceedings.
Except as discussed herein, we are not currently party to any material pending
legal proceedings.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year
covered by this Form 10-K to a vote of our security holders, through the
solicitation of proxies or otherwise.

                                        32
<PAGE>

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK

     Our common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange, or
NYSE, under the symbol "WRC." Prior to our merger with and into Belco, Belco
common stock was listed and traded on the NYSE under the symbol "BOG." The
following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of Belco and
Westport common stock on the NYSE, for the periods indicated:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         BELCO             WESTPORT
                                                    COMMON STOCK(1)    COMMON STOCK(2)
                                                    ---------------    ----------------
                                                     HIGH      LOW      HIGH      LOW
                                                    ------    -----    ------    ------
<S>                                                 <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>
2000
First Quarter.....................................  $11.25    $5.31    $   --    $   --
Second Quarter....................................   10.50     7.38        --        --
Third Quarter.....................................    9.63     8.00        --        --
Fourth Quarter....................................   12.44     8.50        --        --
2001
First Quarter.....................................  $12.75    $8.40    $   --    $   --
Second Quarter....................................   10.60     7.90        --        --
Third Quarter (through August 20, 2001)...........    9.15     8.20        --        --
Third Quarter (from August 21, 2001)..............      --       --     20.39     12.60
Fourth Quarter....................................      --       --     17.94     13.90
2002
First Quarter.....................................  $   --    $  --    $19.77    $15.44
Second Quarter....................................      --       --     21.18     15.40
Third Quarter.....................................      --       --     18.69     13.20
Fourth Quarter....................................      --       --     21.40     16.20
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Stock price information for periods prior to August 21, 2001, the effective
    date of the merger with Belco, are for shares of Belco common stock listed
    and traded on the NYSE under the symbol "BOG." August 20, 2001 was the last
    full trading day on which shares of Belco common stock were traded prior to
    the merger with Belco.

(2) The merger with Belco became effective on August 21, 2001. In accordance
    with the agreement governing the merger with Belco, each outstanding share
    of Belco common stock was exchanged for 0.4125 of a share of Westport common
    stock.

DIVIDEND POLICY

     We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We
anticipate that we will retain all future earnings and other cash resources for
investment in our business. Accordingly, we do not intend to declare or pay cash
dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Payment of any future
dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of
directors after taking into account many factors, including our financial
condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs and plans for
expansion. The declaration and payment of any future dividends is currently
prohibited by our Revolving Credit Facility and may be similarly restricted in
the future.

RECENT SALES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES

     On November 19, 2002, we completed the private equity offering of 3.125
million shares of our common stock to Spindrift Partners, L.P., Spindrift
Investors (Bermuda) L.P., Global Natural Resources III and

                                        33
<PAGE>

Global Natural Resources III L.P. at a net price to us of $16.00 per share for
aggregate proceeds of $50 million. The purchasers may be prohibited from selling
this common stock at our option for up to 187 days in the event we pursue a
public equity offering during the next two years. The terms of the sale were
negotiated on November 11, 2002 and the net price represents a 9% discount from
the closing price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of that
date.

     In connection with the private equity offering, we agreed to file a shelf
registration statement registering the resale by the selling stockholders from
time to time of the common stock we issued in the private equity offering. We
also agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to cause the registration
statement to become effective within 90 days of the closing of the private
equity offering. In addition, we agreed, subject to certain rights of
suspension, to keep such registration statement effective until the earlier of
(1) the date on which all of the shares have been (a) sold under the
registration statement or (b) distributed pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the
Securities Act or (2) two years after the date of the stock purchase agreement.
On December 31, 2002, we filed the shelf registration statement registering the
resale by the selling stockholders from time to time of our common stock issued
in the private equity offering, which registration statement was declared
effective by the SEC on January 7, 2003.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data for
Westport as of the dates and for the periods indicated. The financial data for
the five years ended December 31, 2002 were derived from our Consolidated
Financial Statements. Future results may differ substantially from historical
results because of changes in oil and natural gas prices, increases or decreases
in production or other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The
following data should be read in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," which includes a
discussion of factors materially affecting the comparability of the information
presented, and our financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere
in this report.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                        YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
                                       --------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2002          2001          2000         1999        1998
                                       ----------   ------------   ----------   ----------   --------
                                                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                    <C>          <C>            <C>          <C>          <C>
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS DATA:
Operating revenues:
  Oil and natural gas sales..........  $  429,260    $  317,278     $244,669     $ 83,393    $ 52,057
  Hedge settlements..................      (1,276)        2,091      (24,627)      (7,905)        298
  Commodity price risk management
     activities:
     Non-hedge settlements...........         822        15,300           --           --          --
     Non-hedge change in fair value
       of derivatives................     (26,723)       14,323         (739)          --          --
  Gain (loss) on sale of operating
     assets, net.....................      (1,685)         (132)       3,130        3,637          --
                                       ----------    ----------     --------     --------    --------
       Net revenues..................     400,398       348,860      222,433       79,125      52,355
                                       ----------    ----------     --------     --------    --------
Operating costs and expenses:
  Lease operating expenses...........      89,328        55,315       34,397       22,916      21,554
  Production taxes...................      23,954        13,407       10,631        5,742       3,888
  Transportation costs...............       8,791         5,157        3,034        1,725         850
  Exploration........................      32,390        31,313       12,790        7,314      14,664
  Depletion, depreciation and
     amortization....................     203,093       124,059       64,856       25,210      36,264
  Impairment of proved properties....      19,700         9,423        2,911        3,072       8,794
  Impairment of unproved
     properties......................       9,961         6,974        5,124        2,273       1,898
  Stock compensation expense, net....       4,608           719        5,539(1)        --          --
  General and administrative.........      23,629        17,678        7,542        5,297       5,913
                                       ----------    ----------     --------     --------    --------
     Total operating expenses........     415,454       264,045      146,824       73,549      93,825
                                       ----------    ----------     --------     --------    --------
     Operating income (loss).........     (15,056)       84,815       75,609        5,576     (41,470)
</Table>

                                        34
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                        YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
                                       --------------------------------------------------------------
                                          2002          2001          2000         1999        1998
                                       ----------   ------------   ----------   ----------   --------
                                                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                    <C>          <C>            <C>          <C>          <C>
Other income (expense):
  Interest expense...................     (34,836)      (13,196)      (9,731)      (9,207)     (8,323)
  Interest income....................         546         1,668        1,230          489         403
  Change in interest rate swap fair
     value...........................         226         4,960           --           --          --
  Other..............................       1,002           211          152           16          29
                                       ----------    ----------     --------     --------    --------
     Income (loss) before income
       taxes.........................     (48,118)       78,458       67,260       (3,126)    (49,361)
     Benefit (provision) for income
       taxes.........................      19,552       (28,637)     (23,724)          --          --
                                       ----------    ----------     --------     --------    --------
       Net income (loss).............     (28,566)       49,821       43,536       (3,126)    (49,361)
     Preferred stock dividends.......       4,762         1,587           --           --          --
                                       ----------    ----------     --------     --------    --------
     Net income (loss) available to
       common stockholders...........  $  (33,328)   $   48,234     $ 43,536     $ (3,126)   $(49,361)
                                       ==========    ==========     ========     ========    ========
Weighted average number of common
  shares outstanding:
  Basic..............................      53,007        43,408       28,296       14,727      11,004
                                       ==========    ==========     ========     ========    ========
  Diluted............................      53,007        44,168       28,645       14,727      11,004
                                       ==========    ==========     ========     ========    ========
Net income (loss) per common share:
  Basic..............................  $    (0.63)   $     1.11     $   1.54     $  (0.21)   $  (4.49)
                                       ==========    ==========     ========     ========    ========
  Diluted............................  $    (0.63)   $     1.09     $   1.52     $  (0.21)   $  (4.49)
                                       ==========    ==========     ========     ========    ========
OTHER FINANCIAL DATA:
Net cash provided by operating
  activities.........................  $  223,197    $  195,273     $143,429     $ 21,279    $  7,622
Net cash provided by (used in)
  investing activities...............    (814,163)     (188,686)    (140,169)      17,981    (113,019)
Net cash provided by (used in)
  financing activities...............     606,396           843       (2,581)     (29,933)    104,667
Capital expenditures.................     827,502       194,244      146,086       14,005     113,008
BALANCE SHEET DATA (AS OF PERIOD
  END):
Cash and cash equivalents............  $   42,761    $   27,584     $ 20,154     $ 19,475    $ 10,148
Working capital (deficit)............     (11,068)       13,365       20,487       12,837     (30,993)
Total assets.........................   2,233,541     1,604,216      551,831      271,477     302,302
Total long-term debt.................     799,358       429,224          162      105,462     121,333
Total debt...........................     799,358       429,224          162      106,795     153,128
Total stockholders' equity...........   1,132,006       920,296      458,056      140,011     126,737
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Includes compensation expenses of $3.4 million recorded as a result of a
    one-time repurchase of employee stock options in March 2000 in connection
    with the merger between Westport Oil and Gas and EPGC.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

GENERAL

     The following information should be read in conjunction with our historical
consolidated financial statements and related notes and other financial
information included elsewhere in this report.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

     Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of
operation are based upon consolidated financial statements, which have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements
requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Our significant accounting policies
are described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial

                                        35
<PAGE>

statements included in this report. In response to SEC Release No. 33-8040,
"Cautionary Advice Regarding Disclosure About Critical Accounting Policies," we
have identified certain of these policies as being of particular importance to
the portrayal of our financial position and results of operations and which
require the application of significant judgment by our management. We analyze
our estimates, including those related to oil and gas revenues, oil and gas
properties, fair value of derivative instruments, income taxes and contingencies
and litigation, and base our estimates on historical experience and various
other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or
conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our
more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements:

     - Revenue Recognition.  We follow the sales method of accounting for oil
       and natural gas revenues. Under this method, revenues are recognized
       based on actual volumes of oil and natural gas sold to purchasers. No
       receivables, payables, or unearned revenue are recorded unless a working
       interest owner's aggregate sales from the property exceed its share of
       the total reserves-in-place. If such a situation arises, the parties
       would likely cash balance.

     - Successful Efforts Accounting.  We account for our oil and natural gas
       operations using the successful efforts method of accounting. Under this
       method, all costs associated with property acquisition, successful
       exploratory wells and all development wells are capitalized. Items
       charged to expense generally include geological and geophysical costs,
       costs of unsuccessful exploratory wells and oil and natural gas
       production costs. All of our oil and natural gas properties are located
       within the continental United States, the Gulf of Mexico and Canada.

     - Proved Reserve Estimates.  Estimates of our proved reserves included in
       this report are prepared in accordance with GAAP and SEC guidelines. The
       accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of:

      - the quality and quantity of available data;

      - the interpretation of that data;

      - the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and

      - the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate.

      Our proved reserve information included in this report is based on
      estimates prepared by Ryder Scott Company, Netherland, Sewell &
      Associates, Inc. and our engineering staff. Estimates prepared by others
      may be higher or lower than our estimates.

      Because these estimates depend on many assumptions, all of which may
      substantially differ from actual results, reserve estimates may be
      different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately
      recovered. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production after
      the date of an estimate may justify material revisions to the estimate.

      Our stockholders should not assume that the present value of future net
      cash flows is the current market value of our estimated proved reserves.
      In accordance with SEC requirements, we based the estimated discounted
      future net cash flows from proved reserves on prices and costs as of the
      date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially
      higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate.

      Our estimates of proved reserves directly impact depletion expense. If the
      estimates of proved reserves decline, the rate at which we record
      depletion expense increases, reducing net income. Such a decline may
      result from lower market prices or increases in costs, which may make it
      uneconomic to drill for and produce higher cost fields, or property
      performance. In addition, the decline in proved reserve estimates may
      impact the outcome of our assessment of our oil and gas producing
      properties for impairment.

     - Impairment of Proved Oil and Gas Properties.  We review our long-lived
       proved properties to be held and used whenever management judges that
       events or circumstances indicate that the recorded carrying value of the
       properties may not be recoverable. Management assesses whether or not an

                                        36
<PAGE>

       impairment provision is necessary based upon management's outlook of
       future commodity prices and net cash flows that may be generated by the
       properties. Proved oil and gas properties are reviewed for impairment on
       a field-by-field basis, which is the lowest level at which depletion of
       proved properties is calculated.

     - Impairment of Goodwill.  Goodwill of a reporting unit is tested for
       impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs
       or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair
       value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Management assesses
       whether or not an impairment provision is necessary based upon comparing
       the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value including
       goodwill.

     - Impairment of Unproved Oil and Gas Properties.  Management periodically
       assesses individually significant unproved oil and gas properties for
       impairment, on a project-by-project basis. Management's assessment of the
       results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned
       future sales or expiration of all or a portion of such projects impact
       the amount and timing of impairment provisions.

     - Commodity Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  We periodically
       enter into commodity derivative contracts and fixed-price physical
       contracts to manage our exposure to oil and natural gas price volatility.
       We primarily utilize future contracts, swaps or options, which are
       generally placed with major financial institutions or with counterparties
       of high credit quality that we believe are minimal credit risks. The oil
       and natural gas reference prices of these commodity derivatives contracts
       are based upon crude oil and natural gas futures, which have a high
       degree of historical correlation with actual prices we receive. On
       January 1, 2001, we adopted SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
       Instruments and Hedging Activities." Under SFAS No. 133 all derivative
       instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in
       the derivative's fair value are recognized currently in earnings unless
       specific hedge accounting criteria are met. For qualifying cash flow
       hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative is deferred in accumulated
       other comprehensive income (loss) to the extent the hedge is effective.
       For qualifying fair value hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative is
       offset by related results of the hedged item in the income statement.
       Gains and losses on hedging instruments included in accumulated other
       comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to oil and natural gas sales
       revenue in the period that the related production is delivered.
       Derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment
       are recorded as derivative assets and liabilities at market value in the
       consolidated balance sheet, and the associated unrealized gains and
       losses are recorded as current expense or income in the consolidated
       statement of operations. While such derivative contracts do not qualify
       for hedge accounting, management believes these contracts can be utilized
       as an effective component of commodity price risk management, or CPRM,
       activities.

     - Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets.  The Company computes income taxes in
       accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." SFAS No. 109
       requires an asset and liability approach which results in the recognition
       of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future tax
       consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and
       the tax basis of those assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 109 also requires
       the recording of a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that
       some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.

OVERVIEW

     We are an independent energy company engaged in oil and natural gas
exploitation, acquisition and exploration activities primarily in the United
States. Our reserves and production operations are concentrated in the following
diversified divisions: Northern (Rocky Mountains); Western (Uinta Basin);
Southern (Permian Basin, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast) and Gulf of Mexico
(offshore). We focus on maintaining a balanced portfolio of lower-risk,
long-life onshore reserves and higher-margin offshore reserves to provide a
diversified cash flow foundation for our exploitation, acquisition and
exploration activities.

     Our results of operations are significantly impacted by the prices of oil
and natural gas, which are volatile. In 2002, oil and natural gas prices
increased compared to prices in 2001. Oil and natural gas prices increased

                                        37
<PAGE>

from $2.72 per Mcf and $19.78 per bbl at December 31, 2001 to $4.58 per Mcf and
$31.23 per bbl at December 31, 2002.

     Oil and natural gas production costs are composed of lease operating
expense and production taxes. Lease operating expense consists of pumpers'
salaries, utilities, maintenance and other costs necessary to operate our
producing properties. In general, lease operating expense per unit of production
is lower on our offshore properties and does not fluctuate proportionately with
our production. Production taxes are assessed by applicable taxing authorities
as a percentage of revenues. However, properties located in Federal waters
offshore are generally not subject to production taxes. Transportation costs are
comprised of costs paid to a carrier to deliver oil or natural gas to a
specified delivery point. In some cases we receive a payment from the purchases
of our oil and natural gas, which is net of gas transportation costs and in
other instances we pay the costs of transportation.

     Exploration expense consists of geological and geophysical costs, delay
rentals and the cost of unsuccessful exploratory wells. Delay rentals are
typically fixed in nature in the short term. However, other exploration costs
are generally discretionary and exploration activity levels are determined by a
number of factors, including oil and natural gas prices, availability of funds,
quantity and character of investment projects, availability of service providers
and competition.

     Depletion of capitalized costs of producing oil and natural gas properties
is computed using the units-of-production method based upon proved reserves. For
purposes of computing depletion, proved reserves are redetermined twice each
year. Because the economic life of each producing well depends upon the assumed
price for production, fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices impact the
level of proved reserves. Higher prices generally have the effect of increasing
reserves, which reduces depletion, while lower prices generally have the effect
of decreasing reserves, which increases depletion.

     We assess our proved properties on a field-by-field basis for impairment,
in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived
Assets to be Disposed of," whenever events or circumstances indicate that the
capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties may not be recoverable. When
making such assessments, we compare the expected undiscounted future net
revenues on a field-by-field basis with the related net capitalized costs at the
end of each year. When the net capitalized costs exceed the undiscounted future
net revenues, the cost of the property is written down to "fair value," which is
determined using discounted future net revenues based on escalated prices.
Impairments for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 were calculated
based on the following assumed oil and natural gas prices that we believe were
representative of market pricing assumptions at the time:

     - At December 31, 2002, we assumed that oil prices in 2003, 2004 and 2005
       would be $27.84, $24.09 and $23.48 per barrel, respectively, and would
       remain constant thereafter. We also assumed that natural gas prices in
       2003, 2004 and 2005 would be $4.26, $4.14 and $3.88 per Mcf,
       respectively, and would remain constant thereafter.

     - At December 31, 2001, we assumed that oil prices in 2002 would be $20.84
       per barrel and would escalate at an annual rate of 2.5% thereafter. We
       also assumed that natural gas prices in 2002 and 2003 would be $2.75 and
       $3.05 per Mcf, respectively, and would escalate at an annual rate of 2.5%
       thereafter.

     - At December 31, 2000, we assumed that oil prices in 2001 would be $24.70
       per barrel and would escalate at an annual rate of 2.5% thereafter. We
       also assumed that natural gas prices in 2001 would be $4.48 per Mcf and
       would escalate at an annual rate of 2.5% thereafter.

     In 2002 estimates of declining production were based on internal estimates
of which 81% of the net present value was evaluated or audited by independent
reserve engineers and estimated operating costs and severance taxes were based
on past experience. We also assumed at December 31, 2002 that operating and
future development costs would remain constant thereafter. At December 31, 2001
and 2000, respectively, we assumed that operating and future development costs
would escalate at an annual rate of 2.5% in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Reserve
categories used in the impairment analysis for all periods considered are
categories

                                        38
<PAGE>

of proved reserves and probable and possible reserves, which were risk adjusted
based on our drilling plans and history of successfully developing those types
of reserves. We periodically assess our unproved properties to determine if any
such properties have been impaired. Such assessment is based on, among other
things, the fair value of properties located in the same area as the unproved
property and our intent to pursue additional exploration opportunities on such
property.

     Stock compensation expense consists of noncash charges resulting from the
application of the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 44 to certain stock
options granted to employees and issuance of restricted stock to certain
employees. Under Interpretation No. 44 we are required to measure compensation
cost on stock options that are considered to be variable awards until the date
of exercise, forfeiture or expiration of such options. Compensation cost is
measured for the amount of any increases in our stock price and recognized over
the remaining vesting period of the options. Any decrease in our stock price
will be recognized as a decrease in compensation cost limited to the amount of
compensation cost previously recognized as a result of an increase in our stock
price.

     General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and
related benefits, office rent, legal fees, consultants, systems costs and other
administrative costs incurred in our Denver, Dallas, Houston and other offices.
While we expect such costs to increase with our growth, we expect such increases
to be proportionately smaller than our production growth.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     Westport was formed by the merger on April 7, 2000 of Westport Oil and Gas
with EPGC. As a result of the merger, Westport Oil and Gas became a wholly owned
subsidiary of EPGC, which subsequently changed its name to Westport Resources
Corporation, and the stockholders of Westport Oil and Gas became the majority
stockholders of EPGC. The senior management team of Westport Oil and Gas became
the management team for the combined company, complemented by certain key
managers from EPGC. The merger between EPGC and Westport Oil and Gas was
accounted for using purchase accounting with Westport Oil and Gas as the
surviving accounting entity. Westport began consolidating the results of EPGC
with the results of Westport Oil and Gas as of the April 7, 2000 closing date.

     On August 21, 2001, the stockholders of Belco approved an agreement and
plan of merger, dated as of June 8, 2001, between Belco and Westport. Pursuant
to this agreement, Westport was merged with and into Belco, with Belco surviving
and changing its name to Westport Resources Corporation. The merger was
accounted for as a purchase transaction for financial accounting purposes with
Westport as the surviving accounting entity. Westport began consolidating the
results of Belco with its results as of the August 21, 2001 closing date.

     On September 30, 2002, we acquired oil and gas properties located in
Southeast Texas for a total cash purchase price of approximately $122 million.
We operate substantially all of the properties. The purchase also includes
10,000 net undeveloped acres and an interest in 120 square miles of 3-D seismic
data. Operations from the properties were included in 2002 for the period from
October 1, 2002 to December 31, 2002.

     On December 17, 2002, we acquired producing properties, undeveloped
leaseholds, gathering and compression facilities and other related assets in the
Greater Natural Buttes area of Uintah County, Utah from certain affiliates of El
Paso Corporation for approximately $507 million, subject to certain purchase
price adjustments. Our newly formed Western Division is comprised substantially
of these properties. Operations from the properties were included in our results
for 2002 for the period from December 17, 2002 to December 31, 2002.

                                        39
<PAGE>

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth certain operational data for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.

                                  SUMMARY DATA

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ------------------------------------
                                                                 2002         2001         2000
                                                              ----------   ----------   ----------
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER UNIT DATA)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>          <C>
Production
  Oil (Mbbls)...............................................      7,927        4,929        3,584
  Natural gas (Mmcf)........................................     82,346       58,562       34,318
  Mmcfe.....................................................    129,908       88,136       55,822
Average Daily Production
  Oil (Mbbls/d).............................................       21.7         13.5          9.8
  Natural gas (Mmcf/d)......................................      225.6        160.4         93.8
  Mmcfe/d...................................................      355.9        241.5        152.5
Average prices
  Oil (per bbl).............................................   $  23.66     $  21.69     $  27.98
  Natural gas (per Mcf).....................................       2.94         3.59         4.21
  Hedging effect (per Mcfe).................................       (.01)         .02         (.44)
Oil and natural gas sales...................................   $429,260     $317,278     $244,669
Lease operating expense.....................................     89,328       55,315       34,397
  Per Mcfe..................................................       0.69         0.63         0.62
General and administrative costs............................     23,629       17,678        7,542
  Per Mcfe..................................................       0.18         0.20         0.14
Depletion, depreciation and amortization....................    203,093      124,059       64,856
  Per Mcfe..................................................       1.56         1.41         1.16
</Table>

     The following is a discussion of the financial condition and results of
operations of Westport for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.

     Revenues.  Oil and natural gas revenues for 2002 increased by $112.0
million, or 35%, from $317.3 million in 2001 to $429.3 million in 2002.
Production from the acquired Belco properties and other acquisitions, including
the Williston Basin, Southeast Texas and Utah acquisitions, accounted for $113.9
million and $25.2 million, respectively, of the increase. Revenue also increased
$20.5 million from recent discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico. The increases in
oil and natural gas revenues were partially offset by oil and natural gas
production declines in the Gulf of Mexico developed properties and a decrease in
realized average prices per Mcfe, as discussed below. Production volumes
increased 41.8 Bcfe from 88.1 Bcfe in 2001 to 129.9 Bcfe in 2002. Acquired Belco
properties and other acquisitions, including the Williston Basin, Southeast
Texas and Utah acquisitions, accounted for 31.6 Bcfe and 6.6 Bcfe, respectively,
of the increase. Production volumes also increased 7.0 Bcfe from recent
discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico and 1.6 Bcfe from the horizontal drilling
program in the Wiley Field. The increases in production volumes were partially
offset by oil and natural gas production declines in the Gulf of Mexico
developed properties. Even though realized oil prices increased 9% in 2002
compared to 2001, realized natural gas prices decreased 18% in 2002 compared to
2001 causing the realized average prices per Mcfe to decrease 8%. Hedging
transactions had the effect of reducing oil and natural gas revenues by $1.3
million in 2002, or $0.01 per Mcfe, and increasing oil and natural gas revenues
by $2.1 million in 2001, or $0.02 per Mcfe.

     Oil and natural gas revenues for 2001 increased by $72.6 million, or 30%,
from $244.7 million in 2000 to $317.3 million in 2001. Production from the
acquired Belco properties accounted for $49.6 million of the increase. Revenue
increased $37.1 million from recent discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico. The
increases were

                                        40
<PAGE>

partially offset by decreases of 22% and 15% in realized oil and natural gas
prices, respectively. Production volumes increased 32.3 Bcfe from 55.8 Bcfe in
2000 to 88.1 Bcfe in 2001 (acquired Belco and EPGC properties accounted for 19.2
Bcfe and 0.7 Bcfe of the increase, respectively). Production volumes also
increased 10.7 Bcfe from recent discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico, 0.6 Bcfe from
coalbed methane development in the Powder River Basin area, 0.8 Bcfe from the
horizontal drilling program in the Wiley Field, and 0.6 Bcfe from the acquired
interest in the Ward Estes Field in August 2000. Increases were partially offset
by declines in existing properties. Hedging transactions had the effect of
increasing oil and natural gas revenues by $2.1 million in 2001, or $0.02 per
Mcfe, and reducing oil and natural gas revenues by $24.6 million in 2000, or
$0.44 per Mcfe.

     Commodity Price Risk Management Activities, or CPRM, Activities.  The
Company recorded a net loss of $26.7 million in the non-hedge change in fair
value of derivatives in 2002 compared to a net gain of $14.3 million for 2001.
The non-hedge loss in fair value of derivatives in 2002 in the amount of $18.2
million was related to derivative contracts entered into in anticipation of the
expected production from the Acquired Properties. Upon closing of the
Acquisition, the derivative contracts qualified for hedge accounting treatment.
Net gains of $0.8 million and $15.3 million were recorded in 2002 and 2001,
respectively, for non-hedge settlements of derivatives. The gains and losses
relate to settlements of derivatives and changes in fair value of derivatives
that under SFAS No. 133 do not qualify for hedge accounting.

     For 2001, we recorded a net gain of $14.3 million in the non-hedge change
in fair value of derivatives compared to a net loss of $0.7 million for 2000. A
net gain of $15.3 million was recorded in 2001 for non-hedge settlements of
derivatives. The gains and losses relate to settlements of derivatives and
changes in fair value of derivatives that under SFAS No. 133 do not qualify for
hedge accounting.

     Gain (Loss) on Sale of Operating Assets.  For 2002 and 2001, we recorded
net losses of $1.7 million and $0.1 million, respectively, on sales of non-core
operating assets compared to a net gain of $3.1 million in 2000. The gains and
losses were calculated as the difference between the sales proceeds and the
carrying value of the properties as of the date of the sale.

     Lease Operating Expense.  Lease operating expense for 2002 increased by
$34.0 million, or 61%, from $55.3 million in 2001 to $89.3 million in 2002.
Lease operating expenses from the acquired Belco properties and other
acquisitions, including the Williston Basin, Southeast Texas and Utah
acquisitions, accounted for $25.5 and $4.5 million, respectively, of the
increase. The remaining increase was primarily a result of increased production
from recent offshore discoveries and nonrecurring workover expense in the Gulf
of Mexico. On a per Mcfe basis, lease operating expense increased from $0.63 in
2001 to $0.69 in 2002. The increase on a per Mcfe basis was primarily due to
nonrecurring workover expense performed in 2002 at a rate of $0.06 per Mcfe.

     Lease operating expense for 2001 increased by $20.9 million, or 61%, from
$34.4 million in 2000 to $55.3 million in 2001. Lease operating expenses from
the acquired EPGC properties and Belco properties accounted for $1.3 million and
$11.4 million, respectively, of the increase. Recent discoveries in the Gulf of
Mexico, an increased level of workovers in several of our properties and a
general increase in the cost of oil field services and materials accounted for
the remainder. On a per Mcfe basis, lease operating expense remained relatively
constant at $0.62 in 2000 and $0.63 in 2001.

     Production Taxes.  Production taxes for 2002 increased by $10.6 million, or
79%, from $13.4 million in 2001 to $24.0 million, in 2002. Acquired Belco
properties and other acquisitions, including the Williston Basin, Southeast
Texas and Utah acquisitions, accounted for $9.3 million and $2.3 million,
respectively, of the increase in production taxes. The increase from the
acquired Belco properties and other acquisitions, including the Williston Basin,
Southeast Texas and Utah acquisitions, is partially offset by a decrease in
revenue from onshore properties as a result of a decrease in realized average
oil and natural gas prices. As a percent of oil and natural gas revenues
(excluding the effects of hedges), production taxes increased from 4.2% in 2001
to 5.6% in 2002. The increase in production taxes as a percent of revenue is
primarily the result of the acquired Belco properties and other acquisitions,
which increased the number of onshore properties that are subject to production
taxes.

                                        41
<PAGE>

     Production taxes for 2001 increased by $2.8 million, or 26%, from $10.6
million in 2000 to $13.4 million, in 2001. Acquired Belco properties accounted
for $3.7 million of the increase in production taxes. The increase from the
acquired Belco properties is partially offset by a decrease in revenue from
onshore properties as a result of a decrease in realized oil and natural gas
prices. As a percent of oil and natural gas revenues (excluding the effects of
hedges), production taxes remained relatively constant at 4.3% in 2000 and 4.2%
in 2001.

     Transportation Costs.  Transportation costs for 2002 increased by $3.6
million, or 70%, from $5.2 million in 2001 to $8.8 million in 2002. The increase
from the acquired Belco properties accounted for $2.9 million of the increase.
The remaining increase was primarily due to a one time adjustment related to
certain coalbed methane wells.

     Transportation costs for 2001 increased by $2.2 million, or 70%, from $3.0
million in 2000 to $5.2 million in 2001. The increase was primarily due to
additional offshore and coalbed methane wells that started producing in the
latter part of 2000 and early 2001, which incur higher costs to transport the
natural gas.

     Exploration Costs.  Exploration costs for 2002 increased by $1.1 million,
or 3%, from $31.3 million in 2001 to $32.4 million in 2002. Exploration costs
for 2001 increased by $18.5 million, or 145%, from $12.8 million in 2000 to
$31.3 million in 2001. The following table sets forth the components of our
2002, 2001 and 2000 exploration costs:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                           FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                          ---------------------------------
                                                            2002        2001        2000
                                                          ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                                   (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                       <C>         <C>         <C>
Geological and geophysical costs........................   $10,078     $ 9,877     $ 5,308
Unsuccessful property acquisitions......................       364         482         262
Delay rentals...........................................     2,401       1,681       1,200
Exploratory dry holes...................................    19,547      19,273       6,020
                                                           -------     -------     -------
                                                           $32,390     $31,313     $12,790
</Table>

     Depletion, Depreciation and Amortization, or DD&A, Expense.  DD&A expense
increased $79.0 million in 2002, from $124.1 million in 2001 to $203.1 million
in 2002. DD&A expense related to the acquired Belco properties and other
acquisitions, including the Williston Basin, Southeast Texas and Utah
acquisitions, caused DD&A expense to increase $53.0 million and $8.0 million,
respectively. Recent discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico caused DD&A expense to
increase $17.6 million. The remaining increase was primarily due to the
additions of oil and natural gas properties during 2002. On a per Mcfe basis,
DD&A expense increased from $1.41 to $1.56 primarily due to recent discoveries
in the Gulf of Mexico and acquired Belco properties, which have a higher DD&A
expense per Mcfe.

     DD&A expense increased $59.2 million in 2001, from $64.9 million in 2000 to
$124.1 million in 2001. Depletion related to the acquired EPGC properties and
Belco properties caused DD&A expense to increase $6.4 million and $31.7 million,
respectively. Recent discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico caused DD&A expense to
increase $14.8 million. An increase of $2.1 million was primarily due to
additions in oil and natural gas properties in northern Louisiana in 2001. The
remaining increase was primarily due to the additions of oil and natural gas
properties during 2001. These increases were the primary factors that caused
DD&A expense to increase on a per Mcfe basis from $1.16 in 2000 to $1.41 in
2001.

     Impairment of Proved Properties.  During 2002, 2001 and 2000, we recognized
proved property impairments of $19.7 million, $9.4 million and $2.9 million,
respectively. In 2002, $9.7 million of these impairments were attributable to
unsuccessful development drilling in the Rocky Mountains and the remaining $10.0
million was primarily the result of a decline in oil and natural gas reserve
value due to reserve volume reductions in underperforming fields located onshore
and offshore. Impairments recorded in 2001 were as follows: $4.9 million
resulting from unsuccessful development drilling in the Rocky Mountains, $1.5
million resulting from depressed oil and natural gas prices in the Rocky
Mountains and Mid-Continent, $0.9 million resulting from unsuccessful
development drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and $2.1 million resulting from
depressed natural gas prices in the Gulf of Mexico. Impairments recorded in 2000
were mainly the result of a

                                        42
<PAGE>

decline in oil and natural gas reserve value due to reserve volume reductions in
underperforming fields in Wyoming, offshore and Louisiana.

     Impairment of Unproved Properties.  In 2002, we recognized unproved
property impairments of $10.0 million due to expired leases and from an
assessment of the exploration opportunities existing on such properties. The
impairments were for $4.0 million of leases held offshore, $3.4 million for
leases held in Wyoming, $1.6 million for leases held in Texas and the remaining
impairments were for various leases held in North Dakota and Louisiana. In 2001,
we recognized unproved property impairments of $7.0 million on offshore leases,
as a result of an assessment of the exploration opportunities existing on such
properties. In 2000, we recognized unproved property impairments of $5.1
million, as a result of an assessment of the exploration opportunities existing
on such properties. The $5.1 million consisted of $2.5 million for leases held
in North Dakota, $1.5 million for leases held offshore and $1.1 million for
various leases held in Kansas, Wyoming and Louisiana.

     Stock Compensation Expense.  In 2002, we recorded $4.3 million of stock
compensation expense related to certain stock options as a result of applying
the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 44 and recorded $0.3 million in
expense related to the issuance of restricted stock. In 2001, we recognized $0.4
million of stock compensation expense related to certain stock options as a
result of applying the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 44 and recorded
$0.3 million in expense related to the issuance of restricted stock. In 2000, we
recognized $5.5 million of stock compensation expense due to a $3.4 million
one-time stock compensation charge related to the repurchase of employee stock
options and $2.1 million related to provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 44.

     General and Administrative, or G&A, Expense.  G&A expense increased $5.9
million in 2002, or 34%, from $17.7 million in 2001 to $23.6 million in 2002.
The merger with Belco accounted for $3.8 million of the increase. A majority of
the remaining increase was due to payroll costs resulting from an increase in
staff in 2002 reflecting expanded size and scope of our operations. On a per
Mcfe basis, G&A expense in 2002 was $0.18 compared to $0.20 in 2001.

     G&A expense increased $10.2 million in 2001, or 134%, from $7.5 million in
2000 to $17.7 million in 2001. In connection with the EPGC merger additional
employees were hired in the Houston office, which accounted for a $3.0 million
increase in G&A expense. The merger with Belco accounted for $4.2 million of the
increase. A majority of the remaining increase was due to payroll costs
resulting from an increase in staff in 2001 reflecting expanded size and scope
of our operations as a result of our reporting obligations under the Exchange
Act. On a per Mcfe basis, G&A expense in 2001 was $0.20 compared to $0.14 in
2000.

     Other Income (Expense).  Other expense for 2002 was ($33.1 million)
compared to ($6.4 million) for 2001. Interest expense increased $21.6 million in
2002, as a result of the increase in the debt balance relating to the Belco
merger and the Acquisition. Other income decreased $5.1 million as compared to
2001 primarily due to a decrease of $4.7 million in changes in fair values of
interest rate swap contracts that were not designated as hedges for accounting
purposes.

     Other expense for 2001 was ($6.4 million) compared to ($8.3 million) for
2000. Interest expense increased $3.5 million in 2001, as a result of the
increase in the debt balance relating to the Merger. Other income increased $5.4
million as compared to 2000 primarily due to an increase in interest income of
$0.4 million and changes in fair values of $5.0 million on interest rate swap
contracts that were not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.

     Income Taxes.  We recorded an income tax benefit of $19.6 million for 2002
($17.5 million deferred and $2.1 million current) and $28.6 million income tax
expense ($26.6 million deferred and $2.0 million current) for 2001.

     We recorded income tax expense of $28.6 million ($26.6 million deferred and
$2.0 million current) for 2001 and $23.7 million ($23.0 million deferred and
$0.7 million current) for 2000.

     Net Income (Loss).  Net loss for 2002 was $28.6 million compared to net
income of $49.8 million for 2001. The variance was primarily attributable to
increases in revenues of $51.5 million and the change in the

                                        43
<PAGE>

income taxes from a tax provision to a tax benefit of $48.2 million offset by
increases of $151.4 million in operating expenses and $26.7 million in other
expense. On a per share basis, the 2002 net loss was ($0.63) on both a basic and
fully diluted basis compared to a $1.11 per basic share and $1.09 fully diluted
for 2001 due to an increase of 14.7 million shares outstanding and a net loss.

     Net income for 2001 was $49.8 million compared to net income of $43.5
million for 2000. The variance was primarily attributable to increases in
revenues of $126.4 million and decrease in other expense of $2.0 million offset
by increases of $117.2 million in operating expenses and $4.9 million in income
tax expense. On a per share basis net income declined to $1.11 per basic share,
$1.09 fully diluted from $1.54 per basic share, $1.52 fully diluted due to an
increase of 13.7 million shares outstanding.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Our principal uses of capital have been for the exploitation, acquisition
and exploration of oil and natural gas properties.

     Net cash provided by operating activities was $223.2 million for 2002
compared to $195.3 million for 2001. Net cash provided by operating activities
in 2002 increased compared to 2001 due to a 35% increase in oil and natural gas
sales as a result of the mergers with Belco and other acquisitions, including
the Williston Basin, Southeast Texas and Utah acquisitions, and recent
discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico. Net cash provided by operating activities
increased $51.9 million from $143.4 million for 2000 to $195.3 million for 2001
due to a 58% increase in production as a result of the merger with EPGC and
Belco and 2001 discoveries in the Gulf of Mexico.

     Net cash used in investing activities was $814.2 million for 2002 compared
to $188.7 million for 2001. Investing activities for 2002 include $679.9 million
used for acquisitions and $147.6 million for exploitation and exploration
activities, offset by proceeds from sales of properties of $13.3 million.
Investing activities for 2001 included $187.9 million for exploitation and
exploration activities and $6.3 million for acquisitions, offset by proceeds
from sales of properties of $5.5 million. Net cash used in investing activities
was $188.7 million for 2001 compared to $140.2 million for 2000. Investing
activities for 2000 included $102.2 million for exploitation and exploration
activities and $43.9 million for acquisitions ($42.4 million related to the
merger with EPGC), offset by proceeds from sales of properties of $6.3 million.

     Net cash provided by financing activities was $606.4 million for 2002
compared to $0.8 million in 2001. Financing activities for 2002 consisted of
$639.0 million from the issuance of senior subordinated notes and borrowings of
long-term debt, $267.8 million from the issuance of common stock and $3.7
million from the gain on interest rate swap cancellation, offset by $285.0
million in repayment of long-term debt, new financing fees of $14.3 million and
preferred stock dividends of $4.8 million. Financing activities for 2001
consisted of $577.6 million in repayment of long-term debt, new financing fees
of $10.2 million, stock repurchases of $0.4 million and preferred stock
dividends of $1.6 million, offset by $590.0 million in borrowings and $0.6
million from the issuance of common stock. Net cash provided by financing
activities was $0.8 million for 2001 compared to net cash used in 2000 of $2.6
million. Financing activities for 2000 reflected borrowings of $50.0 million
utilized to consummate the merger with EPGC and $104.1 million from the issuance
of common stock offset by repayments of long-term debt of $156.6 million.

FINANCING ACTIVITY

     The following summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2002
and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash
flow in future periods.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                             PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD
                                          ------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     LESS THAN                               AFTER
        CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS            TOTAL      1 YEAR     1-3 YEARS   3-5 YEARS      5 YEARS
        -----------------------           --------   ---------   ---------   ---------   -------------
                                                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                       <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Long term debt..........................  $799,358    $   --      $   --     $207,587      $591,771
Non-cancelable operating leases.........     6,196     1,196       2,062        2,938            --
                                          --------    ------      ------     --------      --------
Total contractual cash obligations......  $805,554    $1,196      $2,062     $210,525      $591,771
                                          ========    ======      ======     ========      ========
</Table>

                                        44
<PAGE>

  REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY

     On December 17, 2002, we entered into the Revolving Credit Facility with
JPMorgan Chase Bank and Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation to replace our
previous revolving credit facility. The Revolving Credit Facility provides for a
maximum committed amount of $600 million and an initial borrowing base of
approximately $470 million. The facility matures on December 16, 2006 and
contains covenants and default provisions customary for similar credit
facilities. We made borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility to refinance
our outstanding indebtedness under our previous revolving credit facility and to
pay general corporate expenses.

     Advances under the Revolving Credit Facility are in the form of either an
ABR loan or a Eurodollar loan. The interest on an ABR loan is a fluctuating rate
based upon the highest of:

     - the rate of interest announced by JP Morgan Chase Bank, formerly known as
       The Chase Manhattan Bank, as its prime rate;

     - the secondary market rate for three month certificates of deposits plus
       1%; or

     - the Federal funds effective rate plus 0.5%.

in each case plus a margin of 0% to 0.625% based upon the ratio of total debt to
EBITDAX and the ratings of our senior unsecured debt as issued by Standard and
Poor's Rating Group and Moody's Investor Services, Inc.

     The interest on a Eurodollar loan is a fluctuating rate based upon the rate
at which Eurodollar deposits in the London interbank market are quoted plus a
margin of 1.000% to 1.875% based upon the ratio of total debt to EBITDAX and the
ratings of our senior unsecured debt as issued by Standard and Poor's Rating
Group and Moody's Investor Service, Inc.

     As of December 31, 2002, we had borrowings of $80.0 million (with an
average interest rate of 3.3%) and letters of credit issued of approximately
$17.1 million outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility, and available
unused borrowing capacity of approximately $372.9 million.

     As of February 28, 2003, we had borrowings of $80.0 million (with an
average interest rate of 3.3%) and letters of credit issued of approximately
$162.3 million outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility, and available
unused borrowing capacity of approximately $227.7 million. The increase in
letters of credit issued is due to the effect of increased commodity prices on
the margin requirements of our oil and natural gas derivative contracts with our
counterparties. The Revolving Credit Facility currently limits our outstanding
letters of credit to $200 million.

  8 7/8% SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES DUE 2007

     In connection with the merger with Belco, we assumed $147 million face
amount, $149 million fair value, of Belco's 8 7/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due
2007. On November 1, 2001, approximately $24.3 million face amount of these
notes was tendered to us pursuant to the change of control provisions of the
related indenture. The tender price was equal to 101% of the principal amount of
each note plus accrued and unpaid interest as of October 29, 2001. Including the
premium and accrued interest, the total amount paid was $24.8 million. We used
borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund the repayment. No gain or
loss was recorded in connection with the redemption as the fair value of the
8 7/8% Senior Subordinated Notes recorded in connection with the merger with
Belco equaled the redemption cost.

  8 1/4% SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES DUE 2011

     On December 17, 2002, we issued $300 million in additional principal amount
of our 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes Due 2011, or the old notes, pursuant to
Rule 144A under the Securities Act at a price of 103% of the principal amount,
with accrued interest from November 1, 2002. The old notes are additional debt
securities under the Indenture pursuant to which, on November 5, 2001, we issued
$275 million of our 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes Due 2011. On March 14,
2002, all of the 2001 notes were exchanged in an exchange offer for an equal
principal amount of the initial exchange notes. We used the proceeds from the
sale of the old notes to finance, in part, the Acquisition. On January 24, 2003,
we filed the exchange offer

                                        45
<PAGE>

registration statement pursuant to a registration rights agreement relating to
the old notes. In the event we fail to comply with some of our obligations under
the registration rights agreement relating to the old notes, we will pay
additional interest on the old notes. The exchange offer registration statement
was declared effective by the SEC on January 30, 2003. We were offering to
exchange up to $300 million aggregate principal amount of new 8 1/4% Senior
Subordinated Notes Due 2011, or exchange notes, that have been registered under
the Securities Act for an equal principal amount of old notes. The exchange
offer expired at 5 p.m., New York City time, on March 6, 2003. We intend to
close the exchange offer in March of this year.

     The notes are senior subordinated unsecured obligations of Westport and are
fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by some of
our existing and future restricted subsidiaries. The notes mature on November 1,
2011. We pay interest on the notes semiannually on May 1 and November 1. Our
first interest payment on the old notes will be May 1, 2003. We are entitled to
redeem the notes in whole or in part on or after November 1, 2006 for the
redemption price set forth in the notes. Prior to November 1, 2006, we are
entitled to redeem the notes, in whole but not in part, at a redemption price
equal to the principal amount of the notes plus a premium. There is no sinking
fund for the notes. If we fail to comply with some of our obligations under the
registration rights agreement relating to the old notes, we will pay additional
interest on the old notes.

 PRIVATE EQUITY OFFERING

     On November 19, 2002, we completed the private equity offering of 3.125
million shares of our common stock to Spindrift Partners, L.P., Spindrift
Investors (Bermuda) L.P., Global Natural Resources III and Global Natural
Resources III L.P. at a net price to us of $16.00 per share for aggregate
proceeds of $50 million. The purchasers may be prohibited from selling this
common stock at our option for up to 187 days in the event we pursue a public
equity offering during the next two years. The terms of the sale were negotiated
on November 11, 2002 and the net price represents a 9% discount from the closing
price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange as of that date.

     In connection with the private equity offering, we agreed to file a shelf
registration statement registering the resale by the selling stockholders from
time to time of the common stock we issued in the private equity offering. We
also agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to cause the registration
statement to become effective within 90 days of the closing of the private
equity offering. In addition, we agreed, subject to certain rights of
suspension, to keep such registration statement effective until the earlier of
(1) the date on which all of the shares have been (a) sold under the
registration statement or (b) distributed pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the
Securities Act or (2) two years after the date of the stock purchase agreement.
On December 31, 2002, we filed the shelf registration statement registering the
resale by the selling stockholders from time to time of our common stock issued
in the private equity offering, which registration statement was declared
effective by the SEC on January 7, 2003.

  SHELF OFFERING

     On December 16, 2002, we closed the shelf offering of 11.5 million shares
of common stock at a price of $19.90 per share, which includes 1.5 million
shares covered by an over-allotment option we granted to, and which was
exercised by, the underwriters. We received net proceeds of approximately $216.2
million from the sale of our common stock, which we used to finance, in part,
the Acquisition.

  CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

     We anticipate that our capital expenditures, excluding acquisitions, for
2003 will be approximately $230 million. Our capital expenditures for 2002 were
$147.6 million, excluding acquisitions of $679.9 million and geological and
geophysical costs of $10.1 million. We anticipate that our primary cash
requirements for 2003 will include funding acquisitions, funding development
projects and general working capital needs. We will continue to seek
opportunities for acquisitions of proved reserves with substantial exploitation
and exploration potential. The size and timing of capital requirements for
acquisitions is inherently unpredictable and we therefore do not budget for
them. We expect to fund our capital expenditure activities, which include

                                        46
<PAGE>

acquisition, development of and exploration on our oil and gas properties
through cash flow from operations and available capacity under our Revolving
Credit Facility.

     We believe that borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, projected
operating cash flows and cash on hand will be sufficient to meet the
requirements of our business. However, future cash flows are subject to a number
of variables including the level of production and oil and natural gas prices.
We cannot assure you that operations and other capital resources will provide
cash in sufficient amounts to maintain planned levels of capital expenditures or
that increased capital expenditures will not be undertaken. Actual levels of
capital expenditures may vary significantly due to a variety of factors,
including but not limited to:

     - drilling results;

     - product prices;

     - industry conditions and outlook; and

     - future acquisition of properties.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     We periodically enter into commodity price risk management, or CPRM,
transactions to manage our exposure to oil and gas price volatility. CPRM
transactions may take the form of futures contracts, swaps or options. All CPRM
data is presented in accordance with requirements of SFAS No. 133, which the
Company adopted on January 1, 2001. Accordingly, unrealized gains and losses
related to the change in fair market value of derivative contracts that qualify
and are designated as cash flow hedges are recorded as other comprehensive
income or loss and such amounts are reclassified to oil and gas sales revenues
as the associated production occurs. Derivative contracts that do not qualify
for hedge accounting treatment are recorded as derivative assets and liabilities
at market value in the consolidated balance sheet, and the associated unrealized
gains and losses are recorded as current expense or income in the consolidated
statement of operations. While such derivative contracts do not qualify for
hedge accounting, management believes these contracts can be utilized as an
effective component of CPRM activities.

     For 2002 we recorded increases in operating revenues from non-hedge CPRM
settlements in the amount of $0.8 million, which includes ($2.9) million of cash
settlements and non-hedge change in fair value of derivatives of ($26.7)
million, including ($0.1) million of ineffectiveness. The majority or $18.2
million of the non-hedge loss in fair value of derivatives was related to
derivative contracts entered into in anticipation of the expected production
from the Acquired Properties. Upon closing of the Acquisition, the derivative
contracts qualified for hedge accounting treatment.

     For 2002, we recorded hedging settlement losses in the amount of $1.3
million, which includes cash losses of $8.2 million.

     For 2001, we recorded increases in operating revenues from non-hedge CPRM
settlements in the amount of $15.3 million, which includes $3.6 million of cash
settlements and non-hedge change in fair value of derivatives of $14.3 million.
For 2000, we recorded a decrease in operating revenues from non-hedge change in
fair value of derivatives of $0.7 million.

     For 2001, we recorded hedging settlement gains in the amount of $2.1
million, which include cash losses of $4.5 million and for 2000 hedging
settlement losses of $24.6 million.

     As of February 19, 2003, we have approximately 5.2 million barrels of oil
and 73.7 Bcf of natural gas subject to CPRM contracts for 2003. Of these
contracts, all of the oil and 63.4 Bcf of the natural gas contracts are subject
to weighted average NYMEX floor prices of $23.18 per barrel and $3.78 per Mmbtu
and weighted average NYMEX ceiling prices of $25.16 per barrel and $4.20 per
Mmbtu, respectively, excluding the effect, if any, of the three-way floor price.
Of the remaining 2003 gas CPRM contracts, 7.3 Bcf have settlements that are
calculated based on the Northwest Pipeline Rocky Mountain Index, or NWPRM, with
weighted average NWPRM floor and ceiling prices of $3.00 and $3.29,
respectively. The remaining 2003 gas CPRM contract settlements are calculated
based on the Colorado Interstate Gas Rocky Mountain Index, or CIGRM, with a

                                        47
<PAGE>

weighted average swap price of $3.59. In addition, included in the 63.4 Bcf of
natural gas contracts, we entered into basis swaps covering 13.4 Bcf of natural
gas for 2003 that lock in the pricing differential between NYMEX and NWPRM at a
weighted average price differential of $0.67 per Mmbtu and 3.7 Bcf for 2003 that
lock in the pricing differential between NYMEX and CIGRM at a weighted average
price differential of $0.95 per Mmbtu. We have approximately 2.2 million barrels
of oil and 49.3 Bcf of natural gas subject to CPRM contracts for 2004. Of these
contracts, all of the oil and 38.3 Bcf of the natural gas contracts are subject
to weighted average NYMEX floor prices of $23.93 per barrel and $3.83 per Mmbtu
and weighted average NYMEX ceiling prices of $25.47 per barrel and $4.06 per
Mmbtu, respectively, excluding the effect, if any, of the three-way floor price.
The remaining 2004 gas CPRM contract settlements are calculated based on the
NWPRM Index with weighted average swap price of $3.33. In addition, included in
the 38.3 Bcf of natural gas contracts, we entered into basis swaps covering 3.7
Bcf of natural gas for 2004 that lock in the pricing differential between NYMEX
and NWPRM at a weighted average price differential of $0.66 per Mmbtu and 1.8
Bcf of natural gas for 2004 that lock in the pricing differential between NYMEX
and CIGRM at a weighted average differential of $0.81. We have approximately 9.1
Bcf of natural gas subject to CPRM contracts for 2005 with a weighted average
NYMEX swap price of $3.96 per Mmbtu. The contracts discussed above represent our
hedge and non-hedge positions.

     The tables below provide details about the volumes and prices of all open
CPRM commitments, hedge and non-hedge, as of February 19, 2003:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2003      2004      2005
                                                              -------   -------   ------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
HEDGES
GAS
  NYMEX Price Swaps Sold -- receive fixed price (thousand
     Mmbtu)(1)..............................................   31,950    18,300    9,125
     Average price, per Mmbtu...............................  $  4.01   $  3.92   $ 3.96
  NWPRM Price Swaps Sold -- receive fixed price (thousand
     Mmbtu)(2)..............................................       --    10,980       --
     Average price, per Mmbtu...............................       --   $  3.33       --
  CIGRM Price Swaps Sold -- receive fixed price (thousand
     Mmbtu)(3)..............................................    3,060        --       --
     Average price, per Mmbtu...............................  $  3.59        --       --
  NYMEX Collars Sold (thousand Mmbtu)(4)....................   23,383    16,380       --
     Average floor price, per Mmbtu.........................  $  3.61   $  3.70       --
     Average ceiling price, per Mmbtu.......................  $  4.29   $  4.00       --
  NWPRM Collars Sold (thousand Mmbtu)(5)....................    7,300        --       --
     Average floor price, per Mmbtu.........................  $  3.00        --       --
     Average ceiling price, per Mmbtu.......................  $  3.29        --       --
  NYMEX Three-way Collars (thousand Mmbtu)(4),(6)...........    8,030     3,660       --
     Average floor price, per Mmbtu.........................  $  3.39   $  4.00       --
     Average ceiling price, per Mmbtu.......................  $  4.73   $  5.00       --
     Three-way average floor price, per Mmbtu...............  $  2.22   $  3.15       --
  Basis Swaps(7)
     NWPRM (thousand Mmbtu).................................   13,430     3,660       --
       Average differential price, per Mmbtu................  $  0.67   $  0.66       --
     CIGRM (thousand Mmbtu).................................    3,650     1,830       --
       Average differential price, per Mmbtu................  $  0.95   $  0.81       --
</Table>

                                        48
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2003      2004      2005
                                                              -------   -------   ------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
OIL
  NYMEX Price Swaps Sold -- receive fixed price
     (Mbbls)(1).............................................      875     1,098       --
     Average price, per bbl.................................  $ 21.80   $ 24.02       --
  NYMEX Collars Sold (Mbbls)(4).............................    1,980        --       --
     Average floor price, per bbl...........................  $ 24.45        --       --
     Average ceiling price, per bbl.........................  $ 26.45        --       --
  NYMEX Three-way Collars (Mbbls)(4),(6)....................    1,995     1,098       --
     Average floor price, per bbl...........................  $ 23.18   $ 23.83       --
     Average ceiling price, per bbl.........................  $ 26.30   $ 26.92       --
     Three-way average floor price, per bbl.................  $ 18.90   $ 19.00       --
NON-HEDGES
OIL
  NYMEX Price Swaps Sold, receive fixed price (Mbbls)(1)....      300        --       --
     Average price per bbl..................................  $ 18.86        --       --
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) For any particular NYMEX swap sold transaction, the counterparty is required
    to make a payment to Westport in the event that the NYMEX Reference Price
    for any settlement period is less than the swap price for such hedge, and we
    are required to make a payment to the counterparty in the event that the
    NYMEX Reference Price for any settlement period is greater than the swap
    price for such hedge.

(2) For any particular NWPRM swap sold transaction, the counterparty is required
    to make a payment to Westport in the event that the NWPRM Index Price for
    any settlement period is less than the swap price for such hedge, and we are
    required to make a payment to the counterparty in the event that the NWPRM
    Index Price for any settlement period is greater than the swap price for
    such hedge.

(3) For any particular CIGRM swap sold transaction, the counterparty is required
    to make a payment to Westport in the event that the CIGRM Index Price for
    any settlement period is less than the swap price for such hedge, and we are
    required to make a payment to the counterparty in the event that the CIGRM
    Index Price for any settlement period is greater than the swap price for
    such hedge.

(4) For any particular NYMEX collar transaction, the counterparty is required to
    make a payment to Westport if the average NYMEX Reference Price for the
    reference period is below the floor price for such transaction, and we are
    required to make payment to the counterparty if the average NYMEX Reference
    Price is above the ceiling price of such transaction.

(5) For any particular NWPRM collar transaction, the counterparty is required to
    make a payment to Westport if the average NWPRM Index Price for the
    reference period is below the floor price for such transaction, and we are
    required to make payment to the counterparty if the average NWPRM Index
    Price is above the ceiling price of such transaction.

(6) Three way collars are settled as described in footnote (4) above, with the
    following exception: if the NYMEX Reference Price falls below the three-way
    floor price, the average floor price is reduced by the amount the NYMEX
    Reference Price is below the three-way floor price. For example, if the
    NYMEX Reference Price is $18.00 per bbl during the term of the 2002
    three-way collars, then the effective average floor price would be $22.28
    per bbl.

(7) For any particular basis swap, the counterparty is required to make a
    payment to Westport in the event that the difference between the NYMEX
    Reference Price and the applicable published index (NWPRM or CIGRM) for any
    settlement period is greater than the swap differential price for such
    hedge, and Westport is required to make a payment to the counterparty in the
    event that the difference between the NYMEX Reference Price and the
    applicable published index (NMPRM or CIGRM) for any settlement period is
    less than the swap differential price for such hedge.

                                        49
<PAGE>

INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS

     The following table summarizes the interest rate swap contracts we
currently have in place:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                          CURRENT
NOTIONAL AMOUNT  TRANSACTION DATE   EXPIRATION DATE    ESTIMATED RATE
- ---------------  ----------------   ---------------    --------------
<S>              <C>                <C>                <C>
 $100 million    November 2001      November 1, 2011   LIBOR + 2.42%
 $ 50 million     January 2003      November 1, 2011   LIBOR + 3.37%
 $ 40 million     January 2003      November 1, 2011   LIBOR + 3.55%
 $ 50 million    February 2003      November 1, 2011   LIBOR + 3.42%
</Table>

     We entered into the interest rate swap contracts above to hedge the fair
value of a portion of the 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated notes. Because these swaps
meet the conditions to qualify for the "short cut" method of assessing
effectiveness under the provisions of SFAS 133, the change in the fair value of
the debt is assumed to equal the change in the fair value of the interest rate
swap. As such, there is no ineffectiveness assumed to exist between the interest
rate swap and the notes.

     As of December 31, 2002, we recorded a derivative asset of $7.9 million
related to the interest rate swap designated as a fair value hedges, with a
corresponding debt increase.

     In September 2002, we terminated an interest rate swap on the 8 7/8% Senior
Subordinated Notes resulting in the receipt of a $3.7 million fair value gain,
which was added to the outstanding debt balance and will be amortized over the
remaining life of the note.

     For 2002, we recorded other income of $0.2 million related to the change in
fair value of the non-hedge interest rate swap.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     Our financial statements begin on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     There have been no disagreements with our independent accountants on our
accounting or financial reporting that would require our independent accountants
to qualify or disclaim their report on our financial statements, or otherwise
require disclosure in this Form 10-K.

     On April 9, 2002, we dismissed Arthur Andersen LLP, also referred to as
Andersen, as our independent accountants effective as of that date. The decision
to dismiss Andersen was recommended by the Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors and was approved by the Board of Directors on April 9, 2002.

     Andersen's report on the Company's financial statements for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2001 did not contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of
opinion and was not qualified or modified as to uncertainty or audit scope. In
addition, there were no modifications as to accounting principles except that
the audit report of Andersen for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001
contained an explanatory paragraph with respect to the change in the method of
accounting for derivative instruments effective January 1, 2001 as required by
the Financial Accounting Standards Board. During fiscal year ended December 31,
2001 and the period from January 1, 2002 through the date of Andersen's
termination, there were no disagreements between us and Andersen on any matter
of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure, or
auditing scope or procedure, which disagreements, if not resolved to the
satisfaction of Andersen, pursuant to Item 304(a)(1) of Regulation S-K, would
have caused it to make reference to the subject matter of the disagreements in
its report.

     In April of 2002 as required under the regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, or the SEC, we provided Andersen with a copy of our
disclosure in connection with this matter and requested Andersen to furnish us
with a letter addressed to the SEC stating whether it agreed with our statements
and, if not, stating the respects in which it did not agree. Andersen's letter
was filed as Exhibit 16.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC
on April 15, 2002.

                                        50
<PAGE>

     Effective April 9, 2002, we engaged KPMG LLP, or KPMG, as our new
independent accountants for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2002. The
decision to appoint KPMG was recommended by the Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors and was approved by the Board of Directors on April 9, 2002.

     During the two most recent fiscal years and through the date of Andersen's
termination, we did not consult with KPMG regarding any of the matters or events
set forth in Item 304(a)(2) of Regulation S-K.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information called for by Item 10 of this report is incorporated by
reference from our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant
to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information called for by Item 11 of this report is incorporated by
reference from our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant
to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information called for by Item 12 of this report is incorporated by
reference from our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant
to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information called for by Item 13 of this report is incorporated by
reference from our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant
to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act.

ITEM 14.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

     Our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief
Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal financial
officer, respectively) have concluded, based on their evaluation as of a date
within 90 days prior to the date of the filing of this annual report on Form
10-K, that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that
information required to be disclosed by us in the reports filed or submitted by
us under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded,
processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
SEC's rules and forms, and include controls and procedures designed to ensure
that information required to be disclosed by us in such reports is accumulated
and communicated to our management, including our Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

     There were no significant changes in our internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of
such evaluation.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 15.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

          1. Financial Statements: See Index to Consolidated Financial
     Statements and Schedules immediately following the signature page of this
     report.

          2. Financial Statement Schedules: See Index to Consolidated Financial
     Statements and Schedules immediately following the signature page of this
     report.

                                        51
<PAGE>

          3. Exhibits: The following documents are filed as exhibits to this
     report:

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT NO.                             EXHIBIT DESCRIPTION
- -----------                             -------------------
<S>           <C>   <C>
    1.1       --    Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2002, by and
                    among Westport, subsidiary guarantors party thereto and the
                    initial purchasers named therein (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 1 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-4 (Registration No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on
                    January 24, 2003).
    1.2       --    Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2002, by
                    and among Westport, Spindrift Partners, L.P., Spindrift
                    Investors (Bermuda) L.P., Global Natural Resources III and
                    Global Natural Resources III L.P. (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 1 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-3 (Registration No. 333-102281), filed with the SEC on
                    December 31, 2002).
    2.1       --    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 9, 2000, by
                    and among Westport Oil and Gas Company, Inc., Westport
                    Energy Corporation, Equitable Production Company, Equitable
                    Production (Gulf) Company and EPGC Merger Sub Corporation
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
                    Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Westport Resources
                    Corporation, a Delaware corporation (Registration No.
                    333-40422), filed with the SEC on June 29, 2000).
    2.2       --    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 8, 2001,
                    among Belco and Westport Resources Corporation, a Delaware
                    corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to
                    Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-4/A (Registration
                    No. 333-64320), filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).
    2.3       --    Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated November 6, 2002, among
                    Westport and certain affiliates of El Paso Corporation
                    parties thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to
                    Westport's Current Report on Form 8-K/A, filed with the SEC
                    on December 27, 2002).
    3.1       --    Amended Articles of Incorporation of Westport (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Westport's Registration
                    Statement on Form 8-A/A, filed with the SEC on August 31,
                    2001).
    3.2       --    Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of Westport (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Westport's Registration
                    Statement on Form 8-A/A, filed with the SEC on August 31,
                    2001).
    4.1       --    Specimen Certificate for shares of Common Stock of Westport
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A, filed with the SEC on
                    August 31, 2001).
    4.2       --    Specimen Certificate for shares of 6 1/2% Convertible
                    Preferred Stock of Westport (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    8-A/A, filed with the SEC on August 31, 2001).
   *4.3       --    Third Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement dated
                    February 14, 2003 among Westport, ERI, Medicor Foundation,
                    WELLC and certain stockholders named therein.
    4.4       --    Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 17, 2002,
                    among Westport, subsidiary guarantors party thereto and the
                    initial purchasers named therein (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 4.6 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-4 (Registration No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on
                    January 24, 2003).
    4.5       --    Indenture, dated as of November 5, 2001, among Westport,
                    subsidiary guarantors from time to time party thereto and
                    The Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 4.4 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-4 (Registration No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on
                    January 18, 2002).
    4.6       --    First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 31, 2001,
                    among Westport, existing subsidiary guarantors party
                    thereto, new subsidiary guarantors named therein and The
                    Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.5 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                    (Registration No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on January
                    18, 2002).
    4.7       --    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 17,
                    2002, among Westport, existing subsidiary guarantors party
                    thereto, new subsidiary guarantors named therein and The
                    Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.9 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                    (Registration No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on January
                    24, 2003).
</Table>

                                        52
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT NO.                             EXHIBIT DESCRIPTION
- -----------                             -------------------
<S>           <C>   <C>
    4.8       --    Indenture, dated as of September 23, 1997, among Belco, as
                    issuer, and The Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Belco's Registration
                    Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-37125), filed
                    with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
    4.9       --    Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 25, 1998 between
                    Coda Energy, Inc., Diamond Energy Operating Company, Electra
                    Resources, Inc., Belco Operating Corp., Belco Energy L.P.,
                    Gin Lane Company, Fortune Corp., BOG Wyoming LLC and Belco
                    Finance Co. (individually, the Subsidiary Guarantors), a
                    subsidiary of Belco, and The Bank of New York, a New York
                    banking corporation (as Trustee) amending the Indenture
                    filed as Exhibit 4.2 above (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.3 of Belco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                    fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, filed with the SEC on
                    March 26, 1998).
    4.10      --    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 21, 2001,
                    among Westport, certain subsidiary guarantors party thereto
                    and The Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Westport's Quarterly Report on
                    Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001, filed
                    with the SEC on November 14, 2001).
    4.11      --    Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 31, 2001,
                    among Westport, existing subsidiary guarantors party
                    thereto, new subsidiary guarantors named therein and The
                    Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.10 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-4 (Registration No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on
                    January 18, 2002).
    4.12      --    Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 17,
                    2002, among Westport, existing subsidiary guarantors, new
                    subsidiary guarantors and The Bank of New York, as trustee
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.14 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-102705), filed with the SEC on January 24, 2003).
    4.13      --    Certificate of Designations of 6 1/2% Convertible Preferred
                    Stock dated March 5, 1998 (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.1 of Belco's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on
                    March 11, 1998).
    4.14      --    Form of 8 1/4% Note (contained in the Indenture listed as
                    Exhibit 4.4 above) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4
                    to Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                    (Registration No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on January
                    18, 2002).
    4.15      --    Form of 8 7/8% Note (contained in the Indenture listed as
                    Exhibit 4.8 above) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
                    to Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration
                    No. 333-37125), filed with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
    4.16      --    Form of Indenture for Senior Debt Securities (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Belco's Amendment No. 1 to
                    the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No.
                    333-42107), filed with the SEC on December 23, 1997).
    4.17      --    Form of Indenture for Subordinated Debt Securities
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Belco's
                    Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3
                    (Registration No. 333-42107), filed with the SEC on December
                    23, 1997).
   10.1       --    Credit Agreement, dated as of December 17, 2002, among
                    Westport, certain lenders from time to time party thereto,
                    Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation, as syndication
                    agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent and
                    issuing bank, certain documentation agents party thereto,
                    Wachovia Bank, N.A., as senior managing agent, and certain
                    managing agents named therein (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.1 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-4 (Registration No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on
                    January 24, 2003).
   10.2       --    Subsidiary Guarantee, dated as of December 17, 2002, by each
                    subsidiary guarantor party thereto in favor of JPMorgan
                    Chase Bank, as administrative agent for certain lenders and
                    creditors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
                    Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration
                    No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on January 24, 2003).
   10.3       --    Westport Resources Corporation 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as
                    amended on August 21, 2001 (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.4 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-8, filed with the SEC on August 31, 2001).
</Table>

                                        53
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT NO.                             EXHIBIT DESCRIPTION
- -----------                             -------------------
<S>           <C>   <C>
   10.4       --    Westport Resources Corporation Annual Incentive Plan 2000
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Old Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
                    333-40422), filed with the SEC on June 29, 2000).
   10.5       --    Employment Agreement, effective as of April 1, 2002, between
                    Westport and Donald D. Wolf (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.1 to Westport's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                    the quarter ended March 31, 2002, filed with the SEC on May
                    13, 2002).
   10.6       --    Employment Agreement, effective as of April 1, 2002, between
                    Westport and Barth E. Whitham (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.2 to Westport's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                    the quarter ended March 31, 2002, filed with the SEC on May
                    13, 2002).
   10.7       --    Form of Indemnification Agreement between Westport and its
                    officers and directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.1 to Westport's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    quarter ended June 30, 2002, filed with the SEC on August
                    14, 2002).
   10.8       --    Belco Oil & Gas Corp. 1996 Nonemployee Directors' Stock
                    Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
                    Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
                    333-1034), filed with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
   10.9       --    First Amendment to Belco Oil & Gas Corp. 1996 Nonemployee
                    Directors' Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.1 of Belco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                    the quarter ended June 30, 1999, filed with the SEC on
                    August 13, 1999).
   10.10      --    Belco Oil & Gas Corp. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Belco's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
                    333-1034), filed with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
   10.11      --    First Amendment to Belco Oil & Gas Corp. 1996 Stock
                    Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
                    Belco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                    June 30, 2000, filed with the SEC on August 14, 2000).
   10.12      --    Form of Indemnification Agreement between Belco and its
                    officers and directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.6 of Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                    (Registration No. 333-1034), filed with the SEC on February
                    6, 1996).
   10.13      --    Belco Oil & Gas Corp. Retention and Severance Benefit Plan
                    dated June 8, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.18 to Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-4/A
                    (Registration No. 333-64320), filed with the SEC on July 24,
                    2001).
   10.14      --    Amended and Restated Well Participation Letter Agreement
                    dated as of December 31, 1992 between Chesapeake Operating,
                    Inc. and Belco, as amended by (i) Letter Agreement dated
                    April 14, 1983, (ii) Amendment dated December 31, 1993, and
                    (iii) Third Amendment dated December 30, 1994 (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of Belco's Registration
                    Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-1034), filed
                    with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
   10.15      --    Sale Agreement (Independence) dated as of June 10, 1994
                    between Chesapeake Operating, Inc. and Belco (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 10.10 of Belco's Registration
                    Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-1034), filed
                    with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
   10.16      --    Sale and Area of Mutual Interest Agreement (Greater
                    Giddings) dated as of December 30, 1994 between Chesapeake
                    Operating, Inc. and Belco (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.12 of Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                    (Registration No. 333-1034), filed with the SEC on February
                    6, 1996).
   10.17      --    Golden Trend Area of Mutual Interest Agreement dated as of
                    December 17, 1992 between Chesapeake Operating, Inc. and
                    Belco (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of Belco's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
                    333-1034), filed with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
   10.18      --    Form of Participation Agreement for Belco Oil & Gas Corp.
                    1992 Moxa Arch Drilling Program (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 10.15 of Belco's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-1 (Registration No. 333-1034), filed with the SEC on
                    February 6, 1996).
   10.19      --    Form of Offset Participation Agreement to the Moxa Arch 1992
                    Offset Drilling Program (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.16 of Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                    (Registration No. 333-1034), filed with the SEC on February
                    6, 1996).
</Table>

                                        54
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT NO.                             EXHIBIT DESCRIPTION
- -----------                             -------------------
<S>           <C>   <C>
   10.20      --    Form of Participation Agreement for Belco Oil & Gas Corp.
                    1993 Moxa Arch Drilling Program (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 10.17 of Belco's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-1 (Registration No. 333-1034), filed with the SEC on
                    February 6, 1996).
   10.21      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Grant W. Henderson
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
   10.22      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Lon McCain
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
   10.23      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Kenneth D.
                    Anderson (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to
                    Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration
                    No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
   10.24      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Lynn S. Belcher
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
   10.25      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Brian K. Bess
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
   10.26      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Howard L. Boigon
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
   10.27      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Robert R. McBride,
                    Jr. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to
                    Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration
                    No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
  *10.28      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of February 1, 2003, between Westport and Carter Mathies.
   21         --    List of Subsidiaries of Westport (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 21 Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                    (Registration No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on January
                    24, 2003).
  *23.1       --    Consent of Independent Public Accountants, KPMG, LLP.
  *23.2       --    Consent of Ryder Scott Company.
  *23.3       --    Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.
  *24.1       --    Power of Attorney (included on the signature page of this
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K).
  *99.1       --    Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted
                    Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
                    of Chief Executive Officer of Westport.
  *99.2       --    Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted
                    Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
                    of Chief Financial Officer of Westport.
</Table>

- ---------------

* Filed herewith.

     Certain of the exhibits to this filing contain schedules which have been
omitted in accordance with applicable regulations. Westport undertakes to
furnish supplementally a copy of any omitted schedule to the Securities and
Exchange Commission upon request.

                                        55
<PAGE>

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.

     - Current Report on Form 8-K (Item 5) filed on November 7, 2002 by
       Westport;

     - Current Report on Form 8-K (Item 9) filed on December 2, 2002 by
       Westport;

     - Current Report on Form 8-K (Item 9) filed on December 2, 2002 by
       Westport;

     - Current Report on Form 8-K (Item 5) filed on December 2, 2002 by
       Westport;

     - Current Report on Form 8-K (Items 5 and 7) filed on December 2, 2002 by
       Westport, as amended by the Current Report on Form 8-K/A (Items 5 and 7)
       as filed with the SEC on December 12, 2002, as further amended by the
       Current Report on Form 8-K/A (Items 2 and 7) as filed with the SEC on
       December 27, 2002 and by the Current Report on Form 8-K/A (Items 5 and 7)
       as filed with the SEC on February 26, 2003; and

     - Current Report on Form 8-K (Item 5) filed on December 12, 2002 by
       Westport.

                                        56
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 7, 2003

                                          WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

                                          By:
                                                   /s/ DONALD D. WOLF
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Name: Donald D. Wolf
                                              Title: Chairman of the Board
                                                and Chief Executive Officer

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

     The undersigned directors and officers of Westport Resources Corporation
hereby constitute and appoint Donald D. Wolf, Barth E. Whitham and Lon McCain,
and each of them, with the power to act without the other and with full power of
substitution and resubstitution, our true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents with full power to execute in our name and behalf in the capacities
indicated below any and all amendments to this report and to file the same, with
all exhibits and other documents relating thereto and hereby ratify and confirm
all that such attorneys-in-fact, or either of them, or their substitutes, may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the
following persons in the capacities indicated on March 7, 2003:

<Table>
<Caption>
                     SIGNATURE                                          TITLE
                     ---------                                          -----
<S>      <C>                                          <C>

                /s/ DONALD D. WOLF                      Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive
- ---------------------------------------------------   Officer (Principal Executive Officer) and
                  Donald D. Wolf                                       Director


                  /s/ LON MCCAIN                       Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
- ---------------------------------------------------       and Treasurer (Principal Financial
                    Lon McCain                                         Officer)


              /s/ KENNETH D. ANDERSON                  Vice President -- Accounting (Principal
- ---------------------------------------------------              Accounting Officer)
                Kenneth D. Anderson


               /s/ ROBERT A. BELFER                                    Director
- ---------------------------------------------------
                 Robert A. Belfer


              /s/ LAURENCE D. BELFER                                   Director
- ---------------------------------------------------
                Laurence D. Belfer


                 /s/ JAMES M. FUNK                                     Director
- ---------------------------------------------------
                   James M. Funk


                /s/ MURRY S. GERBER                                    Director
- ---------------------------------------------------
                  Murry S. Gerber
</Table>

                                        57
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
                     SIGNATURE                                          TITLE
                     ---------                                          -----

<S>      <C>                                          <C>

                /s/ ROBERT A. HAAS                                     Director
- ---------------------------------------------------
                  Robert A. Haas


                /s/ PETER R. HEARL                                     Director
- ---------------------------------------------------
                  Peter R. Hearl


                /s/ DAVID L. PORGES                                    Director
- ---------------------------------------------------
                  David L. Porges


                /s/ MICHAEL RUSSELL                                    Director
- ---------------------------------------------------
                  Michael Russell


                  /s/ RANDY STEIN                                      Director
- ---------------------------------------------------
                    Randy Stein


              /s/ WILLIAM F. WALLACE                                   Director
- ---------------------------------------------------
                William F. Wallace
</Table>

                                        58
<PAGE>

                                 CERTIFICATION

I, Donald D. Wolf, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Westport
Resources Corporation, certify that:

     1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Westport Resources
Corporation;

     2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual
report;

     3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

     4. The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

          a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
     material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
     subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
     particularly during the period in which this annual report is being
     prepared;

          b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
     and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this
     annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

          c) presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
     effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
     evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

     5. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

          a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
     controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
     process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
     registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

          b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
     other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
     controls; and

     6. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal controls
or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent
to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with
regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

                                          /s/ DONALD D. WOLF
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Donald D. Wolf
                                          Chairman of the Board and Chief
                                          Executive Officer

Date: March 7, 2003

                                        59
<PAGE>

                                 CERTIFICATION

I, Lon McCain, Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Westport
Resources Corporation, certify that:

     1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Westport Resources
Corporation;

     2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual
report;

     3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

     4. The registrant's other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

          a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
     material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
     subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
     particularly during the period in which this annual report is being
     prepared;

          b) evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls
     and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this
     annual report (the "Evaluation Date"); and

          c) presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
     effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
     evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

     5. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant's auditors and the audit
committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

          a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
     controls which could adversely affect the registrant's ability to record,
     process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
     registrant's auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

          b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
     other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal
     controls; and

     6. The registrant's other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal controls
or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent
to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective actions with
regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

                                          /s/ LON MCCAIN
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Lon McCain
                                          Vice President, Chief Financial
                                          Officer and Treasurer

Date: March 7, 2003

                                        60
<PAGE>

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

<Table>
<S>                                                            <C>
Reports of Independent Public Accountants...................   F-2
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002 and
  2001......................................................   F-4
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
  December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000..........................   F-5
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the
  years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000..............   F-6
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
  December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000..........................   F-7
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................   F-8
</Table>

                                       F-1
<PAGE>

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Board of Directors
Westport Resources Corporation:

     We have audited the 2002 consolidated financial statements of Westport
Resources Corporation (a Nevada corporation) and subsidiaries as listed in the
accompanying index. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. The 2001
and 2000 consolidated financial statements of Westport Resources Corporation and
subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying index were audited by other auditors
who have ceased operations. Those auditors' report, dated March 1, 2002, on
those consolidated financial statements was unqualified and included an
explanatory paragraph that described the change in the Company's method of
accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities discussed in Notes
1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements.

     We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the 2002 consolidated financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Westport Resources Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2002, and the
results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.

     As discussed in Notes 1 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company changed its method of accounting for derivative instruments and hedging
activities in 2001.

                                          /s/  KPMG LLP

Denver, Colorado
February 21, 2003

                                       F-2
<PAGE>

                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

     THE FOLLOWING REPORT IS A COPY OF THE PREVIOUSLY ISSUED REPORT FROM ARTHUR
ANDERSEN LLP (ANDERSEN). ANDERSEN DID NOT PERFORM ANY PROCEDURES IN CONNECTION
WITH THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. ACCORDINGLY, THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN
REISSUED BY ANDERSEN.

To Westport Resources Corporation:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Westport
Resources Corporation (a Nevada corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31,
2001 and 2000, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2001. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Westport Resources
Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 2001, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States.

     As explained in Notes 1 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements, on
January 1, 2001, the Company changed its method of accounting for derivative
instruments and hedging activities.

                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Denver, Colorado
March 1, 2002

                                       F-3
<PAGE>

                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                   DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -----------------------
                                                                 2002         2001
                                                              ----------   ----------
                                                                  (IN THOUSANDS,
                                                                EXCEPT SHARE DATA)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
                                       ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................................  $   42,761   $   27,584
  Accounts receivable, net..................................      73,549       61,808
  Derivative assets.........................................      14,861        7,832
  Prepaid expenses and other assets.........................      13,358        5,474
                                                              ----------   ----------
         Total current assets...............................     144,529      102,698
                                                              ----------   ----------
Property and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and natural gas properties, successful efforts method:
    Proved properties.......................................   2,177,656    1,446,331
    Unproved properties.....................................     104,430      105,539
                                                              ----------   ----------
                                                               2,282,086    1,551,870
  Less accumulated depletion, depreciation and
    amortization............................................    (481,396)    (280,737)
                                                              ----------   ----------
         Net oil and gas properties.........................   1,800,690    1,271,133
                                                              ----------   ----------
  Building and other office furniture and equipment.........       9,686        8,099
  Less accumulated depreciation.............................      (3,933)      (3,028)
                                                              ----------   ----------
         Net building and other office furniture and
           equipment........................................       5,753        5,071
                                                              ----------   ----------
Other assets:
  Long-term derivative assets...............................      14,824          612
  Goodwill..................................................     246,712      214,844
  Other assets..............................................      21,033        9,858
                                                              ----------   ----------
         Total other assets.................................     282,569      225,314
                                                              ----------   ----------
         Total assets.......................................  $2,233,541   $1,604,216
                                                              ==========   ==========
                        LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable..........................................  $   51,158   $   47,901
  Accrued expenses..........................................      39,209       30,294
  Ad valorem taxes payable..................................       8,988        6,930
  Derivative liabilities....................................      56,156        3,289
  Income taxes payable......................................          86          550
  Other current liabilities.................................          --          369
                                                              ----------   ----------
         Total current liabilities..........................     155,597       89,333
Long-term debt..............................................     799,358      429,224
Deferred income taxes.......................................     124,530      158,005
Long-term derivative liabilities............................      21,305        5,956
Other liabilities...........................................         745        1,402
                                                              ----------   ----------
         Total liabilities..................................   1,101,535      683,920
                                                              ----------   ----------
Commitments and contingencies (Note 12)
Stockholders' equity:
  6 1/2% Convertible preferred stock, $.01 par value;
    10,000,000 shares authorized; 2,930,000 issued and
    outstanding at December 31, 2002 and 2001,
    respectively............................................          29           29
  Common stock, $.01 par value; 70,000,000 shares
    authorized; 66,823,830 and 52,092,691 shares issued and
    outstanding at December 31, 2002 and 2001,
    respectively............................................         668          521
  Additional paid-in capital................................   1,150,345      877,960
  Treasury stock -- at cost; 33,617 and 30,000 shares at
    December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively................        (469)        (408)
  Retained earnings.........................................           2       33,330
  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
    Deferred hedge loss, net................................     (18,408)       8,864
    Cumulative translation adjustment.......................        (161)          --
                                                              ----------   ----------
         Total stockholders' equity.........................   1,132,006      920,296
                                                              ----------   ----------
         Total liabilities and stockholders' equity.........  $2,233,541   $1,604,216
                                                              ==========   ==========
</Table>

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-4
<PAGE>

                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------------------
                                                                2002        2001        2000
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                                       (IN THOUSANDS,
                                                                  EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>         <C>
Operating revenues:
  Oil and natural gas sales.................................  $429,260    $317,278    $244,669
  Hedge settlements.........................................    (1,276)      2,091     (24,627)
  Commodity price risk management activities:
    Non-hedge settlements...................................       822      15,300          --
    Non-hedge change in fair value of derivatives...........   (26,723)     14,323        (739)
  Gain (loss) on sale of operating assets, net..............    (1,685)       (132)      3,130
                                                              --------    --------    --------
      Net revenues..........................................   400,398     348,860     222,433
                                                              --------    --------    --------
Operating costs and expenses:
  Lease operating expenses..................................    89,328      55,315      34,397
  Production taxes..........................................    23,954      13,407      10,631
  Transportation costs......................................     8,791       5,157       3,034
  Exploration...............................................    32,390      31,313      12,790
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization..................   203,093     124,059      64,856
  Impairment of proved properties...........................    19,700       9,423       2,911
  Impairment of unproved properties.........................     9,961       6,974       5,124
  Stock compensation expense, net...........................     4,608         719       5,539
  General and administrative................................    23,629      17,678       7,542
                                                              --------    --------    --------
      Total operating expenses..............................   415,454     264,045     146,824
                                                              --------    --------    --------
      Operating income (loss)...............................   (15,056)     84,815      75,609
Other income (expense):
  Interest expense..........................................   (34,836)    (13,196)     (9,731)
  Interest income...........................................       546       1,668       1,230
  Change in interest rate swap fair value...................       226       4,960          --
  Other.....................................................     1,002         211         152
                                                              --------    --------    --------
Income (loss) before income taxes...........................   (48,118)     78,458      67,260
                                                              --------    --------    --------
Benefit (provision) for income taxes:
  Current...................................................     2,094      (2,006)       (675)
  Deferred..................................................    17,458     (26,631)    (23,049)
                                                              --------    --------    --------
      Total benefit (provision) for income taxes............    19,552     (28,637)    (23,724)
                                                              --------    --------    --------
Net income (loss)...........................................   (28,566)     49,821      43,536
Preferred stock dividends...................................     4,762       1,587          --
                                                              --------    --------    --------
Net income (loss) available to common stockholders..........  $(33,328)   $ 48,234    $ 43,536
                                                              ========    ========    ========
Weighted average number of common shares outstanding:
      Basic.................................................    53,007      43,408      28,296
                                                              ========    ========    ========
      Diluted...............................................    53,007      44,168      28,645
                                                              ========    ========    ========
Net income (loss) per common share:
      Basic.................................................  $  (0.63)   $   1.11    $   1.54
                                                              ========    ========    ========
      Diluted...............................................  $  (0.63)   $   1.09    $   1.52
                                                              ========    ========    ========
</Table>

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-5
<PAGE>

                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                         TREASURY
                                     PREFERRED STOCK    COMMON STOCK     ADDITIONAL    COMMON STOCK     RETAINED EARNINGS
                                     ---------------   ---------------    PAID-IN     ---------------     (ACCUMULATED
                                     SHARES   AMOUNT   SHARES   AMOUNT    CAPITAL     SHARES   AMOUNT       DEFICIT)
                                     ------   ------   ------   ------   ----------   ------   ------   -----------------
                                                                        (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                  <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>          <C>      <C>      <C>
Balance at December 31, 1999.......     --     $--     15,631    $156    $  198,295     --     $  --        $(58,440)
  Stock issuance for EPGC merger...     --      --     15,236     152       165,204     --        --              --
  Merger costs paid by principal
    stockholder....................     --      --         --      --         2,895     --        --              --
  Common stock issuance from
    initial public offering........     --      --      7,535      75       103,836     --        --              --
  Option plan compensation.........     --      --         --      --         2,156     --        --              --
  Stock options exercised..........     --      --         13       1           140     --        --              --
  Stock issuance to directors......     --      --          4      --            50     --        --              --
  Net income.......................     --      --         --      --            --     --        --          43,536
                                     -----     ---     ------    ----    ----------    ---     -----        --------
Balance at December 31, 2000.......     --      --     38,419     384       472,576     --        --         (14,904)
  Stock issuance for Belco
    merger.........................  2,930      29     13,587     136       403,959     --        --              --
  Repurchase of common stock.......     --      --         --      --            --    (30)     (408)             --
  Option plan compensation.........     --      --         --      --           367     --        --              --
  Stock options exercised..........     --      --         51       1           706     --        --              --
  Preferred stock dividends paid...     --      --         --      --            --     --        --          (1,587)
  Restricted stock issued..........     --      --         36      --           352     --        --              --
Comprehensive income:
    Net income.....................     --      --         --      --            --     --        --          49,821
    Cumulative effect of change in
      accounting principle.........
    Change in fair value of
      derivative hedging
      instruments..................
    Hedge settlements reclassified
      to income....................
      Total other comprehensive
        income.....................
                                     -----     ---     ------    ----    ----------    ---     -----        --------
Balance at December 31, 2001.......  2,930      29     52,093     521       877,960    (30)     (408)         33,330
  Proceeds from issuance of common
    stock..........................     --      --     14,625     146       266,290     --        --              --
  Repurchase of common stock.......     --      --         --      --            --     (4)      (61)             --
  Option plan compensation.........     --      --         --      --         4,333     --        --              --
  Stock options exercised..........     --      --        105       1         1,467     --        --              --
  Stock issuance to directors......     --      --         --      --            20     --        --              --
  Preferred stock dividends paid...     --      --         --      --            --     --        --          (4,762)
  Restricted stock issued..........     --      --         --      --           275     --        --              --
Comprehensive income:
    Net loss.......................     --      --         --      --            --     --        --         (28,566)
    Change in fair value of
      derivative hedging
      instruments..................
    Hedge settlements reclassified
      to income....................
    Currency translation
      adjustment...................
      Total other comprehensive
        income.....................
                                     -----     ---     ------    ----    ----------    ---     -----        --------
Balance at December 31, 2002.......  2,930     $29     66,823    $668    $1,150,345    (34)    $(469)       $      2
                                     =====     ===     ======    ====    ==========    ===     =====        ========

<Caption>
                                      ACCUMULATED
                                         OTHER
                                     COMPREHENSIVE   STOCKHOLDERS'
                                     INCOME (LOSS)   EQUITY TOTAL
                                     -------------   -------------
                                            (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                  <C>             <C>
Balance at December 31, 1999.......    $     --       $  140,011
  Stock issuance for EPGC merger...          --          165,356
  Merger costs paid by principal
    stockholder....................          --            2,895
  Common stock issuance from
    initial public offering........          --          103,911
  Option plan compensation.........          --            2,156
  Stock options exercised..........          --              141
  Stock issuance to directors......          --               50
  Net income.......................          --           43,536
                                       --------       ----------
Balance at December 31, 2000.......          --          458,056
  Stock issuance for Belco
    merger.........................          --          404,124
  Repurchase of common stock.......          --             (408)
  Option plan compensation.........          --              367
  Stock options exercised..........          --              707
  Preferred stock dividends paid...          --           (1,587)
  Restricted stock issued..........          --              352
Comprehensive income:
    Net income.....................          --           49,821
    Cumulative effect of change in
      accounting principle.........      (3,100)          (3,100)
    Change in fair value of
      derivative hedging
      instruments..................      13,292           13,292
    Hedge settlements reclassified
      to income....................      (1,328)          (1,328)
                                                      ----------
      Total other comprehensive
        income.....................                       58,685
                                       --------       ----------
Balance at December 31, 2001.......       8,864          920,296
  Proceeds from issuance of common
    stock..........................          --          266,436
  Repurchase of common stock.......          --              (61)
  Option plan compensation.........          --            4,333
  Stock options exercised..........          --            1,468
  Stock issuance to directors......          --               20
  Preferred stock dividends paid...          --           (4,762)
  Restricted stock issued..........          --              275
Comprehensive income:
    Net loss.......................          --          (28,566)
    Change in fair value of
      derivative hedging
      instruments..................     (27,981)         (27,981)
    Hedge settlements reclassified
      to income....................         709              709
    Currency translation
      adjustment...................        (161)            (161)
                                                      ----------
      Total other comprehensive
        income.....................                      (55,999)
                                       --------       ----------
Balance at December 31, 2002.......    $(18,569)      $1,132,006
                                       ========       ==========
</Table>

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       F-6
<PAGE>

                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------------------
                                                                2002        2001        2000
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
                                                                       (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>         <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income (loss).........................................  $ (28,566)  $  49,821   $  43,536
  Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash
    provided by operating activities:
    Depletion, depreciation and amortization................    203,093     124,059      64,856
    Exploratory dry hole costs..............................     19,546      19,273       6,020
    Impairment of proved properties.........................     19,700       9,423       2,911
    Impairment of unproved properties.......................      9,961       6,974       5,124
    Deferred income taxes...................................    (17,458)     26,631      23,049
    Stock compensation expense..............................      4,608         719       2,156
    Change in derivative fair value.........................     27,475     (19,283)         --
    Amortization of financing fees..........................      2,438         435          --
    Loss (gain) on sale of assets...........................      1,685         132      (3,130)
    Other...................................................       (274)         --          50
    Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of
       acquisitions:
       Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable...........     (2,909)     10,126     (28,678)
       Decrease in net derivative liabilities...............    (10,388)    (18,285)         --
       Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses and other
         assets.............................................     (5,031)      1,051      (1,139)
       Increase (decrease) in accounts payable..............     (6,573)     (6,240)     17,930
       Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses..............      8,105      (8,474)      9,622
       Increase (decrease) in ad valorem taxes payable......       (851)     (1,130)      2,183
       Increase (decrease) in income taxes payable..........       (477)        301         375
       Decrease in other liabilities........................       (887)       (260)     (1,436)
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
Net cash provided by operating activities...................    223,197     195,273     143,429
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Additions to property and equipment.......................   (147,612)   (187,925)   (102,229)
  Proceeds from sales of assets.............................     13,311       5,536       6,259
  Merger with EPGC..........................................         --          --     (42,403)
  Other acquisitions........................................   (679,890)     (6,319)     (1,454)
  Other.....................................................         28          22        (342)
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
Net cash used in investing activities.......................   (814,163)   (188,686)   (140,169)
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from issuance of common stock, net...............    267,787         576     104,052
  Repurchase of common stock................................        (61)       (408)         --
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt..................    639,000     590,000      50,000
  Repayments of long-term debt..............................   (285,000)   (577,585)   (156,633)
  Preferred stock dividends.................................     (4,762)     (1,587)         --
  Gain on interest rate swap cancellation...................      3,705          --          --
  Financing fees............................................    (14,273)    (10,153)         --
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities.........    606,396         843      (2,581)
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents...................     15,430       7,430         679
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash
  equivalents...............................................       (253)         --          --
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year................     27,584      20,154      19,475
                                                              ---------   ---------   ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year......................  $  42,761   $  27,584   $  20,154
                                                              =========   =========   =========
Supplemental cash flow information:
  Cash paid for interest....................................  $  37,426   $  14,065   $  10,649
                                                              =========   =========   =========
  Cash paid for income taxes................................  $      44   $   1,700   $     300
                                                              =========   =========   =========
Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing
  activities:
  Common stock and stock options issued in connection with
    the Belco and EPGC mergers, respectively................  $      --   $ 349,919   $ 165,356
                                                              =========   =========   =========
  Liabilities and preferred stock assumed in connection with
    the
    Belco and EPGC mergers, respectively....................  $      --   $ 662,089   $   1,850
                                                              =========   =========   =========
    EPGC merger expenses paid by parent.....................  $      --   $      --   $   2,895
                                                              =========   =========   =========
</Table>

  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
                                       F-7
<PAGE>

                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     On August 21, 2001, the stockholders of each of Westport Resources
Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Old Westport"), and Belco Oil & Gas Corp.,
a Nevada corporation ("Belco"), approved the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated
as of June 8, 2001 (the "Merger Agreement") between Belco and Old Westport.
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Old Westport was merged with and into Belco
(the "Merger"), with Belco surviving as the legal entity and changing its name
to Westport Resources Corporation (the "Company" or "Westport"). The merger of
Old Westport into Belco was accounted for as a purchase transaction for
financial accounting purposes. Because former Old Westport stockholders owned a
majority of the outstanding Westport common stock as a result of the Merger, the
Merger was accounted for as a reverse acquisition in which Old Westport is the
purchaser of Belco. Business activities of the Company include the exploration
for and production of oil and natural gas primarily in the Gulf of Mexico, the
Rocky Mountains, the Gulf Coast and the West Texas/Mid Continent area.

     A summary of the Company's significant accounting policies follows:

  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

     For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the Company considers all
highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity of three months or
less to be cash equivalents. The total carrying amount of cash and cash
equivalents approximates the fair value of such instruments.

  REVENUE RECOGNITION

     The Company follows the sales method of accounting for oil and natural gas
revenues. Under this method, revenues are recognized based on actual volumes of
oil and natural gas sold to purchasers.

  TRANSPORTATION COSTS

     In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-10, "Accounting
for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs," the Company excludes the effects of
direct transportation costs from oil and gas revenues and records such
transportation costs as a separate line in the statement of operations.

  NATURAL GAS BALANCING

     The Company uses the sales method of accounting for natural gas imbalances.
Under this method, revenue is recognized based on cash received rather than the
Company's proportionate share of natural gas produced. Natural gas imbalances at
December 31, 2002 and 2001 were not significant.

  OIL AND NATURAL GAS PROPERTIES

     The Company accounts for its oil and natural gas operations using the
successful efforts method of accounting. Under this method, all costs associated
with property acquisition, successful exploratory wells and all development
wells are capitalized. Items charged to expense generally include geological and
geophysical costs, costs of unsuccessful exploratory wells and oil and natural
gas production costs. All of the Company's oil and natural gas properties are
located within the continental United States, the Gulf of Mexico and Canada.

     The Company follows the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets." SFAS No. 144 supersedes SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of."
SFAS No. 144 establishes a single accounting model for long-lived assets to be
disposed of by sale and requires that those long-lived assets be measured at the
lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell, whether reported in
continuing operations or in discontinued operations. In applying this

                                       F-8
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

statement, the Company compares the expected undiscounted future net revenues on
a field-by-field basis with the related net capitalized costs at the end of each
period. When the net capitalized costs exceed the undiscounted future net
revenues, the cost of the property is written down to "fair value," which is
determined using the discounted future net revenues on a field-by-field basis.
In 2002, 2001 and 2000, the Company recorded proved property impairments of
$19.7 million, $9.4 million and $2.9 million, respectively. Gains and losses
resulting from the disposition of proved properties are included in operations.

     Capitalized costs of proved properties are depleted on a field-by-field
basis using the units-of-production method based upon proved oil and natural gas
reserves. The amortizable base of the Company's offshore properties includes
estimated dismantlement, restoration and abandonment costs, net of estimated
salvage values. The Company will adopt SFAS 143 "Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations" on January 1, 2003 for all properties. SFAS 143 requires that an
asset retirement cost be capitalized as part of the cost of the asset. Unproved
properties are assessed periodically on a project-by-project basis to determine
whether an impairment has occurred. Management's assessment of the results of
exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or
expiration of all or a portion of such projects impact the amount and timing of
impairment provisions. In 2002, 2001 and 2000, the Company recorded unproved
property impairments of $10.0 million, $7.0 million and $5.1 million,
respectively. Sales proceeds from unproved oil and natural gas properties are
credited to related costs of the prospect sold until all such costs are
recovered and then to net gain or loss on sales of unproved oil and natural gas
properties.

  PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in the consolidation.

  EARNINGS (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE

     The Company follows the provisions of SFAS No. 128, "Earnings Per Share."
Basic earnings per share is computed based on the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed based on the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding adjusted for the
incremental shares attributed to outstanding options and warrants to purchase
common stock. All options to purchase common shares were excluded from the
computation of diluted earnings per share in 2002 because they were antidilutive
as a result of the Company's net loss in that year. Dilutive securities of the
Company consist entirely of outstanding options to purchase the Company's common
stock. The Company's 6 1/2% convertible preferred stock was antidilutive for the
period it has been outstanding.

  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

     For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, the costs of exploratory dry
holes are included in cash flows from investing activities.

  INCOME TAXES

     The Company computes income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109,
"Accounting for Income Taxes." SFAS No. 109 requires an asset and liability
approach which results in the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and assets
for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts and the tax basis of those assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 109
also requires the recording of a valuation allowance if it is more likely than
not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.

                                       F-9
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  BUILDING, OFFICE FURNITURE AND EQUIPMENT AND LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS

     Building, office furniture and equipment are stated at cost and are
depreciated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives of
three to 20 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the
related lease. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Gains
or losses on dispositions of office furniture and equipment are included in
operations.

  DERIVATIVE ACTIVITY

     The Company periodically enters into commodity derivative contracts and
fixed-price physical contracts to manage its exposure to oil and natural gas
price volatility. The Company primarily utilizes future contracts, swaps or
options which are generally placed with major financial institutions or with
counterparties of high credit quality that the Company believes are minimal
credit risks. The oil and natural gas reference prices of these commodity
derivatives contracts are based upon crude oil and natural gas futures which
have a high degree of historical correlation with actual prices received by the
Company.

     On January 1, 2001, the Company adopted SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." Under SFAS No. 133 all
derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes
in the derivative's fair value are recognized currently in earnings unless
specific hedge accounting criteria are met. For qualifying cash flow hedges, the
gain or loss on the derivative is deferred in accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) to the extent the hedge is effective. For qualifying fair value
hedges, the gain or loss on the derivative is offset by related results of the
hedged item in the income statement. Gains and losses on hedging instruments
included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are reclassified to
oil and natural gas sales revenue in the period that the related production is
delivered. Derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting
treatment are recorded as derivative assets and liabilities at fair value in the
consolidated balance sheet, and the associated unrealized gains and losses are
recorded as current expense or income in the consolidated statement of
operations. While such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting,
management believes these contracts can be utilized as an effective component of
CPRM activities to help reduce volatility of expected revenues. See Notes 3 and
7.

  STOCK COMPENSATION EXPENSE

     Stock compensation expense consists of noncash charges resulting from the
application of the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 44 to certain stock
options granted to employees and issuance of restricted stock to certain
employees. Under Interpretation No. 44 the Company is required to measure
compensation cost on stock options that are considered to be variable awards
until the date of exercise, forfeiture or expiration of such options.
Compensation cost is measured for the amount of any increases in the Company
stock price and recognized over the remaining vesting period of the options. Any
decrease in the Company stock price will be recognized as a decrease in
compensation cost limited to the amount of compensation cost previously
recognized as a result of an increase in the Company stock price.

  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying amounts of the Company's cash, accounts receivable, accounts
payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value due to the short-term
maturities of these assets and liabilities. The carrying amount of the Company's
long-term debt approximates fair value based on the variable borrowing rate of
the credit facility and the interest rate swaps in place that hedge the fair
value of a portion of the senior subordinated notes.

                                       F-10
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     The Company's consolidated financial statements are based on a number of
significant estimates including oil and natural gas reserve quantities which are
the basis for the calculation of depletion and impairment of oil and natural gas
properties

  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     The Company follows the provisions of SFAS No. 130, "Reporting
Comprehensive Income," which establishes standards for reporting and display of
comprehensive income and its components in a full set of general-purpose
financial statements. In addition to net income, comprehensive income includes
all changes in equity during a period, except those resulting from investments
and distributions to owners.

  RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS
No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which addresses, among other
things, the financial accounting and reporting for goodwill subsequent to an
acquisition. The new standard eliminates the requirement to amortize acquired
goodwill; instead, such goodwill is to be reviewed at least annually for
impairment. We recorded goodwill in connection with the Merger for our cost or
investment in excess of the fair value of the net acquired assets as of August
21, 2001. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142 no goodwill
amortization has been recorded. We adopted SFAS No. 142 effective January 1,
2002.

     In accordance with SFAS No. 142, we were required to perform an initial
impairment review of our goodwill as of January 1, 2002 and will perform an
annual impairment review hereafter. We completed the initial step of the
transitional goodwill impairment test during the second quarter of fiscal 2002
in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142, which requires that this step
be completed within six months from the date of adoption. This step of the
goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its
carrying amount, including goodwill. Based on results of these comparisons,
goodwill in each of our reporting units had not been impaired as of June 30,
2002. We performed our annual impairment review as of December 31, 2002 and
based on this goodwill in each of our reporting units had not been impaired.

     During the second quarter ended June 30, 2002, the Company completed the
final evaluation of the purchase price allocation in connection with the Merger.
Reclassifications were made from unproved and proved oil and natural gas
properties totaling $19.7 and $10.3 million, respectively, to goodwill. In
addition, goodwill was increased by $1.9 million as a result of additional
merger costs and other miscellaneous adjustments.

     The total adjustment to unproved properties was comprised of two
components. The first component resulted from the determination that, as of the
date of the Merger, certain acreage positions had expired. The second component
resulted from a difference in the way acreage was allocated to proved
properties. Prior to the Merger, Belco allocated only net well acreage to a
specific spacing tract, while Westport had a policy of allocating acreage to
proved properties based on an assumption that a producing well holds all the
acreage on a lease. The application of Westport's policy to Belco properties
resulted in a reduced acreage position.

     The adjustment to proved properties was made as a result of the final
evaluation by an outside consulting firm of the fair value of certain non-core
properties in the lower 15% of the value of Belco properties acquired

                                       F-11
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

in the Merger. The final evaluation determined that the value of these
properties included unsupportable estimates of certain undeveloped reserves. The
following table summarizes the goodwill allocation to the reporting units as of
June 30, 2002. There have been no changes to the goodwill allocation since June
30, 2002.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                        NORTHERN   SOUTHERN
                                                        DIVISION   DIVISION
                                                        SEGMENT    SEGMENT     TOTAL
                                                        --------   --------   --------
                                                                (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                     <C>        <C>        <C>
Goodwill Acquired (August 21, 2001)...................  $33,416    $181,428   $214,844
Adjustments confirmed by information received
  subsequent to the Merger that existed at the date of
  the Merger..........................................       --      31,868     31,868
                                                        -------    --------   --------
Balance as of December 31, 2002.......................  $33,416    $213,296   $246,712
                                                        =======    ========   ========
</Table>

     In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, "Accounting for Asset
Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143 requires entities to record the fair value
of liabilities for retirement obligations of acquired assets. SFAS No. 143 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. The Company adopted
SFAS No. 143 on January 1, 2003. Based on current estimates, the Company expects
to record asset retirement obligations of approximately $59 million (using a
7.6% discount rate) and a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle on
prior years in the range of $2 million to $5 million net of tax effects related
to the depreciation and accretion expense that would have been reported had the
fair value of the asset retirement obligation, and corresponding increase in the
carrying amount of the related long-lived asset, been recorded when incurred.

     In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets." SFAS No. 144 supersedes SFAS No.
121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to Be Disposed Of." SFAS No. 144 establishes a single accounting model
for long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale and requires that those
long-lived assets be measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less
cost to sell, whether reported in continuing operations or in discontinued
operations. SFAS No. 144 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2001. The Company adopted SFAS No. 144 on January 1, 2002. In 2002 the
Company impaired $12.2 million in the Northern Division, $6.1 in the Southern
Division and $1.4 million in the Gulf of Mexico Division for a total impairment
of $19.7 million of its long-lived assets.

     In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements
No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13 and Technical Corrections."
Prior to the adoption of the provisions of SFAS No. 145, generally accepted
accounting principles ("GAAP") required gains or losses on the early
extinguishment of debt be classified in a company's periodic consolidated
statements of operations as extraordinary gains or losses, net of associated
income taxes, below the determination of income or loss from continuing
operations. SFAS No. 145 changes GAAP to require, except in the case of events
or transactions of a highly unusual and infrequent nature, gains or losses from
the early extinguishment of debt be classified as components of a company's
income or loss from continuing operations. The Company will adopt the provisions
of SFAS No. 145 on January 1, 2003. The adoption of the provisions of SFAS No.
145 is not expected to affect the Company's financial position or results of
operations.

     In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs
Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities." SFAS No. 146 requires that a
liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized
and measured initially at fair value only when the liability is incurred. SFAS
No. 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after
December 31, 2002. The adoption of SFAS No. 146 is not expected to have an
effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

     In December, 2002 the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-based
Compensation-Transition and Disclosure." SFAS 148 amend FASB Statement No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based

                                       F-12
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Compensation" to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary
change to the fair-value based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation. In addition, this Statement amends the disclosure requirements of
Statement 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim
financial statements about the method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation and the effect of the method used on the reported results. The
provisions of SFAS 148 has no material impact on us, as we do not plan to adopt
the fair-value method of accounting for stock options at the current time. We
have included the required disclosures in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

     In November, 2002 the FASB issued Financial Interpretation No. 45,
"Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others -- an interpretation of FASB
Statements No. 5, 57, and 107 and rescission of FASB Interpretation No. 34" (FIN
45). FIN 45 elaborates on the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its
interim and annual financial statements about its obligations under certain
guarantees that it has issued. It also clarifies that a guarantor is required to
recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of
the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee. The initial recognition and
initial measurement provisions of FIN 45 are applicable on a prospective basis
to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, irrespective of the
guarantor's fiscal year-end. The disclosure requirements are effective for
financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15,
2002. The adoption of FIN 45 is not expected to have an effect on the Company's
financial position or results of operations.

     In January 2003, the FASB issued Financial Interpretation No. 46,
"Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities -- an interpretation of ARB No. 51"
(FIN 46). FIN 46 is an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin 51,
"Consolidated Financial Statements", and addresses consolidation by business
enterprises of variable interest entities (VIE's). The primary objective of the
Interpretation is to provide guidance on the identification of, and financial
reporting for, entities over which control is achieved through means other than
voting rights; such entities are known as VIE's. FIN 46 requires an enterprise
to consolidate a VIE if that enterprise has a variable interest that will absorb
a majority of the entity's expected losses if they occur, receive a majority of
the entity's expected residual returns if they occur, or both. An enterprise
shall consider the rights and obligations conveyed by its variable interests in
making this determination. This guidance applies immediately to variable
interest entities created after January 31, 2003, and to variable interest
entities in which an enterprise obtains an interest after that date. It applies
in the first fiscal year or interim period beginning after June 15, 2003, to
variable interest entities in which an enterprise holds a variable interest that
it acquired before February 1, 2003. At this time, the Company does not have a
VIE.

2. MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS:

  EL PASO ACQUISITION

     On December 17, 2002, effective as of June 1, 2002, the Company acquired
producing properties, undeveloped leaseholds, gathering and compression
facilities and other related assets in the Greater Natural Buttes area of Uintah
County, Utah from affiliates of El Paso Corporation for approximately $507
million, which includes certain purchase price adjustments. The Company's newly
formed Western Division is comprised substantially of these properties.

     The total purchase price of $507 million was allocated as follows (in
thousands):

<Table>
<S>                                                           <C>
Allocation of purchase price:
  Oil and gas properties -- proved..........................  $464,481
  Oil and gas properties -- unproved........................     3,500
  Gathering assets..........................................    39,185
                                                              --------
     Total allocation.......................................  $507,166
                                                              ========
</Table>

                                       F-13
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  PRO FORMA RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

     The following table reflects the pro forma results of operations for the
respective years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 as though the Acquisition and
the Merger, discussed below, had occurred as of January 1 of each year
presented. The pro forma amounts are not necessarily indicative of the results
that may be reported in the future. The Company began consolidating the results
of the Acquisition with the results of Westport as of December 17, 2002.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                FOR THE YEAR ENDED
                                                                   DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -----------------------
                                                                 2002         2001
                                                              ----------   ----------
                                                                  (IN THOUSANDS,
                                                              EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Revenues....................................................   $461,584     $645,713
Net income (loss)...........................................    (33,746)     124,090
Basic net income (loss) per share...........................      (0.52)        1.82
Diluted net income (loss) per share.........................      (0.52)        1.80
</Table>

  SOUTHEAST TEXAS ACQUISITION

     On September 30, 2002,the Company acquired oil and gas properties located
in southeast Texas, also referred to as the Southeast Texas Acquisition, for a
total cash purchase price of approximately $122.6 million.

     The total purchase price of $122.6 million was allocated as follows (in
thousands):

<Table>
<S>                                                           <C>
Allocation of purchase price:
  Oil and gas properties -- proved..........................  $111,623
  Oil and gas properties -- unproved........................    10,636
  Seismic licenses..........................................     2,936
  Assumed liabilities.......................................    (2,568)
                                                              --------
          Total allocation..................................  $122,627
                                                              ========
</Table>

  BELCO MERGER

     In connection with the Merger on August 21, 2001, the Company consummated a
0.4125 for 1 reverse stock split for existing Belco stockholders (issuing
approximately 13.587 million shares) and issued approximately 38.469 million
shares of common stock to Old Westport stockholders. The Merger was a
non-taxable transaction in which former Old Westport stockholders received a
majority of the Company's common stock. As a result, the Merger was accounted
for using purchase accounting with Old Westport as the accounting survivor. The
Company began consolidating the results of Belco with the results of Old
Westport as of the August 21, 2001 closing date of the Merger.

                                       F-14
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The total purchase price of $1,019 million was allocated as follows (in
thousands):

<Table>
<S>                                                           <C>
Purchase Price:
  Fair value of common stock issued.........................  $  341,455
  Fair value of Belco stock options.........................       8,464
  Fair value of liabilities assumed:
     Liabilities from commodity price risk management.......      52,388
     Current liabilities....................................      45,135
     Long-term debt.........................................     422,327
     Deferred taxes.........................................      87,776
     Other liabilities......................................         258
  Fair value of Belco preferred stock.......................      54,205
  Estimated merger costs....................................       7,000
                                                              ----------
          Total purchase price..............................  $1,019,008
                                                              ==========
Allocation of purchase price:
  Oil and gas properties -- proved..........................  $  690,788
  Oil and gas properties -- unproved........................      48,541
  Goodwill..................................................     246,712
  Current assets............................................      27,060
  Other assets..............................................       5,907
                                                              ----------
          Total allocation..................................  $1,019,008
                                                              ==========
</Table>

     The common stock issued to Belco stockholders in connection with the Merger
was valued at $25.13 per share. The fair value of the Belco stock options
assumed was determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair
value of Belco's publicly-traded debt and preferred stock was based on quoted
market prices on August 21, 2001. The deferred taxes recorded were based on the
difference between the historical tax basis of the Belco assets and liabilities
and the acquisition costs.

3. COMMODITY DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES

     The Company periodically enters into commodity price risk management
("CPRM") transactions to manage its exposure to oil and gas price volatility.
CPRM transactions may take the form of futures contracts, swaps or options. All
CPRM data is presented in accordance with requirements of SFAS No. 133 which the
Company adopted on January 1, 2001. Accordingly, unrealized gains and losses
related to the change in fair market value of derivative contracts which qualify
and are designated as cash flow hedges are recorded as other comprehensive
income or loss and such amounts are reclassified to oil and gas sales revenues
as the associated production occurs. Derivative contracts that do not qualify
for hedge accounting treatment are recorded as derivative assets and liabilities
at market value in the consolidated balance sheet, and the associated unrealized
gains and losses are recorded as current expense or income in the consolidated
statement of operations. While such derivative contracts do not qualify for
hedge accounting, management believes these contracts can be utilized as an
effective component of CPRM activities.

     Upon adoption of SFAS No. 133 on January 1, 2001, the Company recorded a
derivative liability of approximately $4.7 million for the fair market value of
its derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges and a corresponding
loss of approximately $3.1 million (net of tax effect of $1.6 million) as a
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in other comprehensive
income. For the years ended

                                       F-15
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company reclassified approximately $1.3 million
of hedging losses and $2.1 million of hedging gains out of accumulated other
comprehensive income into oil and gas sales revenues, respectively. The hedging
losses and gains reclassified to revenues include cash losses of $8.2 million
and $4.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company recorded a loss in hedging
settlements of $24.6 million. As of December 31, 2002, the Company expects to
reclassify approximately $15 million of loss into earnings from accumulated
other comprehensive income during 2003.

     For the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Company recorded
non-hedge CPRM settlements of $0.8 million and $15.3 million and unrealized
non-hedge change in fair value of derivatives of ($26.7) which included a $0.1
million ineffectiveness loss and $14.3 million with no ineffectiveness,
respectively. The majority, $18.2 million, of the non-hedge loss in fair value
of derivatives for 2002 was related to derivative contracts entered into in
anticipation of the expected production acquired in the El Paso acquisition.
Upon closing of the transaction the derivative contracts qualified for hedge
accounting treatment. The non-hedge CPRM settlements reflect cash settlements of
($2.9) million and $3.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001
respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company recorded an
unrealized non-hedge loss in fair value of derivatives of $0.7 million.

     As of December 31, 2002, the Company had approximately 5.2 million barrels
of oil and 70.7 Bcf of natural gas subject to CPRM contracts for 2003. Of these
contracts, all of the oil and 63.4 Bcf of the natural gas contracts are subject
to weighted average NYMEX floor prices of $23.18 per barrel and $3.78 per Mmbtu
and weighted average NYMEX ceiling prices of $25.16 per barrel and $4.20 per
Mmbtu, respectively, excluding the effect, if any, of the three-way floor price.
The remaining 2003 gas CPRM contract settlements are calculated based on the
Northwest Pipeline Rocky Mountain Index ("NWPRM") with weighted average NWPRM
floor and ceiling prices of $3.00 and $3.29, respectively. In addition, included
in the 63.4 Bcf of natural gas contracts, the Company has entered into basis
swaps covering 13.4 Bcf of natural gas for 2003 that lock in the pricing
differential between NYMEX and NWPRM at a weighted average price differential of
$0.67 per Mmbtu and 3.7 Bcf for 2003 that lock in the pricing differential
between NYMEX and Colorado Interstate Gas Rocky Mountain Index ("CIGRM") at a
weighted average price differential of $0.95 per Mmbtu. The Company has
approximately .4 million barrels of oil and 45.7 Bcf of natural gas subject to
CPRM contracts for 2004. Of these contracts, all of the oil and 38.3 Bcf of the
natural gas contracts are subject to weighted average NYMEX floor prices of
$23.60 per barrel and $3.83 per Mmbtu and weighted average NYMEX ceiling prices
of $23.60 per barrel and $4.06 per Mmbtu, respectively, excluding the effect, if
any, of the three-way floor price. The remaining 2004 gas CPRM contract
settlements are calculated based on the NWPRM Index with weighted average swap
price of $3.20 per Mmbtu. In addition, included in the 38.3 Bcf of natural gas
contracts, the Company has entered into basis swaps covering 3.7 Bcf of natural
gas for 2004 that lock in the pricing differential between NYMEX and NWPRM at a
weighted average price differential of $0.66 per Mmbtu and 1.8 Bcf of natural
gas for 2004 that lock in the pricing differential between NYMEX and CIGRM at a
weighted average differential of $0.81. The Company has approximately 1.8 Bcf of
natural gas subject to CPRM contracts for 2005 with a weighted average NYMEX
swap price of $3.85 per Mmbtu. The contracts discussed above represent the
Company's hedge and non-hedge positions.

                                       F-16
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The tables below provide details about the volumes and prices of all open
CPRM, hedge and non-hedge commitments, as of December 31, 2002.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               2003      2004      2005
                                                              -------   -------   ------
<S>                                                           <C>       <C>       <C>
HEDGES
  GAS
     NYMEX Price Swaps Sold-receive fixed price (thousand
       Mmbtu)(1)............................................   31,950    18,300    1,825
       Weighted average price per Mmbtu.....................  $  4.01   $  3.92   $ 3.85
     NWPRM Price Swaps Sold-receive fixed price (thousand
       Mmbtu)(2)............................................       --     7,320       --
       Weighted average price per Mmbtu.....................       --   $  3.20       --
     NYMEX Collars Sold (thousand Mmbtu)(3).................   22,383    16,380       --
       Weighted average floor price per Mmbtu...............  $  3.61   $  3.70       --
       Weighted average ceiling price per Mmbtu.............  $  4.29   $  4.00       --
     NWPRM Collars Sold (thousand Mmbtu)(4).................    7,300        --       --
       Weighted average floor price per Mmbtu...............  $  3.00        --       --
       Weighted averaged ceiling price per Mmbtu............  $  3.29        --       --
     NYMEX Three-way Collars (thousand Mmbtu)(3)(5).........    8,030     3,660       --
       Weighted average floor price per Mmbtu...............  $  3.39   $  4.00       --
       Weighted average ceiling price per Mmbtu.............  $  4.73   $  5.00       --
       Three-way average floor price per Mmbtu..............  $  2.22   $  3.15       --
     Basic Swaps(6)
       NWPRM (thousand Mmbtu)...............................   13,430     3,660       --
          Average differential price per Mmbtu..............  $  0.67   $  0.66       --
       CIGRM (thousand Mmbtu)...............................    3,650     1,830       --
          Average differential price per Mmbtu..............  $  0.95   $  0.81       --
  OIL
     NYMEX Price Swaps Sold-receive fixed price
       (Mbbls)(1)...........................................      875       366       --
       Weighted average price per bbl.......................  $ 21.80   $ 23.60       --
     NYMEX Collars Sold (Mbbls)(3)..........................    1,980        --       --
       Weighted average floor price per bbl.................  $ 24.45        --       --
       Weighted average ceiling price per bbl...............  $ 26.45        --       --
     NYMEX Three-way Collars (Mbbls)(3)(5)..................    1,995        --       --
       Weighted average floor price per bbl.................  $ 23.18        --       --
       Weighted average ceiling price per bbl...............  $ 26.30        --       --
       Three-way average floor price per bbl................  $ 18.90        --       --
NON HEDGES
  OIL
     NYMEX Price Swaps Sold-receive fixed price
       (Mbbls)(1)...........................................      300        --       --
       Weighted average price per bbl.......................  $ 18.86        --       --
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) For any particular NYMEX swap sold transaction, the Counterparty is required
    to make a payment to Westport in the event that the NYMEX Reference Price
    for any settlement period is less than the swap price for such hedge, and
    Westport is required to make a payment to the Counterparty in the event that
    the NYMEX Reference Price for any settlement period is greater than the swap
    price for such hedge.

                                       F-17
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

(2) For any particular NWPRM swap sold transaction, the Counterparty is required
    to make a payment to Westport in the event that the NWPRM Index Price for
    any settlement period is less than the swap price for such hedge, and
    Westport is required to make a payment to the Counterparty in the event that
    the NWPRM Index Price for any settlement period is greater than the swap
    price for such hedge.

(3) For any particular NYMEX collar transaction, the Counterparty is required to
    make a payment to Westport if the average NYMEX Reference Price for the
    reference period is below the floor price for such transaction, and Westport
    is required to make payment to the Counterparty if the average NYMEX
    Reference Price is above the ceiling price of such transaction.

(4) For any particular NWPRM collar transaction, the Counterparty is required to
    make a payment to Westport if the average NWPRM Index Price for the
    reference period is below the floor price for such transaction, and Westport
    is required to make payment to the Counterparty if the average NWPRM Index
    Price is above the ceiling price of such transaction.

(5) NYMEX three-way collars are settled as described in footnote (3) above, with
    the following exceptions: if the NYMEX reference price falls below the
    three-way floor price, the average floor price is adjusted by the amount by
    which the NYMEX reference price is below the three-way floor price. For
    example, on a three-way oil collar, if the NYMEX reference price is $18.00
    per bbl during the term of the 2003 three-way collars, then the effective
    average floor price would be $22.28 per bbl.

(6) For any particular basis swap, the counterparty is required to make a
    payment to Westport in the event that the difference between the NYMEX
    Reference Price and the applicable published index (NWPRM or CIGRM) for any
    settlement period is greater than the swap differential price for such
    hedge, and Westport is required to make a payment to the counterparty in the
    event that the difference between the NYMEX Reference Price and the
    applicable published index (NMPRM or CIGRM) for any settlement period is
    less than the swap differential price for such hedge.

     Also see Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for interest rate
hedge disclosures.

4.  EARNINGS PER SHARE AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

  EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net earnings attributable
to common stock by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during each period, excluding treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share are
computed by adjusting the average number of common shares outstanding for the
dilutive effect, if any, of convertible preferred stock and stock options.

                                       F-18
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following sets forth the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per
share (in thousands, except per share data):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                               FOR THE YEAR ENDED
                                                               ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                               ------------------
                                                                 2002      2001
                                                               --------   -------
<S>                                                            <C>        <C>
Net income (loss) available to common stockholders..........   $(33,328)  $48,234
                                                               ========   =======
Weighted average common shares outstanding..................     53,007    43,408
  Add dilutive effects of employee stock options............         --       760
                                                               --------   -------
Weighted average common shares outstanding including the
  effects of dilutive securities............................     53,007    44,168
                                                               ========   =======
Basic earnings per share....................................   $  (0.63)  $  1.11
                                                               ========   =======
Diluted earnings per share..................................   $  (0.63)  $  1.09
                                                               ========   =======
</Table>

  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)

     The Company follows SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," which
establishes standards for reporting comprehensive income. In addition to net
income, comprehensive income includes all changes in equity during a period,
except those resulting from investments and distributions to the owners of the
Company. The components of other comprehensive income net of tax for the twelve
months ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 are as follows (in thousands):

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              FOR THE YEAR ENDED
                                                              ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------
                                                                2002       2001
                                                              --------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>
Net income (loss) available to common stockholders..........  $(33,328)  $ 48,234
Other comprehensive income:
  Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle.......        --     (3,100)
  Change in fair value of derivative hedging instruments....   (27,981)    13,292
  Enron non-cash settlements reclassified to income.........      (916)       740
  Hedge settlements reclassified to income..................     1,625     (2,068)
  Currency translation adjustment...........................      (161)        --
                                                              --------   --------
Comprehensive income (loss).................................  $(60,761)  $ 57,098
                                                              ========   ========
</Table>

5.  CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

     The Company has accounts with separate banks in Denver, Colorado, Dallas,
Texas and Calgary, Canada. The Company invests substantially all available cash
in overnight investment accounts consisting of U.S. Treasury obligations and
commercial paper. At December 31, 2002, the balance in the overnight investment
accounts was $35.8 million.

     The Company sells its oil and natural gas production to companies it
believes to be creditworthy. Actual losses relating to product sales have been
immaterial and currently the Company does require collateral from certain
companies.

                                       F-19
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

6. INCOME TAXES

     The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------------------
                                                                2002        2001       2000
                                                              ---------   --------   --------
                                                                      (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>        <C>
Current:
  Federal...................................................  $ (1,894)   $ 1,806    $   675
  State.....................................................      (200)       200         --
                                                              --------    -------    -------
                                                                (2,094)     2,006        675
                                                              --------    -------    -------
Deferred:
  Federal...................................................   (16,736)    25,654     22,289
  State.....................................................      (722)       977        760
                                                              --------    -------    -------
                                                               (17,458)    26,631     23,049
                                                              --------    -------    -------
Provision for income taxes..................................  $(19,552)   $28,637    $23,724
                                                              ========    =======    =======
</Table>

     The difference between the provision for income taxes and the amounts
computed by applying the U.S. Federal statutory rate are as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                         -------------------------------
                                                           2002        2001       2000
                                                         ---------   --------   --------
                                                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                      <C>         <C>        <C>
Federal statutory rate of 35%..........................  $(16,841)   $27,460    $23,541
State income taxes, net of Federal effect..............      (722)     1,177        760
Change in valuation allowance..........................        --         --       (460)
Other permanent differences............................        21         --       (117)
Other..................................................        84         --         --
Adjustment to prior year's estimated tax liability.....    (2,094)        --         --
                                                         --------    -------    -------
                                                         $(19,552)   $28,637    $23,724
                                                         ========    =======    =======
</Table>

     Long-term deferred tax liabilities are comprised of the following:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------
                                                                2002        2001
                                                              ---------   ---------
                                                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                           <C>         <C>
Oil and natural gas properties..............................  $(187,347)  $(222,539)
Taxes related to net hedging liabilities (assets)...........     14,910      (5,095)
Taxes related to foreign currency translation liabilities...         92          --
Net operating loss carryforward.............................     42,773      64,506
Capital loss carryforward...................................      3,642       3,723
Alternative minimum tax credit..............................      1,400       1,400
                                                              ---------   ---------
  Net deferred tax liability................................  $(124,530)  $(158,005)
                                                              =========   =========
</Table>

     As of December 31, 2002, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards
for income tax purposes of approximately $116.9 million, which expire between
2018 and 2022 and may be utilized to reduce future tax

                                       F-20
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

liability of the Company. The utilization of substantially all of these loss
carryforwards, acquired in the Merger, will be limited to approximately $16.3
million per year.

7.  LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-term debt consisted of:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                  DECEMBER 31,
                                                              ---------------------
                                                                2002         2001
                                                              --------     --------
                                                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
8 1/4% senior subordinated notes due 2011...................  $591,771(1)  $272,147(2)
8 7/8% senior subordinated notes due 2007...................   127,587(3)   122,077(2)
  Revolving credit facility due on July 1, 2005.............        --       35,000
  Revolving credit facility due on December 16, 2006........    80,000           --
                                                              --------     --------
  Less current portion......................................        --           --
                                                              --------     --------
                                                              $799,358     $429,224
                                                              ========     ========
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) The balance noted above at December 31, 2002 of the 8 1/4% Senior
    Subordinated Notes reflects an increase of $8,916,000 related to the premium
    recorded with the issuance of the additional debt security issued December
    17, 2002 and an increase of $7,855,000 related to fair market value
    adjustments recorded as a result of the Company's interest rate swaps
    accounted for as fair value hedges. See Interest Rate Swaps -- Hedges below.

(2) The balances noted above at December 31, 2001 of the 8 1/4% Senior
    Subordinated Notes and the 8 7/8% Senior Subordinated Notes reflect
    reductions of $2,853,000 and $2,353,000 related to fair market value
    adjustments recorded as a result of the Company's interest rate swaps
    accounted for as fair value hedges. See Interest Rate Swaps -- Hedges below.

(3) The balance noted above at December 31, 2002 of the 8 7/8% Senior
    Subordinated reflects an increase of $3,489,000 related to the gain on the
    cancellation of the fair market value hedge, which will be amortized over
    the remaining life of the note.

  REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY

     The Company entered into a new credit facility (the "Revolving Credit
Facility") on December 17, 2002 with JPMorgan Chase Bank and Credit Suisse First
Boston Corporation, for a maximum committed amount of $600 million and an
initial borrowing base of approximately $470 million. The facility matures on
December 16, 2006 and contains covenants and default provisions customary for
similar credit facilities. We made borrowings under the Credit Facility to
refinance all outstanding indebtedness under our previous revolving credit
facility and to pay general corporate expenses.

     Advances under the Credit Facility are in the form of either an ABR loan or
a Eurodollar loan. The interest on an ABR loan is a fluctuating rate based upon
the highest of: (1) the rate of interest announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank as its
prime rate; (2) the secondary market rate for three-month certificates of
deposits plus 1%; or (3) the Federal funds effective rate plus 0.5%, plus in
each case a margin of 0% to 0.625% based upon the ratio of total debt to EBITDAX
and the ratings of our senior unsecured debt as issued by Standard and Poor's
Rating Group and Moody's Investors Service, Inc. EBITDAX is defined as net
income plus interest expense, income tax expense, and amounts attributable to
depreciation, depletion, exploration, amortization and other non-cash charges
and expenses, but excluding changes in value of certain hedging instruments and
extraordinary or nonrecurring gains or losses, subject to certain other
specified adjustments. The interest on a Eurodollar loan is a fluctuating rate
based upon the rate at which Eurodollar deposits in the

                                       F-21
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

London interbank market are quoted plus a margin of 1.000% to 1.875% based upon
the ratio of total debt to EBITDAX and the ratings of our senior unsecured debt
as issued by Standard and Poor's Rating Group and Moody's Investors Service,
Inc.

     The Revolving Credit Facility contains various covenants and restrictive
provisions including two financial covenants that require the Company to
maintain a current ratio of not less than 1.0 to 1.0 and a ratio of EBITDAX to
consolidated interest expense for the preceding four consecutive fiscal quarters
of not less than 3.0 to 1.0. Commitment fees under the Revolving Credit Facility
range from 0.25% to 0.5% on the average daily amount of the available unused
borrowing capacity based on the rating of our senior unsecured debt as issued by
Standard and Poor's Rating Group and Moody's Investor Service, Inc.

     As of December 31, 2002, we had borrowings and letters of credit issued of
approximately $97.1 million outstanding under the Credit Facility, with a
weighted average interest rate of 3.3% and available unused borrowing capacity
of approximately $372.9 million. The Revolving Credit Facility currently limits
the outstanding letters of credit to $200 million.

     Under the terms of the Revolving Credit Facility the Company must meet
certain tests before it is able to declare or pay any dividend on (other than
dividends payable solely in equity interests of the Company other than
disqualified stock), or make any payment of, or set apart assets for a sinking
or other analogous fund for the purchase, redemption, defeasance, retirement or
other acquisition of, any shares of any class of equity interests of the Company
or any restricted subsidiary, whether now or hereafter outstanding, or make any
other distribution in respect thereof, either directly or indirectly, whether in
cash or property or in obligations of the Company or any restricted subsidiary.

  8 7/8% SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES DUE 2007

     In connection with the Merger, the Company assumed $147 million face
amount, $149 million fair value, of Belco's 8 7/8% Senior Subordinated Notes due
2007. On November 1, 2001, approximately $24.3 million face amount of these
notes was tendered to the Company pursuant to the change of control provisions
of the related indenture. The tender price was equal to 101% of the principal
amount of each note plus accrued and unpaid interest as of October 29, 2001.
Including the premium and accrued interest, the total amount paid was $24.8
million. The Company used borrowings under its previous revolving credit
facility to fund the repayment. No gain or loss was recorded in connection with
the redemption as the fair value of the 8 7/8% Senior Subordinated Notes
recorded in connection with the Merger equaled the redemption cost.

  8 1/4% SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES DUE 2011

     On December 17, 2002, the Company issued $300 million in additional
principal amount of 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes Due 2011, or the old notes,
pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act at a price of 103% of the
principal amount, with accrued interest from November 1, 2002. The old notes are
additional debt securities under the Indenture pursuant to which, on November 5,
2001, the Company had issued $275 million of 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes
Due 2011. On March 14, 2002, all of the 2001 notes were exchanged in an exchange
offer for an equal principal amount of the initial exchange notes. The Company
used the proceeds from the sale of the old notes to finance, in part, the
Acquisition. On January 24, 2003, the Company filed the exchange offer
registration statement pursuant to a registration rights agreement relating to
the old notes. In the event the Company fails to comply with some of its
obligations under the registration rights agreement relating to the old notes,
the Company will pay additional interest on the old notes. The exchange offer
registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on January 30, 2003.
The Company was offering to exchange up to $300 million aggregate principal
amount of new 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes Due 2011, or exchange notes, that
have been registered under the Securities Act for an equal principal amount of
old notes. The exchange offer expired at 5 p.m., New York City time, on March 6,
2003. The Company intends to close the exchange offer in March of this year.
                                       F-22
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The notes are senior subordinated unsecured obligations of the Company and
are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior subordinated basis by some
of its existing and future restricted subsidiaries. The notes mature on November
1, 2011. The Company pays interest on the notes semiannually on May 1 and
November 1. The first interest payment on the old notes is due on May 1, 2003.
The Company is entitled to redeem the notes in whole or in part on or after
November 1, 2006 for the redemption price set forth in the notes. Prior to
November 1, 2006, the Company is entitled to redeem the notes, in whole but not
in part, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes plus a
premium. There is no sinking fund for the notes. If the Company fails to comply
with some of its obligations under the registration rights agreement relating to
the old notes, the Company will pay additional interest on the old notes.

  INTEREST RATE SWAPS -- HEDGES

     On November 21, 2001, the Company entered into two separate interest rate
swaps to hedge the fair value of a portion of the 8 7/8% Senior Subordinated
Notes and 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes. The swap on the 8 7/8% Senior
Subordinated Notes had a notional amount of $122.7 million and an expiration
date of September 15, 2007. Under this swap agreement, the Company paid the
counterparty a variable rate (LIBOR +3.44%) and received a fixed rate (8 7/8%).
On September 16, 2002 the interest rate swap on the 8 7/8% Senior Subordinated
Notes was terminated resulting in $5.8 million being paid to the Company. The
Company recorded a $2.1 million reduction in interest expense and a $3.7 million
fair value gain, which was added to the outstanding debt balance and will be
amortized over the remaining life of the note. The swap on the 8 1/4% Senior
Subordinated Notes has a notional amount of $100.0 million and an expiration
date of November 1, 2011. Under the swap agreement, the Company pays the
counterparty a variable rate (LIBOR +2.42%) and receives a fixed rate (8 1/4%).
Beginning on November 1, 2006 the counterparty has the option to terminate the
swap early on any date beginning on November 1, 2006, subject to an early
termination fee ranging from $4.125 million at November 1, 2006 to $0 on or
after November 1, 2009. The early termination dates and fees mirror the
prepayment terms and prepayment penalties included in the indenture related to
the 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes.

     The Company has documented and designated the interest rate swap as a hedge
of the fair value of a portion of the 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated Notes. Because
this swap meets the conditions to qualify for the "short cut" method of
assessing effectiveness under the provisions of SFAS 133, the change in the fair
value of the debt is assumed to equal the change in the fair value of the
interest rate swap. As such, there is no ineffectiveness assumed to exist
between the interest rate swap and the senior subordinated notes.

  INTEREST RATE SWAPS -- NON-HEDGE

     The swaps discussed below were not considered hedges for accounting
purposes during 2001.

     As a result of the Merger, the Company assumed three interest rate swap
agreements to convert fixed rate obligations to floating rate obligations. The
agreements were terminated in November 2001. During 2001, the Company recorded
$5.3 million in unrealized derivative gain for the change in fair value of
interest rate derivative contracts.

                                       F-23
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Maturities of long-term debt for each of the five years following December
31, 2002 are as follows (in thousands):

<Table>
<S>                                                           <C>
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31,
2003........................................................  $     --
2004........................................................        --
2005........................................................        --
2006........................................................    80,000
2007........................................................   127,587
Thereafter..................................................   591,771
                                                              --------
                                                              $799,358
                                                              ========
</Table>

8. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     On December 16, 2002, the Company closed the shelf offering of 11.5 million
shares of common stock at a price of $19.90 per share, which includes 1.5
million shares covered by an over-allotment option granted to, and which was
exercised by, the underwriters. The Company received net proceeds of
approximately $216 million from the sale of our common stock, which the Company
used to finance, in part, the Acquisition.

     On November 19, 2002, the Company completed the private equity offering of
3.125 million shares of its common stock to Spindrift Partners, L.P., Spindrift
Investors (Bermuda) L.P., Global Natural Resources III and Global Natural
Resources III L.P. at a net price to us of $16.00 per share for aggregate
proceeds of $50 million. On December 31, 2002, the Company filed the shelf
registration statement registering the resale by the selling stockholders from
time to time of its common stock issued in the private equity offering. The
registration statement was declared effective on January 7, 2003 by the SEC.

     On September 21, 2001, the Board of Directors authorized management to
repurchase up to $30 million of the Company's common stock. Through December 31,
2002, the Company has repurchased 30,000 shares of its common stock at an
average price of $13.61 per share including broker commissions.

     The Company's 6 1/2% convertible preferred stock has a liquidation
preference of $25 per share and is convertible at the option of the holder into
shares of the Company's common stock at an initial conversion rate of 0.465795
shares of common stock for each share of preferred stock, equivalent to a
conversion price of $11.64 per share of common stock. During 2002 and 2001, the
Company declared and paid dividends of $1.63 and $0.54 per share of preferred
stock, respectively.

9. STOCK OPTIONS

     On March 24, 2000, the Company repurchased and cancelled 1,344,510 stock
options, representing all outstanding stock options at that date, from employees
and directors for approximately $3.4 million. The cost to repurchase the stock
options is included in stock compensation expense in the accompanying statement
of operations for the year ended December 31, 2000. The cost to repurchase the
stock options was based on the difference between $10.85 and the exercise prices
of $8.00 and $10.67 of such options.

     On October 17, 2000, the Westport Resources Directors' Stock Option Plan
and the Westport Resources Corporation Stock Option Plan (the "Predecessor
Plans") were merged into the Westport Resources Corporation 2000 Stock Incentive
Plan (the "Stock Option Plan"). The Stock Option Plan provides for issuance of
options to employees, officers and directors to purchase shares of common stock.
The aggregate number of shares of common stock that may be issued under the
Stock Option Plan is 6,232,484 shares. The exercise price, vesting and duration
of the options may vary and will be determined at the time of issuance.

                                       F-24
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     During 2002, options to purchase 638,099 shares of the Company's common
stock were granted under the Stock Option Plan at exercise prices between $17.18
and $20.47 per share, which reflected the estimated fair market value of the
shares at the date of grant. These options vest ratably over two or three years
from the date of grant and have a term of 10 years.

     In connection with the August 21, 2001 merger of Old Westport and Belco,
options previously issued by Belco were converted into options to purchase
788,194 shares of Westport common stock at exercise prices between $11.82 and
$70.30 per share. These exercise prices reflect the estimated fair market value
of the shares on August 21, 2001, after converting the Belco options into the
existing Westport plan using a .4125 rate to account for the reverse stock split
which was consummated under the merger agreement. Also during 2001, options to
purchase 690,562 shares of the Company's common stock were granted under the
Stock Option Plan at exercise prices between $15.90 and $31.07 per share, which
reflected the estimated fair market value of the shares at the date of grant.
The options vest ratably over two or three years from the date of grant and have
a term of 10 years.

     Options to purchase 2,110,880 shares of the Company's common stock were
granted during 2000 under the Stock Option Plan at exercise prices between
$10.85 and $17.63 per share, which reflected the estimated fair market value of
the shares at the date of grant. Of the 2,110,880 options granted in 2000,
1,344,510 options are deemed to be replacement options (the "Replacement
Options") for those options repurchased by the Company on March 24, 2000.

     In March 2000, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 44, "Accounting for
Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation." The Interpretation clarifies
(a) the definition of employee for purposes of applying APB Opinion No. 25, (b)
the criteria for determining whether a plan qualifies as a noncompensatory plan,
(c) the accounting consequence of various modifications to the terms of
previously fixed stock options or awards, and (d) the accounting for an exchange
of stock options and/or awards in a business combination. Under provisions of
the Interpretation, the Company is required to account for 1,080,473 of the
Replacement Options as variable awards from July 1, 2000 until the date the
options are exercised, forfeited or expire unexercised. Compensation cost will
be measured for the amount of any increases in our stock price after July 1,
2000 and recognized over the remaining vesting period of the options. Any
decreases in the Company stock price subsequent to July 1, 2000 will be
recognized as a decrease in compensation cost, limited to the amount of
compensation cost previously recognized as a result of increases in our stock
price. Any adjustment to compensation cost for further changes in the stock
price after the award vests will be recognized immediately. As of December 31,
2002, 979,223 of the Replacement Options were still outstanding, which resulted
in $2.1 million, $0.4 million and $4.3 million of compensation costs recorded in
2000, 2001 and 2002 respectively.

                                       F-25
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     A summary of the status of the Company's Stock Option Plans as of December
31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 and changes during the years ended December 31, 2002,
2001, and 2000 are included below:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                            WEIGHTED
                                                                SHARES      AVERAGE
                                                                 UNDER      EXERCISE
                                                              OPTION PLAN    PRICE
                                                              -----------   --------
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>
Balance at December 31, 1999................................   1,344,510     $ 8.29
  Options repurchased.......................................  (1,344,510)     12.43
  Options granted...........................................   2,110,880      12.61
  Options forfeited.........................................     (44,421)     10.85
  Options exercised.........................................     (13,018)     10.85
                                                              ----------     ------
Balance at December 31, 2000................................   2,053,441      12.61
  Options converted from Belco..............................     788,194      28.61
  Options granted...........................................     690,562      21.32
  Options forfeited.........................................    (276,683)     27.75
  Options exercised.........................................     (49,675)     11.59
                                                              ----------     ------
Balance at December 31, 2001................................   3,205,839      17.13
  Options granted...........................................     638,099      18.23
  Options forfeited.........................................    (260,861)     31.02
  Options exercised.........................................    (105,064)     12.85
                                                              ----------     ------
Balance at December 31, 2002................................   3,478,013     $16.42
                                                              ==========     ======
Options exercisable at December 31, 2000....................      29,516     $10.85
                                                              ==========     ======
Options exercisable at December 31, 2001....................   1,272,065     $19.36
                                                              ==========     ======
Options exercisable at December 31, 2002....................   1,812,379     $15.97
                                                              ==========     ======
</Table>

     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 2002.

<Table>
<Caption>
                                          OPTIONS OUTSTANDING
                                   ----------------------------------   OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                                                WEIGHTED                --------------------
                                                 AVERAGE     WEIGHTED               WEIGHTED
                                                REMAINING    AVERAGE                AVERAGE
RANGE OF                           NUMBER OF   CONTRACTUAL   EXERCISE   NUMBER OF   EXERCISE
EXERCISE PRICE                      OPTIONS    LIFE (YRS)     PRICE      OPTIONS     PRICE
- --------------                     ---------   -----------   --------   ---------   --------
<S>                                <C>         <C>           <C>        <C>         <C>
$ 7.03-$14.06....................  1,459,138       7.3        $10.92      998,171    $10.94
$14.07-$21.09....................  1,726,933       8.5        $18.64      578,677    $18.46
$21.10-$28.12....................    161,166       6.9        $23.31      148,168    $23.32
$28.13-$42.17....................     68,500       8.4        $30.74       25,087    $30.77
$42.18-$49.21....................     14,020       4.1        $46.81       14,020    $46.81
$49.22-$63.26....................     44,957       4.9        $49.77       44,957    $49.77
$63.27-$70.30....................      3,299       3.4        $70.02        3,299    $70.02
                                   ---------       ---        ------    ---------    ------
                                   3,478,013       7.9        $16.42    1,812,379    $15.97
                                   =========       ===        ======    =========    ======
</Table>

     The Company has elected to continue following Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and has elected to
adopt the disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation." Had compensation costs for the Company's options been

                                       F-26
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

determined based on the fair value at the grant dates consistent with SFAS No.
123, the Company's net income would have been decreased and the net loss would
have been increased to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                     YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              -------------------------------------
                                                                 2002          2001         2000
                                                              -----------   ----------   ----------
                                                              (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                                           <C>           <C>          <C>
Net income (loss)
  As reported...............................................   $(28,566)     $49,821      $43,536
  Pro forma.................................................    (36,918)      45,148       41,885
Basic net income (loss) per common share
  As reported...............................................   $  (0.63)     $  1.11      $  1.54
  Pro forma.................................................      (0.79)        1.00         1.51
Diluted net income (loss) per common share
  As reported...............................................   $  (0.63)     $  1.09      $  1.52
  Pro forma.................................................      (0.79)        0.99         1.49
</Table>

     The weighted average fair value of options granted during the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, calculated using the Black-Scholes option
pricing model was $8.46, $8.88 and $5.44, respectively. The fair value of each
option granted is estimated with the following weighted average assumptions for
grants in 2002, 2001 and 2000: risk-free interest rate of 1.67%, 3.89% and
6.25%, respectively; no dividend yields; expected volatility of 52.22%, 40.74%
and 38.34%, respectively; and expected lives of 5 years.

10. RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS

     The Company issued 36,550 shares of common stock as restricted stock awards
pursuant to the Company's 2000 Stock Incentive Plan to certain employees during
2001. The shares are restricted for various periods ranging from one to three
years after the date of grant. As of December 31, 2002 21,550 shares had vested.
During the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, compensation expense of $0.3
million and $0.3 million, respectively, was recorded as a result of the
issuance.

11. MAJOR PURCHASERS

     The following purchasers accounted for 10% or more of the Company's oil and
gas sales for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              2002   2001   2000
                                                              ----   ----   ----
<S>                                                           <C>    <C>    <C>
Dynegy Inc. ................................................   --     23%    23%
Conoco Inc. ................................................   10%    --     14%
EOTT Energy Corporation.....................................   --     --     13%
</Table>

                                       F-27
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

12. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     At December 31, 2002, the Company has leases covering office space and
copiers under noncancelable agreements which begin to expire in November 2003.
The minimum annual lease payments under noncancelable operating leases are as
follows (in thousands):

<Table>
<S>                                                           <C>
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31
2003........................................................      $1,196
2004........................................................         885
2005........................................................       1,177
2006........................................................       1,256
2007........................................................       1,160
Thereafter..................................................         522
                                                                  ------
                                                                  $6,196
                                                                  ======
</Table>

     Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was
approximately $1,439,000, $954,000 and $820,000, respectively.

     The Company entered into employment agreements on April 1, 2002 with its
chief executive officer and president, which provide for annual base salaries of
$382,000 and $264,000, respectively, subject to annual adjustments through May
31, 2005. The agreements provide for severance payments equal to three times the
individual's then applicable base salary and three times the average of the
bonus the individual received in the last three years if the Company terminates
such person's employment other than for cause or if such person's employment is
terminated upon a change of control of Westport.

     Following the Merger, the Company entered into retention agreements with
its executive officers. The retention agreements set forth the terms and
conditions of the officers' compensation in the event of termination of their
employment following a change in control, as defined in the agreements, within
five years of the date of such retention agreements. Each agreement
automatically expires if a change in control has not occurred within the
five-year period, and may be renewed for successive one-year periods by written
agreement of the parties. If a termination following a change in control occurs
within the specified period, other than a termination for cause or with good
reason, as defined in the agreement, the terminated person will be entitled to
all earned and accrued compensation and benefits plus severance compensation
equal to a stated percentage of the sum of their respective base salary and
average bonus for three prior years, plus the amount of any excise tax imposed
on such severance payment. In addition, all equity incentive awards become
immediately vested.

     Westport Oil and Gas Company, L.P., the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary,
is a defendant in a case brought in July 2001 against its predecessor, Belco
Energy Corp., in the district court of Sweetwater County, Wyoming. The complaint
seeks damages on behalf of a purported class of royalty owners for alleged
improper deduction, valuation and reporting under the Wyoming Royalty Payment
Act in connection with royalty payments made by Belco on production from wells
it operates in the Moxa Arch area of the Green River Basin. Plaintiffs have
advised Westport that they calculate the amount of damages allegedly owed by
Belco as approximately $1,165,000, which includes attorneys fees and litigation
costs. Westport has denied liability for any of these damages and believes that
it has valid defenses to plaintiffs' claims. Class certification and discovery
have been stayed pending the decision by the Wyoming Supreme Court in a case
involving unrelated parties that may have a bearing on this case and other
similar cases filed by plaintiffs against other oil and gas industry operators
in the Green River Basin. Settlement discussions have occurred with plaintiffs
and are ongoing. The Company believes that the potential liability with respect
to such proceedings is not material in

                                       F-28
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

the aggregate to the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash
flows. Accordingly, the Company has not established a reserve for loss in
connection with this proceeding.

     The Company is subject to governmental and regulatory controls arising in
the ordinary course of business. It is the opinion of the Company's management
that there are no claims or litigation involving the Company that are likely to
have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations
or cash flows.

13. RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLAN

     Effective December 1, 1995, the Company adopted a retirement savings plan.
The Westport Savings and Profit Sharing Plan (the "Plan") is a defined
contribution plan and covers all employees of the Company. The Plan is subject
to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended, and Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.

     The assets of the Plan are held and the related investments are executed by
the Plan's trustee. Participants in the Plan have investment alternatives in
which to place their funds and may place their funds in one or more of these
investment alternatives. Administrative fees are paid by the Company on behalf
of the Plan. The Plan provides for discretionary matching by the Company of 75%
of each participant's contributions up to 6% of the participant's compensation.
The Company contributed $610,000, $400,000 and $155,000, for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

14. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     Prior to the Merger, Belco entered into a substantial portion of its
natural gas and crude oil commodity swap agreements and option agreements with
Enron North America Corp., ("ENA"), formerly known as Enron Capital & Trade
Resources Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Enron Corp. Mr. Robert A. Belfer,
one of the Company's directors, was a member of the Board of Directors of Enron
Corp. and was the CEO of Belco at the time these transactions were entered into.
These agreements were entered into in the ordinary course of business of Belco
and on terms that the Company believes were no less favorable to Belco than the
terms of similar arrangements with third parties. Pursuant to the terms of these
agreements the Company paid ENA a net amount of approximately $5.4 million from
the date of the Merger, August 21, 2001, through December 31, 2001.

     On November 29, 2001, the Company terminated all commodity derivative
contracts with ENA. The Company exercised its rights pursuant to the early
termination provisions of such contracts as a result of ENA's bankruptcy filing
and related events. The Company believes that it had the legal right to
terminate these agreements, but ENA may challenge the termination in bankruptcy
court. Applying the mark-to-market and setoff methodology of the derivative
contracts with ENA, the Company has calculated that it owed ENA a net amount of
$204,000 for all derivative transactions that were outstanding under the ENA
contracts. Although the Company believes this methodology was correct, it is
possible that ENA will challenge such calculations and claim larger amounts
owed.

15. SEGMENT INFORMATION

     The Company operates in four geographic divisions: Northern (Rocky
Mountains); Southern (Permian Basin, Mid-Continent and Gulf Coast); Western
(Uinta Basin which is currently focused on the recently acquired properties in
Utah) and Gulf of Mexico (offshore). Amounts presented below for Western only
represent fifteen days of operations in 2002. All four areas are engaged in the
production, development, acquisition and exploration of oil and natural gas
properties. The Company evaluates segment performance

                                       F-29
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

based on the profit or loss from operations before income taxes. Corporate
general and administrative expenses are unallocated in 2001 and 2000.
Consolidated and segment financial information is as follows:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              GULF OF    CORPORATE &
                             NORTHERN   SOUTHERN   WESTERN     MEXICO    UNALLOCATED   CONSOLIDATED
                             --------   --------   --------   --------   -----------   ------------
                                                         (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                          <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>           <C>
2002
Revenues(1)................  $126,693   $163,842   $  1,857   $135,184    $(27,178)     $  400,398
DD&A.......................    45,210     77,844        791     78,813         435         203,093
Profit (loss)..............    12,571      8,160        292     (3,740)    (32,339)        (15,056)
Assets(2)..................   395,375    894,420    506,618    296,330     140,798       2,233,541
Expenditures for assets,
  net......................    72,074    162,706    510,916     80,220       1,586         827,502
2001
Revenues(1)................    92,583     73,526         --    153,128      29,623         348,860
DD&A.......................    26,116     34,108         --     62,947         888         124,059
Profit (loss)..............    22,064     12,305         --     33,197      17,249          84,815
Assets(2)..................   418,817    789,429         --    305,372      90,598       1,604,216
Expenditures for assets,
  net......................    40,217     38,195         --    115,088         744         194,244
2000
Revenues(1)................    91,416     38,715         --    117,668     (25,366)        222,433
DD&A.......................    15,220      8,950         --     40,431         255          64,856
Profit (loss)..............    43,885     18,826         --     49,348     (36,450)         75,609
Assets(2)..................   130,530     87,189         --    296,412      37,700         551,831
Expenditures for assets,
  net......................    14,661      5,620         --    124,936         869         146,086
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Corporate and unallocated revenues consist of hedge settlements, non-hedge
    settlements and non-hedge change in fair value of derivatives.

(2) Corporate and unallocated assets include $16.5 million, $25.5 million and
    $11.6 million of joint interest billing receivables at December 31, 2002,
    2001 and 2000. Because the Company tracks its joint interest receivables by
    joint interest partner and not by property, the Company is unable to
    allocate joint interest receivables to its three divisions.

16. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF SUBSIDIARY GUARANTORS:

     On November 5, 2001 the Company completed a private placement of the 8 1/4%
Senior Subordinated Notes due 2011 (see Note 8). The 8 1/4% Senior Subordinated
Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a
senior subordinated unsecured basis by the following wholly-owned subsidiaries
of Westport: Westport Finance Co., Jerry Chambers Exploration Company, Westport
Argentina LLC, Westport Canada LLC, Westport Oil and Gas Company, L.P., Horse
Creek Trading & Compression Company LLC, Westport Field Services, LLC, Westport
Overriding Royalty LLC, WHG, Inc. and WHL, Inc. (collectively, the "Subsidiary
Guarantors"). The guarantees of the Subsidiary Guarantors are subordinated to
senior debt of the Subsidiary Guarantors.

     Presented below are condensed consolidating financial statements for
Westport and the Subsidiary Guarantors.

                                       F-30
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET
                               DECEMBER 31, 2002

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                PARENT     SUBSIDIARY
                                               COMPANY     GUARANTORS   ELIMINATIONS   CONSOLIDATED
                                              ----------   ----------   ------------   ------------
                                                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                           <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>
                                              ASSETS
Current Assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................  $    2,581   $   40,180   $        --     $   42,761
  Accounts receivable, net..................      27,880       45,669            --         73,549
  Intercompany receivable...................   1,475,393           --    (1,475,393)            --
  Derivative assets.........................      14,861           --            --         14,861
  Prepaid expenses..........................       7,922        5,436            --         13,358
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
          Total current assets..............   1,528,637       91,285    (1,475,393)       144,529
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
Property and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, successful efforts
     method:
     Proved properties......................     339,947    1,837,709            --      2,177,656
     Unproved properties....................      29,252       75,178            --        104,430
  Building and other office furniture and
     equipment..............................         620        9,066            --          9,686
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
                                                 369,819    1,921,953            --      2,291,772
  Less accumulated depletion, depreciation
     and amortization.......................    (131,946)    (353,383)           --       (485,329)
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
          Net property and equipment........     237,873    1,568,570            --      1,806,443
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
Other Assets:
  Long-term derivative assets...............      14,824           --            --         14,824
  Goodwill..................................          --      246,712            --        246,712
  Other assets..............................      21,033           --            --         21,033
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
          Total other assets................      35,857      246,712            --        282,569
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
          Total assets......................  $1,802,367   $1,906,567   $(1,475,393)    $2,233,541
                                              ==========   ==========   ===========     ==========
                               LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current Liabilities:
  Accounts payable..........................  $   15,301   $   35,857   $        --     $   51,158
  Accrued expenses..........................      23,354       15,855            --         39,209
  Ad valorem taxes payable..................          (2)       8,990            --          8,988
  Intercompany payable......................          --    1,475,393    (1,475,393)            --
  Derivative liabilities....................      56,156           --            --         56,156
  Income taxes payable......................          --           86            --             86
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
          Total current liabilities.........      94,809    1,536,181    (1,475,393)       155,597
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
Long-term debt..............................     799,358           --            --        799,358
Deferred income taxes.......................     (13,361)     137,891            --        124,530
Long-term derivative liabilities............      21,305           --            --         21,305
Other liabilities...........................          --          745            --            745
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
          Total liabilities.................     902,111    1,674,817    (1,475,393)     1,101,535
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
Stockholders' equity
  Preferred stock...........................          29           --            --             29
  Common stock..............................         668            3            (3)           668
  Additional paid-in capital................     951,189      199,153             3      1,150,345
  Treasury stock............................        (469)          --            --           (469)
  Retained earnings.........................     (32,753)      32,755            --              2
  Accumulated other comprehensive income....     (18,408)        (161)           --        (18,569)
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
          Total stockholders' equity........     900,256      231,750            --      1,132,006
                                              ----------   ----------   -----------     ----------
          Total liabilities and
            stockholders' equity............  $1,802,367   $1,906,567   $(1,475,393)    $2,233,541
                                              ==========   ==========   ===========     ==========
</Table>

                                       F-31
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                   PARENT    SUBSIDIARY
                                                  COMPANY    GUARANTORS   ELIMINATIONS   CONSOLIDATED
                                                  --------   ----------   ------------   ------------
                                                                    (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                               <C>        <C>          <C>            <C>
Operating revenues:
  Oil and natural gas sales.....................  $ 82,136    $347,124       $  --         $429,260
  Hedge settlements.............................    (1,276)         --          --           (1,276)
  Non-hedge settlements.........................       822          --          --              822
  Non-hedge change in fair value of
     derivatives................................   (26,723)         --          --          (26,723)
  Gain (loss) on sale of operating assets,
     net........................................       276      (1,961)         --           (1,685)
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
          Net revenues..........................    55,235     345,163          --          400,398
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
Operating expenses:
  Lease operating expense.......................    12,748      76,580          --           89,328
  Production taxes..............................         5      23,949          --           23,954
  Transportation costs..........................       317       8,474          --            8,791
  Exploration...................................    21,689      10,701          --           32,390
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization......    48,847     154,246          --          203,093
  Impairment of proved properties...............        --      19,700          --           19,700
  Impairment of unproved properties.............     3,046       6,915          --            9,961
  Stock compensation expense....................     4,608          --          --            4,608
  General and administrative....................     6,046      17,583          --           23,629
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
          Total operating expenses..............    97,306     318,148          --          415,454
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
          Operating income......................   (42,071)     27,015          --          (15,056)
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
Other income (expense):
  Interest expense..............................   (34,607)       (229)         --          (34,836)
  Interest income...............................       172         374          --              546
  Change in interest rate swap fair value.......        --         226          --              226
  Other.........................................       579         423          --            1,002
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
Income (loss) before income taxes...............   (75,927)     27,809          --          (48,118)
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
Provision for income taxes:
  Current.......................................        --       2,094          --            2,094
  Deferred......................................    27,609     (10,151)         --           17,458
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
          Total provision for income taxes......    27,609      (8,057)         --           19,552
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
Net income (loss)...............................   (48,318)     19,752          --          (28,566)
Preferred stock dividends.......................     4,762          --          --            4,762
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
Net income (loss) available to common
  stockholders..................................  $(53,080)   $ 19,752       $  --         $(33,328)
                                                  ========    ========       =====         ========
</Table>

                                       F-32
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                 PARENT     SUBSIDIARY
                                                 COMPANY    GUARANTORS   ELIMINATIONS   CONSOLIDATED
                                                ---------   ----------   ------------   ------------
                                                                   (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                             <C>         <C>          <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income (loss)...........................  $ (48,318)  $  19,752     $      --      $ (28,566)
  Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss)
     to net cash provided by operating
     activities:
     Depletion, depreciation and
       amortization...........................     48,847     154,246            --        203,093
     Exploration dry hole costs...............     13,955       5,591            --         19,546
     Impairment of proved properties..........         --      19,700            --         19,700
     Impairment of unproved properties........      3,046       6,915            --          9,961
     Deferred income taxes....................    (27,609)     10,151            --        (17,458)
     Stock compensation expense...............      4,608          --            --          4,608
     Change in derivative fair value..........     27,475          --            --         27,475
     Amortization of finance fees.............      2,438          --            --          2,438
     Changes in asset and liabilities, net of
       effects of loss (gain) on sale of
       assets.................................       (276)      1,961            --          1,685
     Other....................................       (274)         --            --           (274)
     Changes in asset and liabilities, net of
       effects of acquisitions:
       Decrease (increase) in accounts
          receivable..........................     (9,194)      6,285            --         (2,909)
       Decrease in prepaid expenses...........     (5,575)        544            --         (5,031)
       Decrease in net derivative
          liabilities.........................    (10,388)         --            --        (10,388)
       Increase (decrease) in accounts
          payable.............................     (3,405)     (3,168)           --         (6,573)
       Decrease in ad valorem taxes payable...         (2)       (849)           --           (851)
       Increase in income taxes payable.......        248        (725)           --           (477)
       Increase (decrease) in accrued
          expenses............................      2,782       5,323            --          8,105
       Decrease in other liabilities..........         --        (887)           --           (887)
                                                ---------   ---------     ---------      ---------
          Net cash provided by operating
            activities........................     (1,642)    224,839            --        223,197
                                                ---------   ---------     ---------      ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Additions to property and equipment.........    (68,928)    (78,684)           --       (147,612)
  Proceeds from sales of assets...............        750      12,561            --         13,311
  Increase in intercompany receivable.........   (547,479)         --       547,479             --
  Other acquisitions..........................       (328)   (679,562)           --       (679,890)
  Other.......................................         --          28            --             28
                                                ---------   ---------     ---------      ---------
          Net cash used in investing
            activities........................   (615,985)   (745,657)      547,479       (814,163)
                                                ---------   ---------     ---------      ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from issuance of common stock......    267,787          --            --        267,787
  Repurchase of common stock..................        (61)         --            --            (61)
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt....    639,000          --            --        639,000
  Repayment of long-term debt.................   (285,000)         --            --       (285,000)
  Preferred stock dividend....................     (4,762)         --            --         (4,762)
  Gain in interest rate swap cancellation.....      3,705          --            --          3,705
  Financing fees..............................    (14,273)         --            --        (14,273)
  Increase in intercompany payable............         --     547,479      (547,479)            --
                                                ---------   ---------     ---------      ---------
          Net cash provided by (used in)
            financing activities..............    606,396     547,479      (547,479)       606,396
                                                ---------   ---------     ---------      ---------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents.....    (11,231)     26,661            --         15,430
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash.......         --        (253)           --           (253)
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of
  year........................................     13,812      13,772            --         27,584
                                                ---------   ---------     ---------      ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year........  $   2,581   $  40,180     $      --      $  42,761
                                                =========   =========     =========      =========
</Table>

                                       F-33
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                     CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET
                               DECEMBER 31, 2001

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                 PARENT     SUBSIDIARY
                                                COMPANY     GUARANTORS   ELIMINATIONS   CONSOLIDATED
                                               ----------   ----------   ------------   ------------
                                                                  (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                            <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>
                                               ASSETS
Current Assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents..................  $   13,812   $   13,772    $      --      $   27,584
  Accounts receivable, net...................      18,687       43,121           --          61,808
  Intercompany receivable....................     919,727           --     (919,727)             --
  Derivative assets..........................          --        7,832           --           7,832
  Prepaid expenses...........................       2,345        3,129           --           5,474
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
       Total current assets..................     954,571       67,854     (919,727)        102,698
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
Property and equipment, at cost:
  Oil and gas properties, successful efforts
     method:
     Proved properties.......................     281,868    1,164,463           --       1,446,331
     Unproved properties.....................      23,978       81,561           --         105,539
  Office building, furniture and equipment...         487        7,612           --           8,099
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
                                                  306,333    1,253,636           --       1,559,969
Less accumulated depletion, depreciation and
  amortization...............................     (83,016)    (200,749)          --        (283,765)
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
       Net property and equipment............     223,317    1,052,887           --       1,276,204
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
Other assets:
  Long-term derivative assets................          --          612           --             612
  Goodwill...................................          --      214,844           --         214,844
  Other assets...............................       9,830           28           --           9,858
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
       Total other assets....................       9,830      215,484           --         225,314
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
       Total assets..........................  $1,187,718   $1,336,225    $(919,727)     $1,604,216
                                               ==========   ==========    =========      ==========
                                LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current Liabilities:
  Accounts payable...........................  $   14,254   $   33,647    $      --      $   47,901
  Accrued expenses...........................       8,840       21,454           --          30,294
  Ad valorem taxes payable...................          --        6,930           --           6,930
  Intercompany payable.......................          --      919,727     (919,727)             --
  Derivative liabilities.....................          --        3,289           --           3,289
  Income taxes payable.......................        (131)         681           --             550
  Other current liabilities..................          --          369           --             369
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
       Total current liabilities.............      22,963      986,097     (919,727)         89,333
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
Long-term debt...............................     429,224           --           --         429,224
Deferred income taxes........................      31,053      126,952           --         158,005
Long-term derivative liabilities.............       5,205          751           --           5,956
Other liabilities............................          --        1,402           --           1,402
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
       Total liabilities.....................     488,445    1,115,202     (919,727)        683,920
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock............................          29           --           --              29
  Common stock...............................         521            3           (3)            521
  Additional paid-in capital.................     678,804      199,153            3         877,960
  Treasury stock.............................        (408)          --           --            (408)
  Retained earnings (accumulated deficit)....      20,327       13,003           --          33,330
  Accumulated other comprehensive income.....          --        8,864           --           8,864
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
       Total stockholders' equity............     699,273      221,023           --         920,296
                                               ----------   ----------    ---------      ----------
       Total liabilities and stockholders'
          equity.............................  $1,187,718   $1,336,225    $(919,727)     $1,604,216
                                               ==========   ==========    =========      ==========
</Table>

                                       F-34
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                   PARENT    SUBSIDIARY
                                                   COMPANY   GUARANTORS   ELIMINATIONS   CONSOLIDATED
                                                   -------   ----------   ------------   ------------
                                                                     (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                <C>       <C>          <C>            <C>
Operating revenues:
  Oil and natural gas sales......................  $90,954    $226,324      $     --       $317,278
  Hedge settlements..............................       --       2,091            --          2,091
  Non-hedge settlements..........................       --      15,300            --         15,300
  Non-hedge change in fair value of
     derivatives.................................       --      14,323            --         14,323
  Gain (loss) on sale of operating assets, net...     (304)        172            --           (132)
                                                   -------    --------      --------       --------
     Net revenues................................   90,650     258,210            --        348,860
Operating expenses:
  Lease operating expense........................    7,879      47,436            --         55,315
  Production taxes...............................        8      13,399            --         13,407
  Transportation costs...........................      421       4,736            --          5,157
  Exploration....................................   24,393       6,920            --         31,313
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization.......   43,044      81,015            --        124,059
  Impairment of proved properties................      612       8,811            --          9,423
  Impairment of unproved properties..............    5,562       1,412            --          6,974
  Stock compensation expense.....................      719          --            --            719
  General and administrative.....................    6,410      11,268            --         17,678
                                                   -------    --------      --------       --------
     Total operating expenses....................   89,048     174,997            --        264,045
                                                   -------    --------      --------       --------
     Operating income............................    1,602      83,213            --         84,815
                                                   -------    --------      --------       --------
Other income (expense):
  Interest expense...............................   (6,990)     (6,206)           --        (13,196)
  Interest income................................    1,159         509            --          1,668
  Change in interest rate swap fair value........       --       4,960                        4,960
  Other..........................................      163          48            --            211
                                                   -------    --------      --------       --------
Income (loss) before income taxes................   (4,066)     82,524            --         78,458
                                                   -------    --------      --------       --------
Provision for income taxes:
  Current........................................       --      (2,006)           --         (2,006)
  Deferred.......................................    1,547     (28,178)           --        (26,631)
                                                   -------    --------      --------       --------
     Total provision for income taxes............    1,547     (30,184)           --        (28,637)
                                                   -------    --------      --------       --------
Net income (loss)................................   (2,519)     52,340            --         49,821
Preferred stock dividends........................    1,587          --            --          1,587
                                                   -------    --------      --------       --------
Net income (loss) available to common
  stockholders...................................  $(4,106)   $ 52,340      $     --       $ 48,234
                                                   =======    ========      ========       ========
</Table>

                                       F-35
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                 PARENT     SUBSIDIARY
                                                 COMPANY    GUARANTORS    ELIMINATIONS   CONSOLIDATED
                                                ---------   -----------   ------------   ------------
                                                                   (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                             <C>         <C>           <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income..................................  $  (2,519)   $  52,340      $     --      $  49,821
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net
     cash provided by operating activities:
     Depletion, depreciation and
       amortization...........................     43,044       81,015            --        124,059
     Exploration dry hole costs...............     14,183        5,090            --         19,273
     Impairment of proved properties..........        612        8,811            --          9,423
     Impairment of unproved properties........      5,562        1,412            --          6,974
     Stock compensation expense...............        719           --            --            719
     Change in derivative fair value..........         --      (19,283)           --        (19,283)
     Loss (gain) on sale of assets............        304         (172)           --            132
     Deferred income taxes....................     (1,547)      28,178            --         26,631
     Amortization of finance fees.............        323          112            --            435
     Changes in asset and liabilities, net of
       effects of acquisitions:
       Decrease (increase) in accounts
          receivable..........................     (4,283)      14,409            --         10,126
       Decrease in prepaid expenses...........        797          254            --          1,051
       Decrease in net derivative
          liabilities.........................         --      (18,285)           --        (18,285)
       Increase (decrease) in accounts
          payable.............................      7,193      (13,433)           --         (6,240)
       Increase (decrease) in accrued
          expenses............................     (5,982)      (2,492)           --         (8,474)
       Increase in ad valorem taxes payable...         --       (1,130)           --         (1,130)
       Increase in income taxes payable.......         --          301            --            301
       Decrease in other liabilities..........         --         (260)           --           (260)
                                                ---------    ---------      --------      ---------
          Net cash provided by operating
            activities........................     58,406      136,867            --        195,273
                                                ---------    ---------      --------      ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Additions to property and equipment.........    (76,083)    (111,842)           --       (187,925)
  Proceeds from sales of assets...............        161        5,375            --          5,536
  Other acquisitions..........................         --       (6,319)           --         (6,319)
  Increase in intercompany receivable.........     18,340           --       (18,340)            --
  Other.......................................         --           22            --             22
                                                ---------    ---------      --------      ---------
          Net cash used in investing
            activities........................    (57,582)    (112,764)      (18,340)      (188,686)
                                                ---------    ---------      --------      ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from issuance of common stock......        576           --            --            576
  Repurchase of common stock..................       (408)          --            --           (408)
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt....    590,000           --            --        590,000
  Repayment of long-term debt.................   (577,898)         313            --       (577,585)
  Preferred stock dividend....................     (1,587)          --            --         (1,587)
  Financing fees..............................    (10,153)          --            --        (10,153)
  Increase in intercompany payable............         --      (18,340)       18,340             --
                                                ---------    ---------      --------      ---------
          Net cash provided by (used in)
            financing activities..............        530      (18,027)       18,340            843
                                                ---------    ---------      --------      ---------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents.....      1,354        6,076            --          7,430
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of
  year........................................     12,458        7,696            --         20,154
                                                ---------    ---------      --------      ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year........  $  13,812    $  13,772      $     --      $  27,584
                                                =========    =========      ========      =========
</Table>

                                       F-36
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                   PARENT    SUBSIDIARY
                                                  COMPANY    GUARANTORS   ELIMINATIONS   CONSOLIDATED
                                                  --------   ----------   ------------   ------------
                                                                    (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                               <C>        <C>          <C>            <C>
Operating revenues:
  Oil and natural gas sales.....................  $ 95,336    $149,333       $  --         $244,669
  Hedge settlements.............................        --     (24,627)         --          (24,627)
  Non-hedge change in fair value of
     derivatives................................        --        (739)         --             (739)
  Gain (loss) on sale of operating assets,
     net........................................        --       3,130          --            3,130
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
     Net revenues...............................    95,336     127,097          --          222,433
Operating expenses:
  Lease operating expense.......................     6,530      27,867          --           34,397
  Production taxes..............................        15      10,616          --           10,631
  Transportation costs..........................       384       2,650          --            3,034
  Exploration...................................     6,768       6,022          --           12,790
  Depletion, depreciation and amortization......    36,744      28,112          --           64,856
  Impairment of proved properties...............        --       2,911          --            2,911
  Impairment of unproved properties.............        --       5,124          --            5,124
  Stock compensation expense....................     2,156       3,383          --            5,539
  General and administrative....................     3,383       4,159          --            7,542
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
     Total operating expenses...................    55,980      90,844          --          146,824
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
     Operating income...........................    39,356      36,253          --           75,609
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
Other income (expense):
  Interest expense..............................    (2,257)     (7,474)         --           (9,731)
  Interest income...............................       416         814          --            1,230
  Other.........................................        76          76          --              152
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
Income before income taxes......................    37,591      29,669          --           67,260
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
Provision for income taxes:
  Current.......................................        --        (675)         --             (675)
  Deferred......................................   (13,156)     (9,893)         --          (23,049)
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
     Total provision for income taxes...........   (13,156)    (10,568)         --          (23,724)
                                                  --------    --------       -----         --------
Net income......................................  $ 24,435    $ 19,101       $  --         $ 43,536
                                                  ========    ========       =====         ========
</Table>

                                       F-37
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

                CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              SUBSIDIARY
                                             PARENT COMPANY   GUARANTORS   ELIMINATIONS   CONSOLIDATED
                                             --------------   ----------   ------------   ------------
                                                                  (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                          <C>              <C>          <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income...............................    $  24,435      $  19,101      $     --      $  43,536
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to
     net cash provided by operating
     activities:
     Depletion, depreciation and
       amortization........................       36,744         28,112            --         64,856
     Exploration dry hole costs............        1,564          4,456            --          6,020
     Impairment of proved properties.......           --          2,911            --          2,911
     Impairment of unproved properties.....           --          5,124            --          5,124
     Stock compensation expense............        2,156             --            --          2,156
     Gain on sale of assets................           --         (3,130)           --         (3,130)
     Deferred income taxes.................       13,156          9,893            --         23,049
     Director retainers settled for
       stock...............................           50             --            --             50
     Changes in asset and liabilities, net
       of effects of acquisitions:
       Increase in accounts receivable.....       (8,527)       (20,151)           --        (28,678)
       Decrease (increase) in prepaid
          expenses.........................       (1,256)           117            --         (1,139)
       Increase in accounts payable........        4,926         13,004            --         17,930
       Decrease in accrued expenses........        7,584          2,038            --          9,622
       Increase in ad valorem taxes
          payable..........................           --          2,183            --          2,183
       Increase in income taxes payable....           --            375            --            375
       Decrease in other liabilities.......           --         (1,436)           --         (1,436)
                                               ---------      ---------      --------      ---------
          Net cash provided by operating
            activities.....................       80,832         62,597            --        143,429
                                               ---------      ---------      --------      ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Additions to property and equipment......      (32,676)       (69,553)           --       (102,229)
  Proceeds from sales of assets............           --          6,259            --          6,259
  Merger with EPGC.........................      (42,403)            --            --        (42,403)
  Other acquisitions.......................           --         (1,454)           --         (1,454)
  Increase in intercompany receivable......      (97,347)            --        97,347             --
  Other....................................           --           (342)           --           (342)
                                               ---------      ---------      --------      ---------
          Net cash used in investing
            activities.....................     (172,426)       (65,090)       97,347       (140,169)
                                               ---------      ---------      --------      ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from issuance of common stock...      104,052             --            --        104,052
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term
     debt..................................       50,000             --            --         50,000
  Repayment of long-term debt..............      (50,000)      (106,633)           --       (156,633)
  Increase in intercompany payable.........           --         97,347       (97,347)            --
                                               ---------      ---------      --------      ---------
          Net cash provided by (used in)
            financing activities...........      104,052         (9,286)      (97,347)        (2,581)
                                               ---------      ---------      --------      ---------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash
  equivalents..............................       12,458        (11,779)           --            679
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of
  year.....................................           --         19,475            --         19,475
                                               ---------      ---------      --------      ---------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year.....    $  12,458      $   7,696      $     --      $  20,154
                                               =========      =========      ========      =========
</Table>

                                       F-38
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

17. SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION RELATED TO OIL AND GAS ACTIVITIES

     The following tables set forth certain historical costs and costs incurred
related to the Company's oil and natural gas producing activities:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                     FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                   -----------------------------------
                                                      2002         2001        2000
                                                   ----------   ----------   ---------
                                                             (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                                <C>          <C>          <C>
Capitalized costs
  Proved oil and natural gas properties..........  $2,177,656   $1,446,331   $ 591,367
  Unproved oil and natural gas properties........     104,430      105,539      40,653
                                                   ----------   ----------   ---------
       Total oil and natural gas properties......   2,282,086    1,551,870     632,020
  Less: Accumulated depletion, depreciation and
     amortization................................    (481,396)    (280,737)   (155,752)
                                                   ----------   ----------   ---------
       Net capitalized costs.....................  $1,800,690   $1,271,133   $ 476,268
                                                   ==========   ==========   =========
Costs incurred
  Proved property acquisition costs..............  $  657,826   $  706,811   $ 182,944
  Unproved property acquisition costs............      30,051       76,401      31,821
  Exploration costs..............................      35,198       60,704      34,622
  Development costs..............................     103,045      115,563      58,958
                                                   ----------   ----------   ---------
       Total.....................................  $  826,120   $  959,479   $ 308,345
                                                   ==========   ==========   =========
</Table>

  OIL AND GAS RESERVE INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

     The following summarizes the policies used by the Company in preparing the
accompanying oil and natural gas reserve disclosures, Standardized Measure of
Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves and
reconciliation of such Standardized Measure between years.

     Estimated quantities of the Company's oil and gas reserves and the net
present value of such reserves as of December 31, 2002 are based upon reserve
reports prepared by Ryder Scott Company, L.P. and the Company's engineering
staff. Ryder Scott reports covered 81% of the total net present value of
estimates of total proved reserves, evaluating 58% and auditing 23%. The
internally generated report covered the remaining 19% of the net present value.
At December 31, 2001, Ryder Scott Company, L.P. audited 87% of the total net
present value of estimates of total proved reserves and the remaining 13% of net
present value of the reserves was unaudited. Estimates of total proved reserves
at December 31, 2000 were prepared by Ryder Scott and Netherland, Sewell and
Associates, Inc. and internal estimates. The Ryder Scott and Netherland Sewell
reports covered approximately 85% of the total net present value of the reserves
and the internally generated report covered the remaining 15% of the net present
value. Proved reserves are estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas
which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to
be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and
operating conditions. Proved developed reserves are proved reserves that can be
recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods.
Substantially all of the Company's oil and natural gas reserves are located in
the United States and the Gulf of Mexico.

     The Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows from proved
reserves was developed as follows:

          1. Estimates are made of quantities of proved reserves and the future
     periods during which they are expected to be produced based on year-end
     economic conditions.

          2. The estimated future cash flows from proved reserves were
     determined based on year-end prices held constant, except in those
     instances where fixed and determinable price escalations are included in
     existing contracts.

                                       F-39
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

          3. The future cash flows are reduced by estimated production costs and
     costs to develop and produce the proved reserves, all based on year-end
     economic conditions and by the estimated effect of future income taxes
     based on statutory income tax rates in effect at each year end, the
     Company's tax basis in its proved oil and natural gas properties and the
     effect of net operating loss, investment tax credit and other
     carryforwards.

     The Standardized Measure of discounted future net cash flows does not
purport to present, nor should it be interpreted to present, the fair value of
the Company's oil and natural gas reserves. An estimate of fair value would also
take into account, among other things, the recovery of reserves not presently
classified as proved, anticipated future changes in prices and costs and a
discount factor more representative of the time value of money and the risks
inherent in reserve estimates.

  QUANTITIES OF OIL AND GAS RESERVES (UNAUDITED)

     The following table presents estimates of the Company's net proved and
proved developed oil and gas reserves:

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                              OIL (MBLS)   GAS (MMCF)
                                                              ----------   ----------
<S>                                                           <C>          <C>
Proved reserves at December 31, 1999........................    32,750       119,338
  Revisions of previous estimates...........................     1,417        10,662
  Discoveries...............................................     3,135        33,445
  Purchase of minerals in place.............................     3,249       116,783
  Sales of minerals in place................................    (2,167)         (447)
  Production................................................    (3,584)      (34,316)
                                                                ------     ---------
Proved reserves at December 31, 2000........................    34,800       245,465
  Revisions of previous estimates...........................    (4,360)       (6,390)
  Discoveries...............................................     6,057        55,366
  Purchase of minerals in place.............................    37,576       283,783
  Sales of minerals in place................................      (488)       (1,599)
  Production................................................    (4,929)      (58,561)
                                                                ------     ---------
Proved reserves at December 31, 2001........................    68,656       518,064
  Revisions of previous estimates...........................     6,008       (15,754)
  Discoveries...............................................     3,082        39,936
  Purchase of minerals in place.............................    12,085       650,230
  Sales of minerals in place................................    (2,735)       (5,555)
  Production................................................    (7,927)      (82,346)
                                                                ------     ---------
Proved reserves at December 31, 2002........................    79,169     1,104,575
                                                                ======     =========
Proved developed reserves at December 31, 2000..............    28,673       185,354
                                                                ======     =========
Proved developed reserves at December 31, 2001..............    51,068       401,823
                                                                ======     =========
Proved developed reserves at December 31, 2002..............    60,576       676,365
                                                                ======     =========
</Table>

                                       F-40
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS RELATING TO PROVED
  OIL AND GAS RESERVES (UNAUDITED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                            DECEMBER 31,
                                              -----------------------------------------
                                                 2002            2001           2000
                                              -----------     ----------     ----------
                                                           (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                           <C>             <C>            <C>
Future cash flows...........................  $ 6,627,844     $2,543,696     $2,993,022
Future production costs.....................   (1,928,788)      (841,940)      (546,358)
Future development costs....................     (474,447)      (216,708)      (119,415)
                                              -----------     ----------     ----------
Future net cash flows before tax............    4,224,609      1,485,048      2,327,249
Future income taxes.........................   (1,123,508)      (306,261)      (691,048)
                                              -----------     ----------     ----------
Future net cash flows after tax.............    3,101,101      1,178,787      1,636,201
Annual discount at 10%......................   (1,334,650)      (431,758)      (537,802)
                                              -----------     ----------     ----------
Standardized measure of discounted future
  net cash flows............................  $ 1,766,451     $  747,029     $1,098,399
                                              ===========     ==========     ==========
Discounted future net cash flows before
  income taxes..............................  $ 2,405,818(1)  $  924,343(2)  $1,570,892
                                              ===========     ==========     ==========
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) The difference in the discounted future net cash flows before income taxes
    from December 31, 2001 to December 31, 2002 resulted almost entirely from
    (i) the addition of 722.7 Bcfe of proved reserves due to acquisitions, (ii)
    the addition of 58.4 Bcfe as discoveries and extension and (iii) the upward
    revision of 20 Bcfe due to revisions of previous estimates and (iv) the
    change in commodity prices used to determine future cash flows.

(2) The difference in the discounted future net cash flows before income taxes
    from December 31, 2000 to December 31, 2001 resulted almost entirely from
    (i) the addition of 502.7 Bcfe of proved reserves acquired in connection
    with the Merger, (ii) the addition of 92 Bcfe as discoveries and extension
    and (iii) the downward revision of 33 Bcfe due to revisions of previous
    estimates and (iv) the decrease in commodity prices used to determine future
    cash flows.

  CHANGES IN STANDARDIZED MEASURE OF DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS
  (UNAUDITED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                    FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                  ------------------------------------
                                                     2002         2001         2000
                                                  ----------   -----------   ---------
                                                             (IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                                               <C>          <C>           <C>
Oil and natural gas sales, net of production
  costs.........................................  $ (307,187)  $  (243,399)  $(196,608)
Net changes in anticipated prices and production
  costs.........................................     659,541    (1,179,511)    369,244
Extensions and discoveries, less related
  costs.........................................     125,262       139,078     228,685
Changes in estimated future development costs...     (32,309)      (10,284)    (15,807)
Previously estimated development costs
  incurred......................................      73,422        50,704      16,827
Net change in income taxes......................    (462,053)      295,179    (445,830)
Purchase of minerals in place...................     825,382       489,733     748,854
Sales of minerals in place......................     (12,024)       (8,466)     (3,205)
Accretion of discount...........................      92,434       157,089      34,910
Revision of quantity estimates..................      39,468       (35,347)     48,384
Changes in production rates and other...........      17,486        (6,146)     (9,490)
                                                  ----------   -----------   ---------
  Change in standardized measure................  $1,019,422   $  (351,370)  $ 775,964
                                                  ==========   ===========   =========
</Table>

                                       F-41
<PAGE>
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

18. SUPPLEMENTAL QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

<Table>
<Caption>
                                   FIRST      SECOND     THIRD      FOURTH
                                  QUARTER    QUARTER    QUARTER    QUARTER    FULL YEAR
                                  --------   --------   --------   --------   ---------
                                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
<S>                               <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
2002
Total revenues..................  $ 72,778   $111,331   $103,048   $113,241   $400,398
Gross profit(1).................    52,755     80,479     72,709     99,968    305,911
Net income (loss)...............   (19,473)     2,410      2,165    (13,668)   (28,566)
Net income (loss) available to
  common stock..................   (20,663)     1,219        974    (14,858)   (33,328)
Net income (loss) per share(2)
  Basic.........................     (0.40)      0.02       0.02      (0.27)     (0.63)
  Diluted.......................     (0.40)      0.02       0.02      (0.27)     (0.63)
2001
Total revenues..................  $ 97,102   $ 72,862   $ 86,545   $ 92,351   $348,860
Gross profit(1).................    79,542     54,576     50,830     60,542    245,490
Net income (loss)...............    34,032     16,657     11,760    (12,628)    49,821
Net income (loss) available to
  common stock..................    34,032     16,657     11,363    (13,818)    48,234
Net income per share(2)
  Basic.........................      0.89       0.43       0.26      (0.27)      1.11
  Diluted.......................      0.87       0.42       0.25      (0.27)      1.09
</Table>

- ---------------

(1) Gross profit is computed as the excess of oil and natural gas revenues,
    including hedge settlements over operating expenses. Operating expenses
    include lease operating expense, production taxes and transportation costs.

(2) The sum of the individual quarterly net income (loss) per share may not
    agree with year-to-date net income per share as each period's computation is
    based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
    period.

                                       F-42
<PAGE>

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT NO.                             EXHIBIT DESCRIPTION
- -----------                             -------------------
<S>           <C>   <C>
    1.1       --    Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2002, by and
                    among Westport, subsidiary guarantors party thereto and the
                    initial purchasers named therein (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 1 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-4 (Registration No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on
                    January 24, 2003).
    1.2       --    Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2002, by
                    and among Westport, Spindrift Partners, L.P., Spindrift
                    Investors (Bermuda) L.P., Global Natural Resources III and
                    Global Natural Resources III L.P. (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 1 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-3 (Registration No. 333-102281), filed with the SEC on
                    December 31, 2002).
    2.1       --    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 9, 2000, by
                    and among Westport Oil and Gas Company, Inc., Westport
                    Energy Corporation, Equitable Production Company, Equitable
                    Production (Gulf) Company and EPGC Merger Sub Corporation
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the
                    Registration Statement on Form S-1 of Westport Resources
                    Corporation, a Delaware corporation (Registration No.
                    333-40422), filed with the SEC on June 29, 2000).
    2.2       --    Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 8, 2001,
                    among Belco and Westport Resources Corporation, a Delaware
                    corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to
                    Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-4/A (Registration
                    No. 333-64320), filed with the SEC on July 24, 2001).
    2.3       --    Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated November 6, 2002, among
                    Westport and certain affiliates of El Paso Corporation
                    parties thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to
                    Westport's Current Report on Form 8-K/A, filed with the SEC
                    on December 27, 2002).
    3.1       --    Amended Articles of Incorporation of Westport (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Westport's Registration
                    Statement on Form 8-A/A, filed with the SEC on August 31,
                    2001).
    3.2       --    Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of Westport (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Westport's Registration
                    Statement on Form 8-A/A, filed with the SEC on August 31,
                    2001).
    4.1       --    Specimen Certificate for shares of Common Stock of Westport
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A, filed with the SEC on
                    August 31, 2001).
    4.2       --    Specimen Certificate for shares of 6 1/2% Convertible
                    Preferred Stock of Westport (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    8-A/A, filed with the SEC on August 31, 2001).
   *4.3       --    Third Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement dated
                    February 14, 2003 among Westport, ERI, Medicor Foundation,
                    WELLC and certain stockholders named therein.
    4.4       --    Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 17, 2002,
                    among Westport, subsidiary guarantors party thereto and the
                    initial purchasers named therein (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 4.6 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-4 (Registration No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on
                    January 24, 2003).
    4.5       --    Indenture, dated as of November 5, 2001, among Westport,
                    subsidiary guarantors from time to time party thereto and
                    The Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 4.4 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-4 (Registration No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on
                    January 18, 2002).
    4.6       --    First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 31, 2001,
                    among Westport, existing subsidiary guarantors party
                    thereto, new subsidiary guarantors named therein and The
                    Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.5 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                    (Registration No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on January
                    18, 2002).
    4.7       --    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 17,
                    2002, among Westport, existing subsidiary guarantors party
                    thereto, new subsidiary guarantors named therein and The
                    Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.9 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                    (Registration No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on January
                    24, 2003).
    4.8       --    Indenture, dated as of September 23, 1997, among Belco, as
                    issuer, and The Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Belco's Registration
                    Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-37125), filed
                    with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
</Table>
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT NO.                             EXHIBIT DESCRIPTION
- -----------                             -------------------
<S>           <C>   <C>
    4.9       --    Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 25, 1998 between
                    Coda Energy, Inc., Diamond Energy Operating Company, Electra
                    Resources, Inc., Belco Operating Corp., Belco Energy L.P.,
                    Gin Lane Company, Fortune Corp., BOG Wyoming LLC and Belco
                    Finance Co. (individually, the Subsidiary Guarantors), a
                    subsidiary of Belco, and The Bank of New York, a New York
                    banking corporation (as Trustee) amending the Indenture
                    filed as Exhibit 4.2 above (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.3 of Belco's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                    fiscal year ended December 31, 1997, filed with the SEC on
                    March 26, 1998).
    4.10      --    Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 21, 2001,
                    among Westport, certain subsidiary guarantors party thereto
                    and The Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by
                    reference to Exhibit 4.3 to Westport's Quarterly Report on
                    Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001, filed
                    with the SEC on November 14, 2001).
    4.11      --    Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 31, 2001,
                    among Westport, existing subsidiary guarantors party
                    thereto, new subsidiary guarantors named therein and The
                    Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.10 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-4 (Registration No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on
                    January 18, 2002).
    4.12      --    Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 17,
                    2002, among Westport, existing subsidiary guarantors, new
                    subsidiary guarantors and The Bank of New York, as trustee
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.14 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-102705), filed with the SEC on January 24, 2003).
    4.13      --    Certificate of Designations of 6 1/2% Convertible Preferred
                    Stock dated March 5, 1998 (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.1 of Belco's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed on
                    March 11, 1998).
    4.14      --    Form of 8 1/4% Note (contained in the Indenture listed as
                    Exhibit 4.4 above) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4
                    to Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                    (Registration No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on January
                    18, 2002).
    4.15      --    Form of 8 7/8% Note (contained in the Indenture listed as
                    Exhibit 4.8 above) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
                    to Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration
                    No. 333-37125), filed with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
    4.16      --    Form of Indenture for Senior Debt Securities (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Belco's Amendment No. 1 to
                    the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No.
                    333-42107), filed with the SEC on December 23, 1997).
    4.17      --    Form of Indenture for Subordinated Debt Securities
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Belco's
                    Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3
                    (Registration No. 333-42107), filed with the SEC on December
                    23, 1997).
   10.1       --    Credit Agreement, dated as of December 17, 2002, among
                    Westport, certain lenders from time to time party thereto,
                    Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation, as syndication
                    agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent and
                    issuing bank, certain documentation agents party thereto,
                    Wachovia Bank, N.A., as senior managing agent, and certain
                    managing agents named therein (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.1 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-4 (Registration No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on
                    January 24, 2003).
   10.2       --    Subsidiary Guarantee, dated as of December 17, 2002, by each
                    subsidiary guarantor party thereto in favor of JPMorgan
                    Chase Bank, as administrative agent for certain lenders and
                    creditors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
                    Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration
                    No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on January 24, 2003).
   10.3       --    Westport Resources Corporation 2000 Stock Incentive Plan, as
                    amended on August 21, 2001 (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 4.4 to Westport's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-8, filed with the SEC on August 31, 2001).
   10.4       --    Westport Resources Corporation Annual Incentive Plan 2000
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Old Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
                    333-40422), filed with the SEC on June 29, 2000).
   10.5       --    Employment Agreement, effective as of April 1, 2002, between
                    Westport and Donald D. Wolf (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.1 to Westport's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                    the quarter ended March 31, 2002, filed with the SEC on May
                    13, 2002).
   10.6       --    Employment Agreement, effective as of April 1, 2002, between
                    Westport and Barth E. Whitham (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.2 to Westport's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                    the quarter ended March 31, 2002, filed with the SEC on May
                    13, 2002).
</Table>
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT NO.                             EXHIBIT DESCRIPTION
- -----------                             -------------------
<S>           <C>   <C>
   10.7       --    Form of Indemnification Agreement between Westport and its
                    officers and directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.1 to Westport's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                    quarter ended June 30, 2002, filed with the SEC on August
                    14, 2002).
   10.8       --    Belco Oil & Gas Corp. 1996 Nonemployee Directors' Stock
                    Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
                    Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
                    333-1034), filed with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
   10.9       --    First Amendment to Belco Oil & Gas Corp. 1996 Nonemployee
                    Directors' Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.1 of Belco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                    the quarter ended June 30, 1999, filed with the SEC on
                    August 13, 1999).
   10.10      --    Belco Oil & Gas Corp. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Belco's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
                    333-1034), filed with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
   10.11      --    First Amendment to Belco Oil & Gas Corp. 1996 Stock
                    Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
                    Belco's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                    June 30, 2000, filed with the SEC on August 14, 2000).
   10.12      --    Form of Indemnification Agreement between Belco and its
                    officers and directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.6 of Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                    (Registration No. 333-1034), filed with the SEC on February
                    6, 1996).
   10.13      --    Belco Oil & Gas Corp. Retention and Severance Benefit Plan
                    dated June 8, 2001 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                    10.18 to Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-4/A
                    (Registration No. 333-64320), filed with the SEC on July 24,
                    2001).
   10.14      --    Amended and Restated Well Participation Letter Agreement
                    dated as of December 31, 1992 between Chesapeake Operating,
                    Inc. and Belco, as amended by (i) Letter Agreement dated
                    April 14, 1983, (ii) Amendment dated December 31, 1993, and
                    (iii) Third Amendment dated December 30, 1994 (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of Belco's Registration
                    Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-1034), filed
                    with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
   10.15      --    Sale Agreement (Independence) dated as of June 10, 1994
                    between Chesapeake Operating, Inc. and Belco (incorporated
                    by reference to Exhibit 10.10 of Belco's Registration
                    Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-1034), filed
                    with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
   10.16      --    Sale and Area of Mutual Interest Agreement (Greater
                    Giddings) dated as of December 30, 1994 between Chesapeake
                    Operating, Inc. and Belco (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.12 of Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                    (Registration No. 333-1034), filed with the SEC on February
                    6, 1996).
   10.17      --    Golden Trend Area of Mutual Interest Agreement dated as of
                    December 17, 1992 between Chesapeake Operating, Inc. and
                    Belco (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of Belco's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No.
                    333-1034), filed with the SEC on February 6, 1996).
   10.18      --    Form of Participation Agreement for Belco Oil & Gas Corp.
                    1992 Moxa Arch Drilling Program (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 10.15 of Belco's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-1 (Registration No. 333-1034), filed with the SEC on
                    February 6, 1996).
   10.19      --    Form of Offset Participation Agreement to the Moxa Arch 1992
                    Offset Drilling Program (incorporated by reference to
                    Exhibit 10.16 of Belco's Registration Statement on Form S-1
                    (Registration No. 333-1034), filed with the SEC on February
                    6, 1996).
   10.20      --    Form of Participation Agreement for Belco Oil & Gas Corp.
                    1993 Moxa Arch Drilling Program (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 10.17 of Belco's Registration Statement on Form
                    S-1 (Registration No. 333-1034), filed with the SEC on
                    February 6, 1996).
   10.21      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Grant W. Henderson
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
   10.22      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Lon McCain
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.25 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
   10.23      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Kenneth D.
                    Anderson (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to
                    Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration
                    No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
</Table>
<PAGE>

<Table>
<Caption>
EXHIBIT NO.                             EXHIBIT DESCRIPTION
- -----------                             -------------------
<S>           <C>   <C>
   10.24      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Lynn S. Belcher
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
   10.25      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Brian K. Bess
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
   10.26      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Howard L. Boigon
                    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to Westport's
                    Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No.
                    333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
   10.27      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of December 1, 2001, between Westport and Robert R. McBride,
                    Jr. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to
                    Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration
                    No. 333-77060), filed with the SEC on January 18, 2002).
  *10.28      --    Change in Control Severance Protection Agreement, dated as
                    of February 1, 2003, between Westport and Carter Mathies.
   21         --    List of Subsidiaries of Westport (incorporated by reference
                    to Exhibit 21 Westport's Registration Statement on Form S-4
                    (Registration No. 333-102705), filed with the SEC on January
                    24, 2003).
  *23.1       --    Consent of Independent Public Accountants, KPMG, LLP.
  *23.2       --    Consent of Ryder Scott Company.
  *23.3       --    Consent of Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.
  *24.1       --    Power of Attorney (included on the signature page of this
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K).
  *99.1       --    Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted
                    Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
                    of Chief Executive Officer of Westport.
  *99.2       --    Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted
                    Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,
                    of Chief Financial Officer of Westport.
</Table>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4.3
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>d03825exv4w3.txt
<DESCRIPTION>THIRD AMENDED/RESTATED SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                     EXHIBIT 4.3

================================================================================


                           THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED


                             SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT


                                  BY AND AMONG


                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

                              ERI INVESTMENTS, INC.

                               WESTPORT ENERGY LLC

                               MEDICOR FOUNDATION

                                       AND

                        CERTAIN STOCKHOLDERS NAMED HEREIN



                          DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 14, 2003


================================================================================




<PAGE>




                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

<Table>
<Caption>
                                                                                                                PAGE
                                                                                                                ----
<S>                                                                                                             <C>
ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS.............................................................................................2

         Section 1.1.      Definitions............................................................................2

ARTICLE II REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES.........................................................................6

         Section 2.1.      Representations and Warranties of the Company..........................................6
         Section 2.2.      Representations and Warranties of Medicor..............................................7
         Section 2.3.      Representations and Warranties of ERI..................................................7
         Section 2.4.      Representations and Warranties of the Belfer Group.....................................8

ARTICLE III CORPORATE GOVERNANCE; CERTAIN CORPORATE ACTIONS.......................................................8

         Section 3.1.      Voting of Shares.......................................................................8
         Section 3.2.      Composition of the Board of Directors..................................................9
         Section 3.3.      Approval of Major Actions.............................................................10
         Section 3.4.      Amendments to Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws....................................11
         Section 3.5.      Self-Interested Transactions..........................................................11

ARTICLE IV STANDSTILL............................................................................................12

         Section 4.1.      Standstill............................................................................12

ARTICLE V REGISTRATION RIGHTS....................................................................................13

         Section 5.1.      Demand Registrations..................................................................13
         Section 5.2.      Piggyback Registrations...............................................................15
         Section 5.3.      Holdback Agreements...................................................................16
         Section 5.4.      Registration Procedures...............................................................17
         Section 5.5.      Registration Expenses.................................................................19
         Section 5.6.      Indemnification.......................................................................20
         Section 5.7.      Participation in Underwritten Registrations...........................................22
         Section 5.8.      Current Public Information............................................................22
         Section 5.9.      Cooperation...........................................................................22

ARTICLE VI GENERAL PROVISIONS....................................................................................23

         Section 6.1.      Notices...............................................................................23
         Section 6.2.      Assignment; Binding Effect; Benefit...................................................25
         Section 6.3.      Entire Agreement......................................................................26
</Table>



                                      -i-

<PAGE>

<Table>
<S>                                                                                                             <C>
         Section 6.4.      Amendment.............................................................................26
         Section 6.5.      Governing Law; Jurisdiction...........................................................26
         Section 6.6.      Counterparts..........................................................................26
         Section 6.7.      Headings..............................................................................26
         Section 6.8.      Interpretation........................................................................26
         Section 6.9.      Incorporation of Exhibits and Schedules...............................................26
         Section 6.10.     Severability..........................................................................26
         Section 6.11.     Enforcement of Agreement..............................................................27
         Section 6.12.     Confidentiality.......................................................................27
         Section 6.13.     Termination...........................................................................27
         Section 6.14.     Belfer Group Representative...........................................................27
         Section 6.15.     Medicor Group Representative..........................................................28
         Section 6.16.     Effective Time........................................................................28
</Table>



                                      -ii-


<PAGE>
                           THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED
                             SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT

         This THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT, dated as of
February 14, 2003 (this "Agreement"), is entered into by and among Westport
Resources Corporation, a Nevada corporation ("Westport" or the "Company"),
Westport Energy LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("WELLC"), ERI
Investments, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("ERI"), Medicor Foundation, a
Liechtenstein foundation, formed pursuant to the Liechtenstein Persons and
Companies Act ("Medicor," and together with WELLC, the "Medicor Group") and the
persons and entities named on Exhibit A (each such person or entity, a "Belfer
Person," and collectively, the "Belfer Group").

         WHEREAS, Westport Oil and Gas Company, Inc. ("WOGC"), Equitable
Production Company ("EPC"), Equitable Production (Gulf) Company ("EPGC"),
Westport Energy Corporation ("WEC") and EPGC Merger Sub Corporation ("Merger
Sub") entered into a Merger Agreement dated as of March 9, 2000 (the "EPGC
Merger Agreement") providing for the merger of Merger Sub with and into WOGC and
for the conversion of the WOGC capital stock held by WEC into shares of EPGC
capital stock, such that immediately after the merger, EPC owned approximately
49% of the capital stock of EPGC and WEC owned approximately 51% of the capital
stock of EPGC (the "EPGC Merger"); and

         WHEREAS, as a condition to the consummation of the transactions
contemplated by the EPGC Merger Agreement, WEC, EPC and EPGC entered into that
certain Shareholders Agreement dated as of March 9, 2000 (the "Original
Shareholders Agreement"); and

         WHEREAS, subsequent to the EPGC Merger, EPC assigned its interest in
EPGC to ERI, WEC became WELLC by statutory conversion, and EPGC changed its name
to Westport Resources Corporation; and

         WHEREAS, Westport Resources Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Old
Westport") and Belco Oil & Gas Corp., a Nevada corporation ("Belco") entered
into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 8, 2001 (the "Merger
Agreement") providing for, among other things, the merger (the "Merger") of Old
Westport with and into Belco, with Belco as the surviving corporation, and for
the conversion of 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of Old Westport
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("Old Westport Common Stock") into Common
Stock (as hereinafter defined) and the automatic cancellation and retirement of
the Old Westport Common Stock; and

         WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution and delivery of the Merger
Agreement, Belco, Old Westport, WELLC, ERI and the Belfer Group (as then
comprised, the "Original Belfer Group") entered into an Amended and Restated
Shareholders Agreement (the "Amended Shareholders Agreement"), the purpose of
which was to amend and restate the Original Shareholders Agreement to reflect
the effects of the Merger by, among other things, (i) having it apply to the
shares of Common Stock issued to WELLC and ERI in connection with the Merger in
exchange for their Old Westport Common Stock and (ii) adding Belco and the
Original Belfer Group as parties; and


<PAGE>

         WHEREAS, Belco, Westport, WELLC, ERI and the Original Belfer Group
entered into a Second Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement dated as of
July 20, 2001 (the "Second Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement") to
effect certain modifications to the Amended Shareholders Agreement; and

         WHEREAS, subsequent to the Merger, Belco changed its name to Westport
Resources Corporation; and

         WHEREAS, WELLC has transferred certain of its shares of Common Stock to
Medicor; and

         WHEREAS, certain Persons in the Original Belfer Group have made various
Transfers to Permitted Transferees, changing the composition of the Original
Belfer Group; and

         WHEREAS, the purpose of this Agreement is to effect certain
modifications relating to the transfer of Common Stock by WELLC to Medicor,
certain Transfers to Permitted Transferees made by Persons in the Original
Belfer Group and to amend and restate such Second Amended and Restated
Shareholders Agreement, as so modified, in its entirety;

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and of the
representations, warranties, covenants and agreements contained herein, and for
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is
hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby
agree as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I
                                   DEFINITIONS

         Section 1.1. Definitions.

         "Affiliate" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 of the
regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act.

         "Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "Amended Shareholders Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in
the preamble to this Agreement.

         "Belco" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "Belfer Group" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "Belfer Group Representative" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 6.14.

         "Belfer Parties" shall mean the Belfer Group and their Permitted
Transferees.

         "Belfer Person" shall mean any Person included in the Belfer Group.

         "Board of Directors" shall mean the board of directors of the Company.



                                      -2-
<PAGE>

         "Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any
other Federal agency at the time administering the Securities Act.

         "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock of the Company, par value
$.01 per share, now or hereafter authorized to be issued.

         "Company" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "Consolidated Net Worth" shall mean, at any particular time, all
amounts which, in conformity with GAAP, would be included as common
stockholders' equity on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its
Subsidiaries.

         "Debt" shall mean (a) Funded Debt, plus (b) at any particular time, all
amounts which, in conformity with GAAP, would be included as preferred
stockholders' equity on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its
Subsidiaries less (c) cash of the Company and its Subsidiaries.

         "Demand Registrations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
5.l(a).

         "Director" shall mean a member of the Board of Directors.

         "Disinterested Director" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
3.5.

         "Effective Time" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.16.

         "EPC" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "EPGC" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "EPGC Merger" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "EPGC Merger Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the
preamble to this Agreement.

         "ERI" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "ERI Parties" shall mean ERI and its Permitted Transferees.

         "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, all as the
same shall be in effect at the time.

         "Funded Debt" shall mean at any time (without duplication): (a) all
obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or any of them, for borrowed
money and all obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or any of them,
evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures, or other similar instruments, (b) all
capital lease obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or any of them,
(c) all debt or other obligations of others guaranteed by the Company and its
Subsidiaries, or any of them to the extent of such guarantee, (d) all
reimbursement obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or any of them
(whether contingent or otherwise) in respect of



                                      -3-
<PAGE>

letters of credit, bankers' acceptances, surety or other bonds and similar
instruments, (e) all obligations of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or any of
them, to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade
accounts payable of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or any of them, arising in
the ordinary course of business that are not past due by more than ninety (90)
days, (f) all obligations secured by a lien existing on property owned by the
Company and its Subsidiaries, or any of them, whether or not the obligations
secured thereby have been assumed by the Company and its Subsidiaries, or any of
them, or are non-recourse to the credit of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or
any of them, and (g) all other debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries, or any
of them.

         "GAAP" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States.

         "Independent Director" shall mean an individual (i) who is not a
director, officer, employee or Affiliate of the Company, WELLC, Medicor, the
Belfer Group or ERI, or any of their respective Affiliates, (ii) who is not a
former director, officer or employee of the Company, Old Westport, WELLC,
Medicor, the Belfer Group or ERI, or any of their respective Affiliates, (iii)
who has not had and who is not a director, officer, 10% or more equity owner or
Affiliate of any Person that has had a direct or indirect interest in any
transaction in the preceding 24 months with the Company, Old Westport, WELLC,
Medicor, the Belfer Group or ERI, or any of their respective Affiliates, and
(iv) who does not represent the Company, WELLC, Medicor, the Belfer Group or
ERI, or any of their respective Affiliates, and any Independent Director
appointed shall be required to certify in writing to this effect upon request.

         "Major Actions" shall mean those actions described in Sections 3.3.

         "Medicor" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "Medicor Group" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to
this Agreement.

         "Medicor Group Representative" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 6.15.

         "Medicor Parties" shall mean the Medicor Group and their Permitted
Transferees.

         "Medicor Person" shall mean any Person included in the Medicor Group.

         "Merger" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "Merger Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to
this Agreement.

         "Merger Sub" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "Old Westport" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "Old Westport Common Stock" shall have the meaning set forth in the
preamble to this Agreement.



                                      -4-
<PAGE>

         "Original Belfer Group" shall have the meaning set forth in the
preamble to this Agreement.

         "Original Shareholders Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in
the preamble to this Agreement.

         "Party" or "Parties" shall mean ERI, the Medicor Group and/or the
Belfer Group.

         "Permitted Transferees" shall mean in the case of the Medicor Parties:
(A) a Medicor Person, any spouse, issue, parent or relatives of the Medicor
Parties, or (i) trusts for the benefit of any of such Persons, (ii) entities
controlling or controlled by any of such Persons and (iii) in the event of the
death of any such individual person, heirs or testamentary legatees of such
person, in each case to whom a Medicor Party has transferred its Shares and who
has agreed in writing to be bound by the terms of this Agreement, and (B) any
Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Medicor Group to which a Medicor Party has
transferred its Shares and which has agreed in writing to be bound by the terms
of this Agreement; in the case of the ERI Parties: (A) ERI, any spouse, issue,
parent or relatives of the ERI Parties, or (i) trusts for the benefit of any of
such Persons, (ii) entities controlling or controlled by any of such Persons and
(iii) in the event of the death of any such individual person, heirs or
testamentary legatees of such person, in each case to whom an ERI Party has
transferred its Shares and who has agreed in writing to be bound by the terms of
this Agreement, and (B) any Subsidiary or Affiliate of ERI to which an ERI Party
has transferred its Shares and which has agreed in writing to be bound by the
terms of this Agreement; and in the case of the Belfer Parties: a Belfer Person,
any spouse, issue, parent or relatives of the Belfer Parties, or (i) trusts for
the benefit of any of such Persons, (ii) entities controlling or controlled by
any of such Persons and (iii) in the event of the death of any such individual
person, heirs or testamentary legatees of such person, in each case to whom a
Belfer Party has transferred its Shares and who has agreed in writing to be
bound by the terms of this Agreement;

         "Person" shall mean any natural person, corporation, partnership,
limited liability company, firm, association, trust, government, governmental
agency or other entity, whether acting in an individual, fiduciary or other
capacity.

         "Piggyback Registration" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
5.2(a).

         "Registrable Securities" shall mean (i) any shares of Common Stock
owned by, or otherwise hereafter acquired by, the Medicor Parties, the ERI
Parties or the Belfer Parties, and (ii) any securities issued as a dividend on
or other distribution with respect to or in exchange, replacement or in
subdivision of, any such Common Stock. As to any particular Registrable
Securities, such securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities when (A) a
registration statement (other than the Form S-4 pursuant to which the issuance
of Common Stock in connection with the Merger is registered under the Securities
Act) with respect to the sale of such securities shall have been declared
effective under the Securities Act and such securities shall have been disposed
of in accordance with such registration statement, or (B) such securities shall
have been sold (other than in a privately negotiated sale) pursuant to Rule 144
(or any successor provision) under the Securities Act.



                                      -5-
<PAGE>

         "Registration Expenses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
5.5(a).

         "Second Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement" shall have the
meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.

         "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder, as the same shall be in
effect at the time.

         "Self-Interested Transaction" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3.5.

         "Shares" shall mean shares of Common Stock.

         "Short-Form Registrations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
5.l(a).

         "Subsidiary" of any Person shall mean any corporation or other legal
entity of which such Person (either alone or through or together with any other
Subsidiary) owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the stock or other
equity interests, the holders of which are generally entitled to vote for the
election of the board of directors or other governing body of such corporation
or other legal entity.

         "Supermajority Approval" shall mean approval by action of at least a
majority of all of the members of the Board of Directors which shall include not
less than one less than all of the Directors whom the Parties then have the
right to nominate pursuant to Section 3.2.

         "Total Capitalization" shall mean the sum of (i) Consolidated Net Worth
and (ii) Debt.

         "Transfer" shall mean to sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise
dispose.

         "underwriter" shall mean nationally recognized investment banking firm
with experience serving as lead managing underwriter for public offerings of the
stock of companies engaged in the exploration, development and production of oil
and natural gas.

         "WEC" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "WELLC" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "Westport" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

         "WOGC" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this
Agreement.

                                   ARTICLE II
                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

         Section 2.1. Representations and Warranties of the Company. The Company
hereby represents and warrants to the other Parties hereto as follows: The
Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to enter into this
Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. The execution
and delivery by the Company of this Agreement, and the consummation by the
Company of the transactions contemplated hereby, have been duly



                                      -6-
<PAGE>

authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of the Company. This
Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a
valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in
accordance with its terms. No consent, approval, order or authorization of, or
registration, declaration or filing with, any court, administrative agency or
commission or other governmental authority or instrumentality, domestic or
foreign, is required by, or with respect to, the Company in connection with the
execution and delivery of this Agreement by the Company or the consummation by
the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery
of this Agreement by the Company and the consummation of the transactions
contemplated hereby by the Company does not conflict with, or result in a breach
of, any law or regulation of any governmental authority applicable to the
Company or any material agreement to which the Company is a party.

         Section 2.2. Representations and Warranties of Medicor. Each Medicor
Person hereby severally and not jointly represents and warrants to the other
Parties hereto as follows:

                  (a) Authority. Each Medicor Person has all requisite corporate
or other power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to consummate the
transactions contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery by such Medicor
Person of this Agreement, and the consummation by such Medicor Person of the
transactions contemplated hereby, have been duly authorized by all necessary
corporate or other action on the part of such Medicor Person. This Agreement has
been duly executed and delivered by such Medicor Person and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of such Medicor Person enforceable against such Medicor
Person in accordance with its terms. No consent, approval, order or
authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any court,
administrative agency or commission or other governmental authority or
instrumentality, domestic or foreign, is required by, or with respect to, such
Medicor Person in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement
by such Medicor Person or the consummation by such Medicor Person of the
transactions contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery of this Agreement
by such Medicor Person and the consummation by such Medicor Person of the
transactions contemplated hereby by it do not conflict with, or result in a
breach of, any law or regulation of any governmental authority applicable to
such Medicor Person or any material agreement to which such Medicor Person is a
party.

                  (b) Shares. Schedule 2.2 sets forth the ownership of the
Shares held by each Medicor Person as of the date hereof.

         Section 2.3. Representations and Warranties of ERI. ERI hereby
represents and warrants to the other Parties hereto as follows:

                  (a) Authority. Each of the ERI Parties has all requisite
corporate or other power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to
consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery by
the ERI Parties of this Agreement and the consummation by the ERI Parties of the
transactions contemplated hereby have been duly authorized by all necessary
corporate or other action on the part of each of the ERI Parties. This Agreement
has been duly executed and delivered by each of the ERI Parties and constitutes
a valid and binding obligation of each of the ERI Parties enforceable against
each of the ERI Parties in accordance with its terms. No consent, approval,
order or authorization of, or



                                      -7-
<PAGE>

registration, declaration or filing with, any court, administrative agency or
commission or other governmental authority or instrumentality, domestic or
foreign, is required by, or with respect to, any of the ERI Parties in
connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the ERI Parties
or the consummation by each of the ERI Parties of the transactions contemplated
hereby. The execution and delivery by the ERI Parties of this Agreement and the
consummation by the ERI Parties of the transactions contemplated hereby do not
conflict with, or result in a breach of, any law or regulation of any
governmental authority applicable to any of the ERI Parties or any material
agreement to which any of the ERI Parties is a party.

                  (b) Shares. Schedule 2.3 sets forth the ownership of the
Shares held by the ERI Parties as of the date hereof.

         Section 2.4. Representations and Warranties of the Belfer Group. Each
Belfer Person hereby severally and not jointly represents and warrants to the
other Parties hereto as follows:

                  (a) Authority. Such Belfer Person has all requisite corporate
or other power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to consummate the
transactions contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery by such Belfer
Person of this Agreement, and the consummation by such Belfer Person of the
transactions contemplated hereby, have been duly authorized by all necessary
corporate or other action on the part of such Belfer Person. This Agreement has
been duly executed and delivered by such Belfer Person and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of such Belfer Person enforceable against such Belfer
Person in accordance with its terms. No consent, approval, order or
authorization of, or registration, declaration or filing with, any court,
administrative agency or commission or other governmental authority or
instrumentality, domestic or foreign, is required by, or with respect to, such
Belfer Person in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement by
such Belfer Person or the consummation by such Belfer Person of the transactions
contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by such Belfer
Person and the consummation by such Belfer Person of the transactions
contemplated hereby by it do not conflict with, or result in a breach of, any
law or regulation of any governmental authority applicable to such Belfer Person
or any material agreement to which such Belfer Person is a party.

                  (b) Shares. Schedule 2.4 sets forth the ownership of the
Shares held by each Belfer Person as of the date hereof.

                                  ARTICLE III
                 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE; CERTAIN CORPORATE ACTIONS

         Section 3.1. Voting of Shares.

                  (a) The Medicor Parties shall vote all shares of Common Stock
owned or controlled by them, and shall take all other necessary or desirable
actions within their control (including, without limitation, attendance at
meetings in person or by proxy for purposes of obtaining a quorum and execution
of written consents in lieu of meetings), to effectuate the provisions of this
Agreement.



                                      -8-
<PAGE>

                  (b) The ERI Parties shall vote all shares of Common Stock
owned or controlled by them, and shall take all other necessary or desirable
action within their control (including, without limitation, attendance at
meetings in person or by proxy for purposes of obtaining a quorum and execution
of written consents in lieu of meetings), to effectuate the provisions of this
Agreement.

                  (c) The Belfer Parties shall vote all shares of Common Stock
owned or controlled by them, and shall take all other necessary or desirable
action within their control (including, without limitation, attendance at
meetings in person or by proxy for purposes of obtaining a quorum and execution
of written consents in lieu of meetings), to effectuate the provisions of this
Agreement.

                  (d) The Company shall take all necessary or desirable actions
within its control (including, without limitation, calling special board and
stockholder meetings) to effectuate the provisions of this Agreement.

         Section 3.2. Composition of the Board of Directors. (i) The Medicor
Parties shall vote all shares of Common Stock owned or controlled by them, and
shall take all necessary action within their control, (ii) the ERI Parties shall
vote all shares of Common Stock owned or controlled by them, and shall take all
necessary actions within their control and (iii) the Belfer Parties shall vote
all shares of Common Stock owned or controlled by them, and shall take all
necessary action within their control, in each case, so that the composition of
the Board of Directors and the manner of selecting members thereof shall be as
follows:

                  (a) The Board of Directors shall be comprised of eleven (11)
Directors (two of whom shall be Independent Directors) divided into three
classes, with Directors in each class having a three-year term following a
transition period in which the initial Class 1 Directors serve a one-year term,
the initial Class 2 Directors serve a two-year term and the initial Class 3
Directors serve a three-year term. Medicor and ERI shall each have the right to
nominate one (1) Director to Class 3, one (1) Director to Class 2 and one (1)
Director to Class 1 and the Belfer Group shall have the right to nominate one
(1) Director to Class 3 and one (1) Director to Class 1; provided, that the
existing membership of the Board of Directors and the class to which each
director nominee belongs shall not be affected by the execution of this
Agreement. Each of Medicor, ERI and the Belfer Group, respectively, shall have
the right: (i) subject to applicable law, including Nevada Revised Statutes
78.335(1) requiring a vote of not less than two-thirds of the issued and
outstanding voting power to remove an incumbent director, to remove, with or
without cause, any Director nominated in accordance with this Section 3.2 by
Medicor, ERI or the Belfer Group, respectively, and each of the Medicor Parties,
the ERI Parties and the Belfer Parties shall vote their Shares in furtherance of
this provision; and (ii) to nominate any replacement for a Director nominated in
accordance with this Section 3.2 by Medicor, ERI or the Belfer Group,
respectively, upon the death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or
removal from office of such Director. The Board of Directors shall duly appoint
as a Director each person so nominated to fill a vacancy on the Board of
Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing:

                           (i) if either the Medicor Parties or the ERI Parties
own less than 18% of the Company's then outstanding Common Stock, then Medicor
or ERI, as the case may be,



                                      -9-
<PAGE>

shall have the right to nominate only: (x) one (1) Director to the class of
Directors having the then longest remaining term; and (y) one (1) Director to
the class of Directors having the next longest remaining term; provided that in
either case, if necessary to put one or more of a Party's Director nominees into
such classes, the Company and the other Parties shall cooperate as necessary to
effect such nomination; provided, further, that the right to change such classes
may only be exercised in connection with the reduction in the number of the
Party's Director nominees;

                           (ii) if either the Medicor Parties, the ERI Parties
or the Belfer Parties own less than 8% of the Company's then outstanding Common
Stock, then Medicor, ERI or the Belfer Group, as the case may be, shall have the
right to nominate only one (1) Director to the class of Directors having the
then longest remaining term; provided that if necessary to put a Party's
Director nominee into such class, the Company and the other Parties shall
cooperate as necessary to effect such nomination; provided, further, that the
right to change such classes may only be exercised in connection with the
reduction in the number of the Party's Director nominees; and

                           (iii) if either the Medicor Parties, the ERI Parties
or the Belfer Parties own less than 5% of the Company's then outstanding Common
Stock, then Medicor, ERI or the Belfer Group, as the case may be, shall not have
the right to nominate any Directors.

                  (b) For so long as any Party has the right to nominate a
Director under this Agreement, the Company will give such Party written notice
of each regularly scheduled meeting of its Board of Directors as far in advance
as such notice is required to be delivered to the Directors (and at least three
business days prior to the date of each special meeting of the Board of
Directors), and the Board of Directors will permit up to two (2) representatives
of each such Party to attend as observers of all meetings of the Board of
Directors (including any meetings of committees thereof); provided that in the
case of telephonic meetings conducted in accordance with the Company's bylaws
and applicable law, each such Party's representatives will be given the
opportunity to listen to such telephonic meetings. Each representative will be
entitled to receive all written materials and other information (including,
without limitation, copies of meeting minutes and press releases) given to
Directors in connection with such meetings at the same time such materials and
information are given to the Directors. If the Board of Directors proposes to
take any action by written consent in lieu of a meeting of the Board of
Directors or of any committee thereof, the Company will give written notice
thereof to each such Party who has the right to nominate a director under this
Agreement prior to the effective date of such consent describing in reasonable
detail the nature and substance of such action. The Company will reimburse each
Party that has observer rights under this Section 3.2(b) for all reasonable
expenses incurred by such Party's representatives in connection with attending
meetings of the Board of Directors and committees thereof.

         Section 3.3. Approval of Major Actions. The Company may take and may
permit its Subsidiaries to take and engage in the following Major Actions only
upon receiving Supermajority Approval:



                                      -10-
<PAGE>

                  (a) Issuance of Capital Stock. Any issuance, sale, grant or
award or entering into any agreement to issue, sell, grant or award any capital
stock of the Company other than (i) pursuant to agreements or obligations in
existence prior to the date hereof and permitted under the terms of the Second
Amended and Restated Shareholders Agreement, (ii) the issuance of capital stock
of the Company pursuant to any rights or agreements including without limitation
any security convertible or exchangeable into or exercisable for, with or
without consideration, capital stock of the Company so long as such rights or
agreements received Supermajority Approval and (iii) the grant of options and
the issuance of restricted stock under Company stock incentive plans for the
benefit of the Company's employees and directors and the issuance of Common
Stock upon the exercise of such options.

                  (b) Debt to Total Capitalization. Incur Funded Debt of the
Company and its Subsidiaries so that the ratio of Debt of the Company and its
Subsidiaries to Total Capitalization is greater than 0.4 to 1.0.

                  (c) Sale Transactions. Any merger or consolidation of the
Company, the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or
the sale of assets or transfer to a third party by sale of assets, merger or
otherwise by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (in one transaction or a
series of related transactions) of any Subsidiary of the Company or the assets
or business of the Company or a Subsidiary thereof which involves more than $150
million (or such other amount, established by resolution of the Board of
Directors (approved by Supermajority Approval) from time to time), of the total
assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, including a sale of
the Company effected by means of a sale of Common Stock, but excluding, however,
dispositions of assets in the ordinary course of business (including, but not
limited to, oil and gas production).

         Section 3.4. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws. The
Company, the Medicor Parties, the ERI Parties and the Belfer Parties shall take
or cause to be taken all lawful action necessary to ensure at all times that the
Company's Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws are at all times consistent with
the provisions of this Agreement.

         Section 3.5. Self-Interested Transactions. The consummation, amendment,
restatement, substitution or modification of any contract, agreement,
transaction or other arrangement between the Company or any Subsidiary of the
Company and any Medicor Person, ERI, any Belfer Person or any Affiliate of any
Medicor Person, ERI or any Belfer Person (a "Self-Interested Transaction") shall
require, except when the economic effect to the Company of any such action (or
set of related actions) is $50,000 or less, the affirmative vote of a majority
of the Disinterested Directors present at a duly called and noticed meeting at
which a quorum is present. "Disinterested Directors" shall include all Directors
not nominated by the Medicor Group, ERI or the Belfer Group which is or whose
Affiliate is a party to the Self-Interested Transaction (other than any
Independent Directors).



                                      -11-
<PAGE>

                                   ARTICLE IV
                                   STANDSTILL

         Section 4.1. Standstill.

                  (a) The Medicor Group agrees that from and after the date
hereof it will not, and will not act in concert with any Person so as to form a
group (as such term is defined in Regulation 13D promulgated under the Exchange
Act) to, in any manner, acquire, agree to acquire or make any proposal to
acquire, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership (as such term is defined
in Regulation 13D promulgated under the Exchange Act) of any additional
securities or debt instruments of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company
without the consent of ERI, so long as the ERI Parties hold at least 5% of the
then outstanding Common Stock, and the Belfer Group, so long as the Belfer
Parties hold at least 5% of the then outstanding Common Stock. The restrictions
set forth in this Section 4.1(a) shall not apply (i) so long as (A) the Medicor
Parties do not beneficially own more than 30% of the then outstanding Common
Stock or (B) the Medicor Parties, make an offer in writing to the Company's
Board of Directors to acquire for cash all of the outstanding Common Stock not
then held by it and the Board of Directors (including a majority of the
Disinterested Directors) approves the offer after receipt of a written fairness
opinion from a nationally recognized investment banking firm to the effect that
the consideration to be paid in the transaction is fair from a financial point
of view to all shareholders of the Company (other than the offering shareholder)
or (ii) if each of the ERI Parties and the Belfer Parties hold less than 5% of
the then outstanding Common Stock.

                  (b) ERI agrees that from and after the date hereof it will
not, and that it will cause its Subsidiaries not to, and will not act in concert
with any Person so as to form a group (as such term is defined in Regulation 13D
promulgated under the Exchange Act) to, in any manner, acquire, agree to acquire
or make any proposal to acquire, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership
(as such term is defined in Regulation 13D promulgated under the Exchange Act)
of any additional securities or debt instruments of the Company or any
Subsidiary of the Company without the consent of the Medicor Group, so long as
the Medicor Parties hold at least 5% of the then outstanding Common Stock, and
the Belfer Group, so long as the Belfer Parties hold at least 5% of the then
outstanding Common Stock. The restrictions set forth in this Section 4.1(b)
shall not apply (i) so long as (A) ERI does not beneficially own more than 30%
of the then outstanding Common Stock or (B) ERI makes an offer in writing to the
Company's Board of Directors to acquire for cash all of the outstanding Common
Stock not then held by it and the Board of Directors (including a majority of
the Disinterested Directors) approves the offer after receipt of a written
fairness opinion from a nationally recognized investment banking firm to the
effect that the consideration to be paid in the transaction is fair from a
financial point of view to all shareholders of the Company (other than the
offering shareholder) or (ii) if each of the Medicor Parties and the Belfer
Parties hold less than 5% of the then outstanding Common Stock.

                  (c) The Belfer Group agrees that from and after the date
hereof they will not, and will not act in concert with any Person so as to form
a group (as such term is defined in Regulation 13D promulgated under the
Exchange Act) to, in any manner, acquire, agree to acquire or make any proposal
to acquire, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership (as such term is
defined in Regulation 13D promulgated under the Exchange Act) of any additional



                                      -12-
<PAGE>

securities or debt instruments of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company
without the consent of the Medicor Group, so long as the Medicor Parties hold at
least 5% of the then outstanding Common Stock, and ERI, so long as the ERI
Parties hold at least 5% of the then outstanding Common Stock. The restrictions
set forth in this Section 4.1(c) shall not apply (i) so long as (A) the Belfer
Parties do not beneficially own more than 20% of the then outstanding Common
Stock or (B) the Belfer Parties make an offer in writing to the Company's Board
of Directors to acquire for cash all of the outstanding Common Stock not then
held by it and the Board of Directors (including a majority of the Disinterested
Directors) approves the offer after receipt of a written fairness opinion from a
nationally recognized investment banking firm to the effect that the
consideration to be paid in the transaction is fair from a financial point of
view to all shareholders of the Company (other than the offering shareholder) or
(ii) if each of the Medicor Parties and the ERI Parties hold less than 5% of the
then outstanding Common Stock.

                                   ARTICLE V
                               REGISTRATION RIGHTS

         Section 5.1. Demand Registrations.

                  (a) Requests for Registration. Each of the Medicor Group, on
behalf of the Medicor Parties, ERI, on behalf of the ERI Parties, and the Belfer
Group, on behalf of the Belfer Parties, shall have the right to request
registration under the Securities Act of all or part of their Registrable
Securities on Form S-1 or any similar long-form registration or, if available,
on Form S-2 or S-3 or any similar short-form registration ("Short-Form
Registrations") in accordance with this Article V. All registrations requested
pursuant to this Section 5.l(a) are referred to herein as "Demand
Registrations."

                  (b) Short-Form Registrations. Demand Registrations will be
Short-Form Registrations whenever the Company is permitted to use any applicable
short form. The Company will use its best efforts to make Short-Form
Registrations available for the sale of Registrable Securities. Demand
Registration requests may be for shelf registrations if the Company is then
eligible to effect shelf registrations.

                  (c) Restrictions on Demand Registrations. The registration
rights granted under this Section 5.1 are expressly subject to the following
terms and conditions:

                           1. The Company will not be obligated to effect any
Demand Registration within six (6) months after the effective date of a previous
Demand Registration.

                           2. The Company may postpone for up to ninety (90)
days the filing or the effectiveness of a registration statement for a Demand
Registration if the Company notifies the Party initiating the Demand
Registration within fifteen (15) days after receipt of request for such
registration (i) that the Company is at such time conducting or about to conduct
an underwritten public offering of its securities for its own account and the
Board of Directors has determined in its good faith judgment that such offering
would be materially adversely effected by such registration requested by such
Party or (ii) that the Board of Directors has determined, in its good faith
judgment, that such Demand Registration would reasonably be expected to have an



                                      -13-
<PAGE>

adverse effect on any proposal or plan by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries
to engage in any acquisition of assets (other than in the ordinary course of
business) or any merger, consolidation, tender offer or similar transaction;
provided, that, in such event, the holders of Registrable Securities initially
requesting such Demand Registration will be entitled to withdraw such request
and, if such request is withdrawn, such Demand Registration will not count as a
Demand Registration hereunder and the Company will pay all Registration Expenses
in connection with such request.

                           3. Any request for a Demand Registration shall not be
otherwise deemed to be effective unless such request includes the lesser of (i)
at least ten percent (10%) of the Company's outstanding Common Stock or (ii) all
of the Common Stock owned by the Parties making the request. Each request for a
Demand Registration shall specify the approximate number of Registrable
Securities requested to be registered and the anticipated per share price range
for such offering.

                           4. The Medicor Parties and the ERI Parties shall each
be entitled to initiate only three (3) Demand Registrations and the Belfer
Parties shall be entitled to initiate only two (2) Demand Registrations to
register Registrable Securities under the terms of this Section 5.1; provided,
if one of such Parties joins in the Demand Registration initiated by the other
in accordance with Section 5.1(c)(5), the initiating Party shall not be deemed
to have initiated the Demand Registration for purposes (and solely for the
purposes) of the limitation contained in this sentence.

                           5. If at any time or from time to time any of the
Parties shall request registration of any Registrable Securities in accordance
with this Section 5.1, the Company shall give the other Parties prompt written
notice of the proposed registration. The other Parties shall have the right to
join in such registration by giving notice to the Company within five (5)
business days after such Party receives notice of the proposed registration from
the Company and the Company shall include in such registration the number of
Registrable Securities requested by such other Parties on the same terms and
conditions as the Registrable Securities of the Party initiating the request. If
the managing underwriter or underwriters of a proposed offering for which
securities of more than one of the Parties are included pursuant to this Section
5.1(c)(5) advise the Company in writing that in its or their good faith judgment
the total amount of securities to be included in such offering exceeds the
number which can be sold in such offering within a price range reasonably
acceptable to the Parties, then in such event the securities to be included in
such offering shall be allocated pro rata among each such Parties and their
Permitted Transferees participating in the offering based upon the number of
Shares owned by each such Party and its Permitted Transferees.

                           6. Any registration statement filed on Form S-3
pursuant to Rule 415 of the Securities Act covering Registrable Securities shall
be restricted for use pursuant to a firmly underwritten offering of Common
Stock; provided, however, that a shelf registration statement filed under Rule
415 will not require a firm commitment underwritten offering for (i) sales of
Common Stock constituting block sales of less than five percent (5%) of the
Common Stock outstanding to institutional investors in solicited transactions,
or (ii) sales into the market in unsolicited brokers transactions if the total
amount of shares registered for sale in this manner



                                      -14-
<PAGE>

involves less than ten percent (10%) of the shares of Common Stock then
outstanding. Each offering of Registrable Securities under this Section 5.1
pursuant to a shelf registration statement under Rule 415, other than offers and
sales of Common Stock pursuant to subsections (i) and (ii) of the preceding
sentence, shall be treated as a Demand Registration (other than for purposes of
Section 5.1(c)(1)) and must satisfy all requirements for a Demand Registration.

                  (d) Other Registration Rights. The Company will not grant to
any Person the right to request the Company to register any equity securities of
the Company with terms more favorable to such Person than those granted in this
Agreement without the prior written consent of the Medicor Group, ERI and the
Belfer Group.

         Section 5.2. Piggyback Registrations.

                  (a) Right to Piggyback. Whenever the Company proposes to
register any of its equity securities under the Securities Act (other than a
registration on Form S-4 or Form S-8 or any successor or similar forms and other
than a Demand Registration pursuant to Section 5.1) and the registration form to
be used may be used for the registration of Registrable Securities (a "Piggyback
Registration"), whether or not for sale for its own account, the Company will
give prompt written notice to the Medicor Group, on behalf of the Medicor
Parties, ERI, on behalf of the ERI Parties, and the Belfer Group, on behalf of
the Belfer Parties, of its intention to effect such a registration and will
include in such registration all Registrable Securities with respect to which
the Company has received written requests for inclusion therein within twenty
(20) days after the receipt of the Company's notice. The Company will use its
reasonable best efforts to include, and to cause the managing underwriters, if
applicable, to include in the proposed offering such Registrable Securities on
the same terms and conditions as the securities of the Company included in such
registration.

                  (b) Priority on Primary Registrations. If a Piggyback
Registration is an underwritten primary registration on behalf of the Company,
and the managing underwriters advise the Company in writing that in their
opinion the number of securities requested to be included in such registration
exceeds the number which can be sold in such offering within a price range
reasonably acceptable to the Company, the Company will include in such
registration (i) first, the securities the Company proposes to sell, to the
extent of availability and, (ii) second, all other securities (including the
Registrable Securities) requested to be included in such registration, pro rata
among the respective holders thereof on the basis of the number of securities
owned by each such holder.

                  (c) Priority on Secondary Registrations. If a Piggyback
Registration is an underwritten secondary registration on behalf of holders of
the Company's securities, and the managing underwriters advise the Company in
writing that in their opinion the number of securities requested to be included
in such registration exceeds the number which can be sold in such offering
within a price range reasonably acceptable to such holders, the securities which
can be included in such registration shall be allocated as follows: (i) first,
the securities (including the Registrable Securities) requested to be included
in such registration by the Persons exercising the Demand Registration, (ii)
then, to the extent of availability, securities to be registered for the account
of the Company and (iii) thereafter, to the extent of availability, to other
security holders



                                      -15-
<PAGE>

exercising piggyback registration rights, pro rata based upon the number of
Shares owned by each such holder.

                  (d) Limited Purpose Shelf Registration Statement. In order to
facilitate the exercise by the Medicor Group, ERI and the Belfer Group of their
Piggyback Registration rights, upon request of either the Medicor Group, ERI or
the Belfer Group (any such request shall not constitute a Demand Registration
for purposes of Section 5.1), the Company shall prepare and file with the
Commission one or more registration statements on Form S-3 under Rule 415 of the
Securities Act providing for the resale of Registrable Securities in an amount
of shares to be mutually agreed by Company and the Medicor Group, ERI and the
Belfer Group from time to time, provided, that such registration statement on
Form S-3 shall be restricted for use by the holders of the securities subject to
such registration statement only for participation pursuant to Section 5.2 in a
firmly underwritten public offering of Common Stock proposed by the Company for
the account of the Company or the account of any other security holder.

         Section 5.3. Holdback Agreements.

                  (a) If requested in writing by the Company or the managing
underwriters, if any, of any registration effected pursuant to Sections 5.1 or
5.2, the Medicor Group agrees not to and will cause the other Medicor Parties
not to, ERI agrees not to and will cause the other ERI Parties not to, and the
Belfer Group agrees not to and will cause the other Belfer Parties not to effect
any public sale or distribution (including sales pursuant to Rule 144) of equity
securities of the Company, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or
exercisable for such securities, during the time period reasonably requested by
the managing underwriters, not to exceed seven (7) days prior to and the 180-day
period beginning on the effective date of any underwritten Demand Registration,
any underwritten Piggyback Registration or other underwritten registration by
the Company of its securities (except as part of such underwritten
registration).

                  (b) If requested in writing by the managing underwriters of
any registration effected pursuant to Section 5.1 or 5.2, the Company agrees (i)
not to effect any public sale or distribution of its equity securities, or any
securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for such securities,
during the time period reasonably requested by the managing underwriters, not to
exceed seven days prior to and during the 180-day period beginning on the
effective date of any underwritten Demand Registration or any underwritten
Piggyback Registration (except as part of such underwritten registration or
pursuant to registrations on Form S-4 or Form S-8 or any successor forms), and
(ii) to cause each holder of its Common Stock, or any securities convertible
into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Stock, purchased from the Company
at any time after the date of this Agreement (other than in a registered public
offering), to so agree.

                  (c) If the Company has previously filed a registration
statement with respect to Registrable Securities pursuant to Sections 5.1 or
5.2, and if such previous registration has not been withdrawn or abandoned, the
Company will not file or cause to be effected any other registration of any of
its equity securities or securities convertible or exchangeable into or
exercisable for its equity securities under the Securities Act (except on Form
S-4 or Form S-8 or



                                      -16-
<PAGE>

any successor forms), whether on its own behalf or at the request of any holder
or holders of such securities, until a period of at least ninety (90) days has
elapsed from the effective date of such previous registration.

         Section 5.4. Registration Procedures. Whenever the Medicor Group, on
behalf of the Medicor Parties, ERI, on behalf of the ERI Parties, or the Belfer
Group on behalf of the Belfer Parties has requested that any Registrable
Securities be registered pursuant to this Agreement, the Company will use its
best efforts to effect the registration and the sale of such Registrable
Securities in accordance with the intended method of disposition thereof, and
pursuant thereto the Company will as expeditiously as possible:

                  (a) prepare and file with the Commission a registration
statement with respect to such Registrable Securities and thereafter use its
reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to become effective
(provided that, before filing a registration statement or prospectus or any
amendments or supplements thereto, the Company will furnish to the counsel
selected by the holders of the Registrable Securities covered by such
registration statement copies of all such documents proposed to be filed, which
documents will be subject to reasonable review of such counsel);

                  (b) prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and
supplements to such registration statement and the prospectus used in connection
therewith as may be necessary to keep such registration statement effective for
a period of either (i) not less than six months (subject to extension pursuant
to Section 5.7(b)) or, if such registration statement relates to an underwritten
offering, such longer period as in the opinion of counsel for the underwriters a
prospectus is required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of
Registrable Securities by an underwriter or dealer or (ii) such shorter period
as will terminate when all of the securities covered by such registration
statement have been disposed of in accordance with the intended methods of
disposition by the seller or sellers thereof set forth in such registration
statement (but in any event not before the expiration of any longer period
required under the Securities Act), and to comply with the provisions of the
Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such
registration statement until such time as all of such securities have been
disposed of in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the seller
or sellers thereof set forth in such registration statement;

                  (c) furnish to each seller of Registrable Securities such
number of copies of such registration statement, each amendment and supplement
thereto, the prospectus included in such registration statement (including each
preliminary prospectus) and such other documents as such seller may reasonably
request in order to facilitate the disposition of the Registrable Securities
owned by such seller;

                  (d) use its best efforts to register or qualify such
Registrable Securities under such other securities or blue sky laws of such
jurisdictions as any seller reasonably requests and do any and all other acts
and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable such seller
to consummate the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Registrable
Securities owned by such seller (provided that the Company will not be required
to (i) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it would not
otherwise be required to qualify but for this



                                      -17-
<PAGE>

subparagraph, (ii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction or (iii)
consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction);

                  (e) notify each seller of such Registrable Securities, at any
time when a prospectus relating thereto is required to be delivered under the
Securities Act, upon discovery that, or upon the discovery of the happening of
any event as a result of which, the prospectus included in such registration
statement contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omits any fact
necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the
circumstances under which they were made, and, at the request of any such
seller, the Company will prepare and furnish to such seller a reasonable number
of copies of a supplement or amendment to such prospectus so that, as thereafter
delivered to the purchasers of such Registrable Securities, such prospectus will
not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any fact
necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the
circumstances under which they were made;

                  (f) cause all such Registrable Securities to be listed on each
securities exchange on which similar securities issued by the Company are then
listed and, if not so listed, to be listed on the Nasdaq National Market or the
New York Stock Exchange;

                  (g) provide a transfer agent and registrar for all such
Registrable Securities not later than the effective date of such registration
statement;

                  (h) enter into such customary agreements (including
underwriting agreements in customary form for similar offerings) and take all
such other actions as the holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities
being sold or the underwriters, if any, reasonably request in order to expedite
or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Securities (including, without
limitation, effecting a stock split or a combination of shares);

                  (i) make available for inspection by any seller of Registrable
Securities, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to such
registration statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by
any such seller or underwriter, all financial and other records, pertinent
corporate documents and properties of the Company, and cause the Company's
officers, Directors, employees and independent accountants to supply all
information reasonably requested by any such seller, underwriter, attorney,
accountant or agent in connection with such registration statement;

                  (j) otherwise use its reasonable best efforts to comply with
all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission, and make available to
its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, an earnings statement
covering the period of at least twelve months beginning with the first day of
the Company's first full calendar quarter after the effective date of the
registration statement, which earnings statement shall satisfy the provisions of
Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder;

                  (k) in the event of the issuance of any stop order, injunction
or other order or requirement suspending the effectiveness of a registration
statement, or of any order suspending or preventing the use of any related
prospectus or suspending the qualification of any securities



                                      -18-
<PAGE>

included in such registration statement for sale in any jurisdiction, the
Company will use its reasonable best efforts promptly to obtain the withdrawal
of such order and to notify the holders of all of the Registrable Securities
covered by the registration statement of such order;

                  (l) obtain a cold comfort letter, dated the effective date of
such registration statement (and, if such registration includes an underwritten
public offering, dated the date of the closing under the underwriting
agreement), signed by the Company's independent public accountants in customary
form and covering such matters of the type customarily covered by cold comfort
letters as the holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold
reasonably request (provided that such Registrable Securities constitute at
least 10% of the securities covered by such registration statement);

                  (m) provide a legal opinion of the Company's outside counsel,
dated the effective date of such registration statement (and, if such
registration includes an underwritten public offering, dated the date of the
closing under the underwriting agreement), with respect to the registration
statement, each amendment and supplement thereto, the prospectus included herein
(including the preliminary prospectus) and such other documents relating thereto
in customary form and covering such matters of the type customarily covered by
legal opinions of such nature;

                  (n) promptly furnish to the managing underwriter, if any, and
each seller of Registrable Securities copies of any written request by the
Commission or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a
registration statement or prospectus or for additional information; and

                  (o) make reasonably available its employees and personnel and
otherwise provide reasonable assistance to any underwriters in the marketing of
Registrable Securities in any underwritten offering.

         The Company may require each seller of Registrable Securities as to
which any registration is being effected to furnish the Company such information
regarding such seller and the distribution of such securities as the Company may
from time to time reasonably request in writing.

         Section 5.5. Registration Expenses.

                  (a) The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses relating
to any registration of Registrable Securities hereunder. "Registration Expenses"
shall mean any and all fees and expenses incident to the Company's performance
of or compliance with this Article V, including, without limitation: (i)
Commission, stock exchange or National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
registration and filing fees and all listing fees and fees with respect to the
inclusion of securities on the Nasdaq National Market, (ii) fees and expenses of
compliance with state securities or "blue sky" laws and in connection with the
preparation of a "blue sky" survey, including, without limitation, reasonable
fees and expenses of blue sky counsel, (iii) printing expenses, (iv) messenger
and delivery expenses, (v) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company,
(vi) with respect to each registration, reasonable fees and disbursements of one



                                      -19-
<PAGE>

counsel for the selling holders of Shares (selected by the holders making the
Demand Registration request, in the case of a registration pursuant to Section
5.1, and selected by the holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities
included in such registration, in the case of a registration pursuant to Section
5.2) as well as of one local counsel, (vii) fees and disbursements of all
independent public accountants (including the expenses of any audit and/or "cold
comfort" letter) and fees and expenses of other persons, including special
experts, retained by the Company, and (viii) any other fees and disbursements of
underwriters, if any, customarily paid by issuers or sellers of securities.

                  (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the provisions of this
Section 5.5 shall be deemed amended to the extent necessary to cause these
expense provisions to comply with "blue sky" laws of each state in which the
offering is made and (ii) in connection with any registration hereunder, each
holder of Registrable Securities being registered shall pay all underwriting
discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, attributable to the
Registrable Securities included in the offering by such holder.

         Section 5.6. Indemnification.

                  (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless, to the
extent permitted by law, each holder of Registrable Securities, its officers and
Directors and each Person who controls such holder (within the meaning of the
Securities Act) against any losses, claims, damages, liabilities, joint or
several, to which such holder or any such Director or officer or controlling
person may become subject under the Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such
losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions or proceedings, whether
commenced or threatened, in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon (i)
any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained (A) in any
registration statement, prospectus or preliminary prospectus or any amendment
thereof or supplement thereto or (B) in any application or other document or
communication (in this Section 5.6 collectively called an "application")
executed by or on behalf of the Company or based upon written information
furnished by or on behalf of the Company filed in any jurisdiction in order to
qualify any securities covered by such registration statement under the "blue
sky" or securities laws thereof, or (ii) any omission or alleged omission of a
material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements
therein not misleading, and the Company will reimburse such holder and each such
Director, officer and controlling person for any legal or any other expenses
incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such loss,
claim, liability, action or proceeding; provided that the Company shall not be
liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage,
liability (or action or proceeding in respect thereof) or expense arises out of
or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement, or omission or
alleged omission, made in such registration statement, any such prospectus or
preliminary prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, or in any
application, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information
prepared and furnished to the Company by such holder expressly for use therein
or by such holder's failure to deliver a copy of the registration statement or
prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto after the Company has
furnished such holder with a sufficient number of copies of the same. In
connection with an underwritten offering, the Company will indemnify such
underwriters, their officers and Directors and each Person who



                                      -20-
<PAGE>

controls such underwriters (within the meaning of the Securities Act) to the
same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the holders
of Registrable Securities.

                  (b) In connection with any registration statement in which a
holder of Registrable Securities is participating, each such holder will furnish
to the Company in writing such information and documents as the Company
reasonably requests for use in connection with any such registration statement
or prospectus and, to the extent permitted by law, will indemnify and hold
harmless the Company, its Directors and officers and each other Person who
controls the Company (within the meaning of the Securities Act) against any
losses, claims, damages, liabilities, joint or several, to which the Company or
any such Director or officer or controlling person may become subject under the
Securities Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or
liabilities (or actions or proceedings, whether commenced or threatened, in
respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon (i) any untrue or alleged untrue
statement of a material fact contained in the registration statement, prospectus
or preliminary prospectus or any amendment thereof or supplement thereto or in
any application or (ii) any omission or alleged omission of a material fact
required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not
misleading, but only to the extent that such untrue statement or omission is
made in such registration statement, any such prospectus or preliminary
prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, or in any application, in
reliance upon and in conformity with written information prepared and furnished
to the Company by such holder expressly for use therein, and such holder will
reimburse the Company and each such Director, officer and controlling person for
any legal or any other expenses incurred by them in connection with
investigating or defending any such loss, claim, liability, action or
proceeding; provided that the obligation to indemnify will be individual to each
holder and will be limited to the net amount of proceeds received by such holder
from the sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to such registration statement.

                  (c) Any Person entitled to indemnification hereunder will (i)
give prompt written notice to the indemnifying party of any claim with respect
to which it seeks indemnification and (ii) unless in such indemnified party's
reasonable judgment a conflict of interest between such indemnified and
indemnifying parties may exist with respect to such claim, permit such
indemnifying party to assume the defense of such claim with counsel reasonably
satisfactory to the indemnified party. If such defense is assumed, the
indemnifying party will not be subject to any liability for any settlement made
by the indemnified party without its consent (but such consent will not be
unreasonably withheld). An indemnifying party who is not entitled to, or elects
not to, assume the defense of a claim will not be obligated to pay the fees and
expenses of more than one counsel for all parties indemnified by such
indemnifying party with respect to such claim, unless in the reasonable judgment
of any indemnified party a conflict of interest may exist between such
indemnified party and any other of such indemnified parties with respect to such
claim.

                  (d) The indemnification provided for under this Agreement will
remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on
behalf of the indemnified party or any officer, Director or controlling Person
of such indemnified party and will survive the transfer of securities by any
holder thereof. The Company also agrees to make such provisions, as are



                                      -21-
<PAGE>

reasonably requested by any indemnified party, for contribution to such party in
the event the Company's indemnification is unavailable for any reason.

         Section 5.7. Participation in Underwritten Registrations.

                  (a) If requested by the underwriters for any underwritten
offering pursuant to a Demand Registration requested under Section 5.1, the
Company shall enter into a customary underwriting agreement with the
underwriters. Such underwriting agreement shall be satisfactory in form and
substance to the Person who requested such registration and shall contain such
representations and warranties by, and such other agreements on the part of, the
Company and such other terms as are generally prevailing in agreements of that
type, including, without limitation, indemnities and contribution agreements.
Such underwriting agreement shall also contain such representations, warranties,
indemnities and contributions by the participating holders as are customary in
agreements of that type. In the case of a registration pursuant to Section 5.2
hereof, if the Company shall have determined to enter into any underwriting
agreements in connection therewith, all of the holders' Registrable Securities
to be included in such registration shall be subject to such underwriting
agreement. Such underwriting agreement shall also contain such representations,
warranties, indemnities and contributions by the participating holders as are
customary in agreements of that type.

                  (b) Each Person that is participating in any registration
hereunder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the
happening of any event of the kind described in Section 5.4(e) above, such
Person will forthwith discontinue the disposition of its Registrable Securities
pursuant to the registration statement until such Person's receipt of the copies
of a supplemented or amended prospectus as contemplated by such Section 5.4(e).
In the event the Company shall give any such notice, the applicable time period
mentioned in Section 5.4(b) during which a registration statement is to remain
effective shall be extended by the number of days during the period from and
including the date of the giving of such notice pursuant to this paragraph to
and including the date when each seller of a Registrable Security covered by
such registration statement shall have received the copies of the supplemented
or amended prospectus contemplated by Section 5.4(e).

         Section 5.8. Current Public Information. At all times after the Company
has filed a registration statement with the Commission pursuant to the
requirements of either the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, the Company will
file all reports required to be filed by it under the Act and the Exchange Act
and the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission thereunder, and will
take such further action as any holder or holders of Registrable Securities may
reasonably request, all to the extent required to enable such holders to sell
Registrable Securities pursuant to Rule 144.

         Section 5.9. Cooperation. If the Company determines to authorize and/or
issue any capital stock or other debt or equity securities in a public offering,
each of the Parties and their Permitted Transferees agrees to cooperate with the
Company and to take all action necessary to assist the Company in consummating
such transaction.



                                      -22-
<PAGE>

                                   ARTICLE VI
                               GENERAL PROVISIONS

         Section 6.1. Notices. Any notice required to be given hereunder shall
be sufficient if in writing, and sent by facsimile transmission and by courier
service (with proof of service), hand delivery or certified or registered mail
(return receipt requested and first-class postage prepaid), addressed as
follows:

                  If to the Belfer Group:

                           Robert A. Belfer
                           767 Fifth Avenue, 46th Floor
                           New York, New York 10153
                           Fax Number:  (212) 644-2300
                           Phone Number: (212) 644-2200

                  With a copy to:

                           Vinson & Elkins L.L.P.
                           666 Fifth Avenue, 26th Floor
                           New York, New York  10103-0400
                           Attention:  Alan P. Baden
                           Fax Number:  (917) 206-8100
                           Phone Number: (917) 206-8001

                  If to Westport or the Company:

                           Donald D. Wolf,
                           Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
                           1670 Broadway, Suite 2800
                           Denver, CO.  80202
                           Fax Number:  (303) 573-5609
                           Phone Number: (303) 573-5404



                                      -23-
<PAGE>

                  If to Westport Energy LLC:

                           Westport Energy LLC
                           c/o Westport Investments Limited
                           Lyford Manor
                           Lyford Cay
                           P.O. Box N-7776
                           Nassau, Bahamas
                           Fax Number: (242) 362-5788

                  With a copy to:

                           Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP
                           1700 Pacific Avenue, Suite 4100
                           Dallas, Texas  75201-4675
                           Attention:  Michael E. Dillard, P.C.
                           Fax Number:  (214) 969-4343
                           Phone Number: (214)  969-2800

                  And to:

                           Michael Russell
                           Dr. Richard J. Haas Partners
                           Dukes Court
                           32 Duke Street, St. James's
                           London, SW1Y 6DF
                           Fax Number:  020.7.321.5242
                           Phone Number: 020.7.321.5200

                  If to ERI Investments, Inc.:

                           Johanna G. O'Loughlin
                           Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
                           ERI Investments, Inc.
                           One Oxford Centre, Suite 3300
                           Pittsburgh, PA  15219
                           Telephone: (412) 553-7760
                           Telecopy: (412) 553-5970



                                      -24-
<PAGE>

                  With a copy to:

                           Stephen W. Johnson, Esquire
                           Reed Smith LLP
                           435 Sixth Avenue
                           Pittsburgh, PA  15219-1886
                           Telephone: (412) 288-3131
                           Telecopy: (412) 288-3053

                  If to the Medicor Group:

                           Medicor Foundation
                           c/o Jura Trust AG
                           Mitteldorf 1
                           Postfach 838
                           FL-9490 Vaduz, Liechtenstein

                  With a copy to:

                           Kenneth S. Witt
                           Greenberg Traurig, LLP
                           1200 17th Street, Suite 2400
                           Denver, CO  80202
                           Telephone: (303) 572-6510
                           Telecopy: (303) 572-6540

or to such other address as any party shall specify by written notice so given,
and such notice shall be deemed to have been delivered as of the date so
telecommunicated, personally delivered or mailed.

         Section 6.2. Assignment; Binding Effect; Benefit. Any Party that
Transfers to a Permitted Transferee shall promptly give written notice of such
Transfer to the Parties pursuant to Section 6.1 and shall deliver to such
Parties a copy of the written agreement pursuant to which the Permitted
Transferee has agreed to be bound by the terms of this Agreement. Other than
Transfers to Permitted Transferees, neither this Agreement nor any of the
rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any of the
Parties or their Permitted Transferees without the prior written consent of the
other Parties; provided, that the Medicor Parties, the ERI Parties and the
Belfer Parties may assign all or a portion of their rights under Article V in
connection with any Transfer of Registrable Securities made in accordance with
this Agreement if immediately after the Transfer, the transferee beneficially
owns at least ten percent (10%) of the Common Stock of the Company then
outstanding, in which event each transferee will have rights and obligations
under Article V as if it was a party to this Agreement to the extent of such
assignment. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement shall be binding
upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective
successors and assigns. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to
the contrary, nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to
confer on any person other than the parties hereto



                                      -25-
<PAGE>

or their respective heirs, successors, executors, administrators and assigns any
rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities under or by reason of this
Agreement.

         Section 6.3. Entire Agreement. The Merger Agreement, this Agreement,
the exhibits and schedules hereto and any certificate delivered by the parties
in connection herewith constitute the entire agreement among the parties with
respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements and
understandings (oral and written) among the parties with respect thereto.

         Section 6.4. Amendment. No amendment, modification or waiver of this
Agreement shall be effective against any Party unless it shall be in writing and
signed by such Party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Exhibit A shall be amended
or modified from time to time to reflect Transfers to Permitted Transferees by
giving written notice of such Transfers to the Parties pursuant to Section 6.1.

         Section 6.5. Governing Law; Jurisdiction. This Agreement shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Nevada
without regard to its rules of conflict of laws. The Parties agree that any
suit, action or proceeding arising out of, or with respect to, this Agreement or
any judgment entered by any court in respect thereof may be brought only in the
courts of the State of Nevada or the federal district courts located within the
State of Nevada and the Parties hereby accept the exclusive jurisdiction of
those courts for the purpose of any suit, action or proceeding.

         Section 6.6. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed by the
parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and
delivered shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall together
constitute one and the same instrument. Each counterpart may consist of a number
of copies of this Agreement, each of which may be signed by less than all of the
parties hereto, but together all such copies are signed by all of the parties
hereto.

         Section 6.7. Headings. Headings of the Articles and Sections of this
Agreement are for the convenience of the parties only and shall be given no
substantive or interpretive effect whatsoever.

         Section 6.8. Interpretation. In this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires: (i) words describing the singular number shall include the
plural and vice versa; (ii) "including" shall mean including, without
limitation; (iii) words denoting any gender shall include all genders; and (iv)
words denoting natural persons shall include corporations and partnerships and
vice versa.

         Section 6.9. Incorporation of Exhibits and Schedules. All exhibits and
schedules hereto are hereby incorporated herein and made a part hereof for all
purposes as if fully set forth herein.

         Section 6.10. Severability. Any term or provision of this Agreement
which is invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to that
jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity or
unenforceability without rendering invalid or unenforceable the remaining terms
and provisions of this Agreement or otherwise affecting the validity or
enforceability of any of the



                                      -26-
<PAGE>

terms or provisions of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction. If any
provision of this Agreement is so broad as to be unenforceable, the provision
shall be interpreted to be only so broad as is enforceable.

         Section 6.11. Enforcement of Agreement. The Parties hereto agree that
irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this
Agreement were not performed in accordance with its specific terms or was
otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the Parties and their
Permitted Transferees shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to
prevent breaches of this Agreement and to enforce specifically the terms and
provisions hereof in any court, this being in addition to any other remedy to
which they may be entitled at law or in equity.

         Section 6.12. Confidentiality. None of the Medicor Group, their
Affiliates, employees, agents or representatives, ERI, its Affiliates,
employees, agents or representatives nor the Belfer Group, their Affiliates,
agents or representatives shall disclose to any third party any information
obtained about the Company or its operations or business which it may have
acquired pursuant to this Agreement, the Original Shareholders Agreement, the
Amended Shareholders Agreement or the Second Amended and Restated Shareholders
Agreement without the prior written consent of the Company; provided, that any
information that is otherwise publicly available, without breach of this
provision, or has been obtained from a third party without a breach of such
third party's duties, shall not be deemed confidential information.

         Section 6.13. Termination. This Agreement shall terminate and shall
cease to be binding on the Parties upon the earliest to occur of:

                  (a) with respect to any Party and its Permitted Transferees,
the date on which such Party and its Permitted Transferees cease to own at least
5.0% of the outstanding Common Stock; and

                  (b) with respect to any Party and its Permitted Transferees,
the date on which such Party and its Permitted Transferees cease to own at least
25% of the Common Stock owned by them as of the Effective Time; and

                  (c) the date on which all of the Parties who are then bound
hereby mutually consent to terminate this Agreement in writing;

provided, however, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.13 (a), (b) and
(c) above, the provisions of Article V shall continue in effect with respect to
a Party and its Permitted Transferees as long as it holds Registrable Securities
and the provisions of Section 6.12 shall not terminate.

         Section 6.14. Belfer Group Representative. Robert A. Belfer shall be
the initial Belfer Group representative (the "Belfer Group Representative"). The
Belfer Group Representative may be changed by delivery of a written notification
delivered to the parties hereto and executed by all of the members of the Belfer
Group. Each member of the Belfer Group hereby appoints the person or entity who
is, from time to time, duly appointed under this Section 6.14 as the



                                      -27-
<PAGE>

Belfer Group Representative to give any consent or approval, exercise any right
or take any action contemplated under this Agreement on behalf of the Belfer
Group. The members of the Belfer Group shall be so bound by the Belfer Group
Representative and the parties to this Agreement shall be entitled to rely on
the actions taken by the Belfer Group Representative contemplated by this
Agreement.

         Section 6.15. Medicor Group Representative. Michael Russell shall be
the initial Medicor Group representative (the "Medicor Group Representative").
The Medicor Group Representative may be changed by delivery of a written
notification delivered to the parties hereto and executed by all of the members
of the Medicor Group. Each member of the Medicor Group hereby appoints the
person or entity who is, from time to time, duly appointed under this Section
6.15 as the Medicor Group Representative to give any consent or approval,
exercise any right or take any action contemplated under this Agreement on
behalf of the Medicor Group. The members of the Medicor Group shall be so bound
by the Medicor Group Representative and the parties to this Agreement shall be
entitled to rely on the actions taken by the Medicor Group Representative
contemplated by this Agreement. The inclusion of WELLC and Medicor in a group,
referenced in this Agreement as the Medicor Group, and the appointment by WELLC
and Medicor of a Medicor Group Representative, as set forth above in this
Section 6.15, are merely for administrative convenience. Each of Medicor and
WELLC is a distinct legal entity, and neither Medicor nor WELLC controls the
other or is under the common control of a third party.

         Section 6.16. Effective Time. Notwithstanding anything herein to the
contrary, this Agreement shall become effective upon the transfer by WELLC of
not less than nine million of its shares of Common Stock to Medicor (the
"Effective Time"). The representations and warranties contained herein shall be
deemed to have been made as of the Effective Time. If the above mentioned
transfer by WELLC to Medicor does not occur on or before April 15, 2003 for any
reason, this Agreement shall terminate and the Second Amended and Restated
Shareholders Agreement shall remain in effect.



                                      -28-

<PAGE>


         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Third Amended and
Restated Shareholders Agreement and caused the same to be duly delivered on
their behalf as of the day and year first written above, to be effective as of
the Effective Date.

                             WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION:


                             By:    /s/ BARTH E. WHITHAM
                             Name:  Barth E. Whitham
                             Title: President and Chief Operating Officer



                             WESTPORT ENERGY LLC:

                             By: WESTPORT INVESTMENTS LIMITED, its
                             Managing Member

                                 By:    /s/ ROBERT A. HAAS
                                 Name:  Robert A. Haas
                                 Title: Vice President



                             ERI INVESTMENTS, INC.:


                             By:    /s/ KENNETH J. KUBACKI
                             Name:  Kenneth J. Kubacki
                             Title: Vice President



                             MEDICOR FOUNDATION:


                             By:    /s/ MICHAEL RUSSELL
                             Name:  Michael Russell
                             Title: Member of Counsel

                             By:    /s/ URSULA HAAS
                             Name:  Ursula Haas
                             Title: President


                             /s/ ROBERT A. BELFER
                             ------------------------------------------------
                             ROBERT A. BELFER




<PAGE>

                             /s/ JACK SALTZ
                             ------------------------------------------------
                             JACK SALTZ


                             SALTZ INVESTMENT GROUP, LLC:


                             By:    /s/ JACK SALTZ
                                --------------------------------------------
                             Name:  Jack Saltz
                             Title: Manager and Member


                             JACK & ANITA SALTZ FOUNDATION:


                             By:    /s/ JACK SALTZ
                                --------------------------------------------
                             Name:  Jack Saltz
                             Title: President


                             THE ROBERT A. AND RENEE E. BELFER FAMILY
                             FOUNDATION:


                             By:    /s/ ROBERT A. BELFER
                                --------------------------------------------
                             Name:  Robert A. Belfer
                             Title: Trustee and Donor


                             BELFER CORP.:


                             By:    /s/ ROBERT A. BELFER
                                --------------------------------------------
                             Name:  Robert A. Belfer
                             Title: President




<PAGE>


                             BELWEST PETROLEUM, INC.:


                             By:    /s/ ROBERT A. BELFER
                                --------------------------------------------
                             Name:  Robert A. Belfer
                             Title: President


                             A&B INVESTORS, INC.:


                             By:    /s/ ROBERT A. BELFER
                                --------------------------------------------
                             Name:  Robert A. Belfer
                             Title:


                             RENEE HOLDINGS PARTNERSHIP, L.P.:


                             By:    /s/ ROBERT A. BELFER
                                --------------------------------------------
                             Name:  Robert A. Belfer
                             Title: General Partner


                             THE LAURENCE D. BELFER FAMILY FOUNDATION:


                             By:    /s/ LAURENCE D. BELFER
                                --------------------------------------------
                             Name:  Laurence D. Belfer
                             Title: Trustee and Donor




<PAGE>

                             LDB CORP.:


                             By:    /s/ LAURENCE D. BELFER
                                --------------------------------------------
                             Name:  Laurence D. Belfer
                             Title: President


                             ROBERT A. BELFER 1990 FAMILY TRUST:


                             By:    /s/ LAURENCE D. BELFER
                                --------------------------------------------
                             Name:  Laurence D. Belfer
                             Title: Trustee


                             VANTZ LIMITED PARTNERSHIP:

                             By: VANTZ LLC
                                 Its General Partner

                                 By:    /s/ LAURENCE D. BELFER
                                    ---------------------------------------
                                 Name:  Laurence D. Belfer
                                 Title:


                             LDB TWO CORP.:


                             By:    /s/ LAURENCE D. BELFER
                             Name:  Laurence D. Belfer
                             Title: President



<PAGE>


                             BELFER TWO CORP.:


                             By:    /s/ ROBERT A. BELFER
                             Name:  Robert A. Belfer
                             Title: President


                             LIZ PARTNERS, L.P.

                             By: Liz Associates LLC,
                                 Its General Partner

                                 By:    /s/ ROBERT A. BELFER
                                 Name:  Robert A. Belfer
                                 Title: Managing Member of Liz Associates LLC




<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT A

                              CERTAIN STOCKHOLDERS


Jack Saltz
Saltz Investment Group, LLC
Jack & Anita Saltz Foundation
The Robert A. and Renee E. Belfer Family Foundation,
Robert A. Belfer
Belfer Corp.
Belwest Petroleum, Inc.
A&B Investors, Inc.
Renee Holdings Partnership, L.P.
The Laurence D. Belfer Family Foundation
LDB Corp.
Robert A. Belfer 1990 Family Trust
Vantz Limited Partnership
LDB Two Corp. (a Permitted Transferee of the Shares previously held by Laurence
  D. Belfer)
Belfer Two Corp. (a Permitted Transferee of the Shares previously held by Renee
  E. Belfer)
Liz Partners, L.P. (a Permitted Transferee of the Shares previously held by
  Elizabeth K. Belfer, which includes Shares distributed pursuant to the
  expiration of the two trusts for the benefit of Elizabeth K. Belfer (T6 and
  T7))



<PAGE>


                                  SCHEDULE 2.2

                         OWNERSHIP - EACH MEDICOR PERSON


<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         Ownership of Common Stock
                      Stockholder                          as of the date hereof
                 ------------------------                -------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>
                   Medicor Foundation                             11,000,000
                   Westport Energy LLC                             3,238,001
</Table>




<PAGE>


                                  SCHEDULE 2.3

                            OWNERSHIP -- ERI PARTIES



<Table>
<Caption>
                                                         Ownership of Common Stock
                       Stockholder                        as of the date hereof
                 ------------------------                -------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>
                  ERI Investments, Inc.                           13,911,152
</Table>




<PAGE>


                                  SCHEDULE 2.4

                         OWNERSHIP - EACH BELFER PERSON


<Table>
<Caption>
                        Stockholder                                      Shares held as of the date hereof
                        -----------                                      ---------------------------------
<S>                                                                      <C>
Jack Saltz                                                                             6,187
Saltz Investment Group, LLC(1)                                                        776,829
Jack & Anita Saltz Foundation(1)                                                      62,039
The Robert A. and Renee E. Belfer Family Foundation(2)                                263,793
Robert A. Belfer                                                                        --
Belfer Corp. (2)                                                                     2,753,270
Belwest Petroleum, Inc. (2)                                                             136
A&B Investors, Inc. (2)                                                                 --
Renee Holdings Partnership, L.P. (2)                                                  492,283
The Laurence D. Belfer Family Foundation(3)                                            5,077
LDB Corp. (3)                                                                         112,552
Robert A. Belfer 1990 Family Trust(3)                                                 230,040
Vantz Limited Partnership (3)                                                         261,610
LDB Two Corp. (3)                                                                     823,031
Belfer Two Corp. (2)                                                                 1,157,309
Liz Partners, L.P. (2)                                                                495,899
</Table>

- -----------

(1)      c/o Jack Saltz, 767 Fifth Floor Avenue, 46th Floor, New York, New York
         10153

(2)      c/o Robert A. Belfer, 767 Fifth Avenue, 46th Floor, New York, New York
         10153

(3)      c/o Laurence D. Belfer, 767 Fifth Avenue, 46th Floor, New York, New
         York 10153


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.28
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>d03825exv10w28.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE PROTECTION AGREEMENT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.28


                CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE PROTECTION AGREEMENT
                         WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

         This CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE PROTECTION AGREEMENT (the "Agreement")
is entered into as of February 1, 2003, between Westport Resources Corporation
("Westport"), and Carter G. Mathies ("the Employee").

                                    RECITALS

         WHEREAS, the Employee is a key employee of Westport and serves as
Westport's Vice President & General Manager, Western Division, and Westport and
the Employee desire to set forth herein the terms and conditions of the
Employee's compensation in the event of a termination of the Employee's
employment in connection with a Change in Control (as defined below).

         WHEREAS, in the event of a Change in Control, the Employee may be
vulnerable to dismissal without regard to quality of the Employee's service, and
Westport believes that it is in the best interests of Westport to enter into
this Agreement in order to ensure fair treatment of the Employee and to reduce
the distractions and other adverse effects upon such the Employee's performance
which are inherent in such a Change in Control.

         WHEREAS, this Agreement is not intended to be and shall not constitute
an employment contract between Westport and the Employee or to impose any
obligation upon Westport to retain the Employee. The Employee acknowledges that
the Employee is an "at-will" employee of Westport and that Westport may
terminate his or her employment at any time with or without cause and with or
without notice.

         NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing, and for
other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are
hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

                                    AGREEMENT

         1. Definitions. For purposes hereof, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:

                  a. "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any Person (as
defined herein), any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled
by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. A Person shall
be deemed to control another Person for purposes of this definition if such
Person possesses, directly or indirectly, the power (i) to vote the securities
or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of
the Board of Directors of a corporation or other Persons performing similar
functions for any other type of Person, or (ii) to direct or cause the direction
of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of
voting securities, by contract, as general partner, as trustee or otherwise.




<PAGE>

                  b. "Bonus Amount" shall mean the average of the annual bonuses
earned by the Employee for the three calendar years in which bonuses were paid
preceding the year of Employee's termination, or if the Employee has been
employed by the Company for less than three calendar years prior to termination,
the average for such lesser period of time (excluding years in which bonuses
were not paid). The Board of Directors shall determine, taking into
consideration Company performance, target bonus amounts and other factors, the
Bonus Amount of the Employee if the Employee has not been employed by the
Company for a period of time during which bonuses have been paid.

                  c. "Cause" shall mean: (i) the Employee's material breach of
any terms of this Agreement; (ii) the Employee's willful and continued failure
to perform his or her job duties and responsibilities; (iii) the Employee's
dishonesty towards, fraud upon, crime against, deliberate or attempted injury or
bad faith action with respect to Westport or any of its Affiliates; or (iv) the
Employee's conviction for any felony crime (whether in connection with
Westport's or any of its Affiliates' affairs or otherwise); provided, however,
that with respect to clauses (i) and (ii), no such breach or failure shall
constitute Cause unless such breach or failure continues after 30 days following
written notice by Westport the Employee of such breach or failure setting forth
with specificity the nature of such breach or failure.

                  d. "Change in Control" shall have occurred if (a) any "person"
or "group" (within the meaning of Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (the "1934 Act")), other than a trustee or other fiduciary
holding securities under an employee benefit plan of Westport or the current
beneficial owners or their Affiliates (as defined herein) are or become the
"beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the 1934 Act), directly or
indirectly, of more than one-half of the then outstanding voting stock of
Westport; or (b) there occurs a merger or consolidation of Westport with any
other corporation, other than a merger of consolidation which would result in
the voting securities of Westport outstanding immediately prior thereto
continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted
into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least a majority of the
combined voting power of the voting securities of Westport or such surviving
entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or the
stockholders approve a plan of complete liquidation of Westport or an agreement
for the sale or disposition by Westport of all or substantially all of
Westport's assets.

                  e. "Disability" shall mean a physical or mental infirmity
which impairs the Employee's ability to perform substantially his or her duties
for a period of one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.

                  f. "Good Reason" shall include any of the following:

                           (i) Westport's assignment to the Employee of duties
                  inconsistent with, or a substantial alteration in the nature
                  of, the Employee's responsibilities in effect immediately
                  prior to the Change in Control;

                           (ii) (A) a reduction in either the Employee's salary
                  or target bonus (if a target bonus has been established for
                  the Employee) as each is in effect on the date of a Change in
                  Control, or (B) the discontinuance or material adverse
                  alteration of



                                       2

<PAGE>

                  any material pension, welfare or fringe benefit enjoyed by
                  Employee on the date of a Change in Control, unless such
                  action relates to a discontinuance of benefits on a
                  management-wide or Company-wide basis;

                           (iii) Westport's relocation of the Employee to any
                  place in excess of 50 miles from the Employee's place of
                  employment immediately prior to the Change in Control without
                  the Employee's written consent, except for reasonably required
                  travel by the Employee on Westport's business;

                           (iv) any material breach by Westport of any provision
                  of this Agreement, if such material breach has not been cured
                  within 30 days following written notice by the Employee to
                  Westport of such breach setting forth with specificity the
                  nature of the breach; or

                           (v) any failure by Westport to obtain the assumption
                  of this Agreement by any successor (by merger, consolidation
                  or otherwise) or assign of Westport.

                  g. "Person" shall mean any individual, partnership, joint
venture, firm, company, corporation, association, trust or other enterprise or
any government or political subdivision or any agent, department or
instrumentality thereof.

                  h. "Qualifying Termination" shall mean (i) a termination by
the Employee of the Employee's employment with Westport for Good Reason within
one year after the occurrence of a Change in Control or (ii) a termination of
Employee's employment without Cause by Westport within one year after the
occurrence of a Change in Control, or (iii) a termination of Employee's
employment without Cause by Westport within six (6) months prior to the date of
a Change in Control if the Employee reasonably demonstrates that such
termination (A) was at the request of a third party who has indicated an
intention or taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control or
(B) otherwise arose in connection with, or in anticipation of, a Change in
Control which has been threatened or proposed provided that, in either case, a
Change in Control shall actually have occurred. Neither a termination of
Employee's employment due to Disability nor a termination of Employee's
employment due to death shall constitute a Qualifying Termination.

         2. Term. If a Change in Control has not occurred within five (5) years
of the date of this Agreement (the "Term"), this Agreement shall automatically
expire. Following the Term, this Agreement may be renewed only by written
agreement of the parties for successive one-year periods. If a Qualifying
Termination occurs during the Term, this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect and shall not terminate until the Employee shall have received the
severance compensation provided hereunder.

         3. Payment of Accrued Compensation upon a Qualifying Termination. If a
Qualifying Termination occurs, the Employee shall immediately be paid all earned
and accrued salary due and owing to the Employee, any bonus compensation to the
extent earned, vested deferred compensation (other than pension plan or profit
sharing plan benefits, which will be paid in accordance with the applicable
plan), any benefits then due under any plans of Westport in which the Employee
is a participant, any accrued and unpaid vacation pay and any appropriate
business expenses incurred by



                                       3

<PAGE>

the Employee in connection with his or her duties, all to the date of
termination (collectively, "Accrued Compensation"). The Employee shall also be
entitled to the severance compensation described in Section 4.

         4. Severance Compensation. The Employee shall be entitled to the
following upon a Qualifying Termination under the conditions set forth below:

                  (a) Condition to Payment of Severance Compensation. Upon the
Employee's execution of a "Release and Confidentiality Agreement" substantially
in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, Westport shall pay to the Employee
severance compensation in an aggregate amount equal to three times the sum of
the Employee's base salary and the Bonus Amount (the "Severance Amount").

                  (b) Computation and Payment of Severance Amount. The Severance
Amount shall be computed by using the higher of the salary paid to the Employee:
(a) immediately preceding the Change in Control, or (b ) immediately preceding
the Employee's Qualifying Termination. The Severance Amount shall be paid
without prejudice to the Employee's right to receive all Accrued Compensation.
The Severance Amount shall be paid to the Employee in a lump sum within thirty
(30) days of the execution of the Release and Confidentiality Agreement. The
Severance Amount shall be paid irrespective of the Employee's employment status
with any other organization or self-employment; provided, however, that if the
Employee should violate the terms of the Release and Confidentiality Agreement,
Westport shall be under no further obligation to continue the payments or
benefits hereunder.

                  (c) Certain Welfare Benefits. For a number of months equal to
thirty-six (36) (the "Continuation Period"), Westport shall at its expense
continue on behalf of the Employee and his or her dependents and beneficiaries
the life insurance, disability, medical, dental and hospitalization coverages
and benefits provided to the Employee immediately prior to the Change in Control
or, if greater, the coverages and benefits provided at any time thereafter. The
coverages and benefits (including deductibles and costs) provided in this
Section 4(c) during the Continuation Period shall be no less favorable to the
Employee and his or her dependents and beneficiaries, than the most favorable of
such coverages and benefits referred to above. Westport's obligation hereunder
with respect to the foregoing coverages and benefits shall be reduced to the
extent that the Employee obtains any such coverages and benefits pursuant to a
subsequent employer's benefit plans, in which case Westport may reduce any of
the coverages or benefits it is required to provide the Employee hereunder so
long as the aggregate coverages and benefits of the combined benefit plans is no
less favorable to the Employee than the coverages and benefits required to be
provided hereunder. Neither this Section 4(c) nor any other provision of this
Agreement shall not be interpreted so as to reduce any amounts otherwise
payable, or in any way diminish the Employee's rights as an employee of
Westport, whether existing now or hereafter, under any benefit, incentive,
retirement, stock option, stock bonus, stock purchase plan, or any employment
agreement or other plan or arrangement.

         5. Equity Grants. Immediately prior to a Change in Control, (i) all
options granted by Westport to the Employee shall be 100% vested and immediately
exercisable, and the exercise term



                                       4

<PAGE>

thereof shall end upon the earlier of: the first anniversary of the date of
termination of employment and the end of the original exercise term, and (ii)
all restrictions shall lapse with respect to all grants of restricted stock held
by Employee.

         6. Excise Tax Limitation.

                  a. Gross-Up Payment. In the event it shall be determined that
any payment or distribution of any type to or for the benefit of the Employee,
by Westport, any Affiliate, any person who acquires ownership or effective
control of Westport or ownership of a substantial portion of Westport's assets
(within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and the regulations thereunder)
or any affiliate of such Person, whether paid or payable or distributed or
distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise (the "Total
Payments"), is or will be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of
the Code or any interest or penalties with respect to such excise tax (such
excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are collectively
referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the Employee shall be entitled to receive
an additional payment (a "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that after
payment by the Employee of all taxes (including any interest or penalties
imposed with respect to such taxes), including any income tax, employment tax or
Excise Tax, imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Employee retains an amount of
the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Total Payments.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6(a), if it shall be
determined that the Employee is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment, but that the
Total Payments would not be subject to the Excise Tax if the Total Payments were
reduced by an amount that is less than 10% of the portion of the Total Payments
that would be treated as "parachute payments" under Section 280G of the Code,
then the amounts payable to the Employee under this Agreement shall be reduced
to the maximum amount that could be paid to the Employee without giving rise to
the Excise Tax (the "Safe Harbor Cap"), and no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to
the Employee. The reduction of the amounts payable hereunder, if applicable,
shall be made by reducing first the payment under Section 4(a), unless an
alternative method of reduction is elected by the Employee. For purposes of
reducing the Total Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, only amounts payable under
this Agreement (and no other amounts) shall be reduced.

                  b. Determination by Accountant. All mathematical
determinations, and all determinations as to whether any of the Total Payments
are "parachute payments" (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code), that
are required to be made under this Section, including determinations as to
whether a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment, the
reduction of the Total Payments to the Safe Harbor Cap, amounts relevant to the
last sentence of this Section 6(b), and the assumptions to be utilized in
arriving at such determinations, shall be made at Westport's expense by an
independent nationally recognized accounting firm selected by Westport (the
"Accounting Firm"). The Accounting Firm shall provide its determination (the
"Determination"), together with detailed supporting calculations and
documentation to Westport and the Employee by no later than ten (10) days
following the Termination Date, if applicable, or such earlier time as is
requested by Westport or the Employee (if the Employee reasonably believes that
any of the Total Payments may be subject to the Excise Tax). If the Accounting
Firm determines that no Excise Tax is payable by the Employee, it shall furnish
the Employee and Westport with a written statement that such Accounting Firm has
concluded that no Excise Tax is payable (including the reasons therefor) and
that the Employee has substantial authority not to report



                                       5

<PAGE>

any Excise Tax on his or her federal income tax return. If a Gross-Up Payment is
determined to be payable, it shall be paid to the Employee within twenty (20)
days after the Determination (and all accompanying calculations and other
material supporting the Determination) is delivered to Westport by the
Accounting Firm. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon
Westport and the Employee, absent manifest error. As a result of uncertainty in
the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the Determination by
the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that Gross-Up Payments not made by
Westport should have been made ("Underpayment"), or that Gross-Up Payments will
have been made by Westport which should not have been made ("Overpayments"). In
either such event, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the
Underpayment or Overpayment that has occurred. In the case of an Underpayment,
the amount of such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by Westport to or for the
benefit of the Employee. In the case of an Overpayment, the Employee shall, at
the direction and expense of Westport, take such steps as are reasonably
necessary (including the filing of returns and claims for refund), follow
reasonable instructions from, and procedures established by, Westport, and
otherwise reasonably cooperate with Westport to correct such Overpayment,
provided, however, that (i) the Employee shall not in any event be obligated to
return to Westport an amount greater than the net after-tax portion of the
Overpayment that he or she has retained or has recovered as a refund from the
applicable taxing authorities and (ii) this provision shall be interpreted in a
manner consistent with the intent to make the Employee whole, on an after-tax
basis, from the application of the Excise Tax, it being understood that the
correction of an Overpayment may result in the Employee repaying to Westport an
amount which is less than the Overpayment.

                  c. The Employee shall notify Westport in writing of any claim
by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment
by Westport of the Gross-up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as
practicable but no later than 10 business days after the Employee is informed in
writing of such claim and shall apprise Westport of the nature of such claim and
the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Employee shall not pay
such claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the date on
which he or she gives such notice to Westport (or such shorter period ending on
the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If
Westport notifies the Employee in writing prior to the expiration of such period
that it desires to contest such claim, the Employee shall:

                           (i) give Westport any information reasonably
                  requested by Westport relating to such claim,

                           (ii) take such action in connection with contesting
                  such claim as Westport shall reasonably request in writing
                  from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting
                  legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney
                  reasonably selected by Westport,

                           (iii) cooperate with Westport in good faith in order
                  effectively to contest such claim, and

                           (iv) permit Westport to participate in any
                  proceedings relating to such claim;



                                       6

<PAGE>

provided, however, that Westport shall bear and pay directly all costs and
expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection
with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Employee harmless, on an
after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax, income tax or employment tax (including
interest and penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such
representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limiting the foregoing
provisions of this Section 6(c), Westport shall control all proceedings taken in
connection with such contest and, at its sole option, may pursue or forgo any
and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the
taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option, either
direct the Employee to pay the tax claimed and sue for a refund or contest the
claim in any permissible manner, and the Employee agrees to prosecute such
contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of
initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as Westport shall
determine; provided, however, that if Westport directs the Employee to pay such
claim and sue for a refund, Westport shall advance the amount of such payment to
the Employee, on an interest-free basis, and shall indemnify and hold the
Employee harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax, income tax or
employment tax (including interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed
with respect to such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect
to such advance; and further provided that any extension of the statute of
limitation relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Employee
with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited
solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, Westport's control of the contest
shall be limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, Westport's
control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which a
Gross-up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Employee shall be entitled
to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal
Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.

         7. Employment Status. This Agreement does not constitute a contract of
employment or impose on the Employee or Westport any obligation to retain the
Employee, or to change the status of the Employee's employment. The Employee
acknowledges that the Employee is an "at-will" employee of Westport, and that
Westport may terminate his or her employment at any time, with or without cause
and with or without notice.

         8. Nature of Rights. The Employee shall have the status of a mere
unsecured creditor of Westport with respect to his or her right to receive any
payment under this Agreement. This Agreement shall constitute a mere promise by
the Company to make payments in the future of the benefits provided for herein.
It is the intention of the parties hereto that the arrangements reflected in
this Agreement shall be treated as unfunded for tax purposes and, if it should
be determined that Title I of ERISA is applicable to this Agreement, for
purposes of Title I of ERISA. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit
the Employee's continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus,
incentive or other plan or program provided by Westport and for which the
Employee may qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or reduce such rights as
the Employee may have under any other agreements with Westport. Amounts which
are vested benefits or which the Employee is otherwise entitled to receive under
any plan or program of Westport shall be payable in accordance with such plan or
program, except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.



                                       7

<PAGE>

         9. Full Settlement. The Company's obligation to provide the payments
and benefits provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its
obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim,
recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have
against the Employee or others. In no event shall the Employee be obligated to
seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the
amounts payable to the Employee under any of the provisions of this Agreement
and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Employee obtains other
employment except as set forth in Section 4(c) with respect to certain welfare
benefits. The Company agrees to pay as incurred, to the full extent permitted by
law, all legal fees and expenses (collectively, "Legal Fees") which the Employee
may reasonably incur as a result of any contest (including as a result of any
contest by the Employee about the amount of any payment pursuant to this
Agreement) by the Company, the Employee or others of the validity or
enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any
guarantee of performance thereof, plus in each case interest on any delayed
payment at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"); provided, however,
that the Company shall not pay the Legal Fees: (A) to the extent they were
incurred with respect to a claim brought by the Employee in bad faith and/or (B)
to the extent they were incurred where a determination has been made (either by
a court or as part of a settlement agreement) that the Employee is not entitled
to substantially all the amounts claimed by Employee whether or not such claims
were made in bad faith.

         10. Miscellaneous.

                  a. Severability. Should a court or other body of competent
jurisdiction determine that any provision of this Agreement is excessive in
scope or otherwise invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be adjusted
rather than voided, if possible, so that it is enforceable to the maximum extent
possible.

                  b. Withholding. All compensation and benefits to the Employee
hereunder shall be reduced by all federal, state, local and other withholdings
and similar taxes and payments required by applicable law.

                  c. Entire Agreement; Modification. This Agreement represents
the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes any prior agreements
between the parties, written or oral, with respect to the subject matter covered
hereby. This Agreement may be amended, modified, superseded or canceled, and any
of the terms hereof may be waived, only by a written instrument executed by each
party hereto or, in the case of a waiver, by the party waiving compliance. The
failure of any party at any time or times to require performance of any
provision hereof shall not affect such party's right at a latter time to enforce
the same. No waiver by any party of the breach of any provision contained in
this Agreement, whether by conduct or otherwise, in any one or more instances,
shall be deemed to be or construed as a further or continuing waiver of any such
breach or of any other term of this Agreement.

                  d. Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be construed under and
governed by the laws of the State of Colorado.



                                       8

<PAGE>

                  e. Successors and Assigns. This Agreement shall be binding
upon, and shall issue to the benefit of, Westport's successors and assigns and
the Employee's heirs and assigns.

                  f. Nontransferability by Employee. Neither this Agreement nor
any right or interest hereunder shall be assignable or transferable by the
Employee, his or her beneficiaries or legal representatives, except by will or
by the laws of descent and distribution.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of
February 1, 2003.

                                    WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION



                                    By:    /s/ DONALD D. WOLF
                                    Name:  Donald D.  Wolf
                                    Title: Chief Executive Officer

                                    EMPLOYEE:


                                    By:    /s/ CARTER G. MATHIES
                                    Name:  Carter G. Mathies
                                    Title: Vice President and General Manager--
                                            Western Division



                                        9

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>d03825exv23w1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS - KPMG
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1

                          Independent Auditors' Consent

The Board of Directors
Westport Resources Corporation:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements
(Nos. 333-42107 and 333-102281) on Form S-3, (No. 333-102705) on Form S-4 and
(Nos. 333-05225, 333-68878 and 333-58338) on Form S-8 of Westport Resources
Corporation (formerly Belco Oil & Gas Corp.) of our report dated February 21,
2003, with respect to the consolidated balance sheet of Westport Resources
Corporation as of December 31, 2002, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for the year ended December 31,
2002, which report appears in the December 31, 2002 annual report on Form 10-K
of Westport Resources Corporation.

/s/ KPMG LLP


Denver, Colorado
March 5, 2003





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.2
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>d03825exv23w2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF RYDER SCOTT COMPANY
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.2


                     [RYDER SCOTT COMPANY, L.P. LETTERHEAD]

                      CONSENT OF RYDER SCOTT COMPANY, L.P.

As independent oil and gas consultants, we hereby consent to the inclusion of
our report letter dated February 8, 2001, our audit letter dated January 29,
2002 and our report letter dated January 22, 2003 (collectively, the "Reserve
Letters"), each addressed to Westport Resources Corporation, in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K of Westport Resources Corporation for the year ended
December 31, 2002 (the "Annual Report"), to all references to our firm and the
Reserve Letters included or made a part of the Annual Report.


/s/ RYDER SCOTT COMPANY, L.P.

Denver, Colorado
March 7, 2003




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.3
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>d03825exv23w3.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF NETHERLAND, SEWELL & ASSOCIATES, INC.
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.3

               [NETHERLAND, SEWELL & ASSOCIATES, INC. LETTERHEAD]


            CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ENGINEERS AND GEOLOGISTS

As independent oil and gas consultants, we hereby consent to the inclusion of
our report letter dated February 9, 2001 and our audit letter dated July 11,
2001 (collectively, the "Reserve Letters"), each addressed to Westport Resources
Corporation, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Westport Resources
Corporation for the year ended December 31, 2002 (the "Annual Report"), to all
references to our firm and the Reserve Letters included or made a part of the
Annual Report.



                                      NETHERLAND, SEWELL & ASSOCIATES, INC.



                                      By: /s/ FREDERIC D. SEWELL
                                          Frederic D. Sewell
                                          Chairman and Chief Executive Officer



Dallas, Texas
March 7, 2003


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>d03825exv99w1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
<TEXT>
<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 99.1


                                CERTIFICATION OF
                     DONALD D. WOLF, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                        OF WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION



This certification is provided pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, and accompanies the annual report on Form 10-K
(the "Form 10-K") for the year ended December 31, 2002 of Westport Resources
Corporation (the "Issuer").

I, Donald D. Wolf, the Chief Executive Officer of the Issuer certify that to the
best of my knowledge:

         (i)      the Form 10-K fully complies with the requirements of section
                  13(a) or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                  (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)); and

         (ii)     the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in
                  all material respects, the financial condition and results of
                  operations of the Issuer.

Dated:  March 7, 2003.

                                      /s/ DONALD D. WOLF
                                      -----------------------------------------
                                      Name: Donald D. Wolf
                                      Title: Chief Executive Officer


Subscribed and sworn to before me
this 7 day of March, 2003.


By:    /s/ KAYLA K. SPARKS
   ----------------------------------
Name:  Kayla K. Sparks
     --------------------------------
Title: Notary Public
      -------------------------------
My commission expires:  1/16/2006
                      ---------------




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.2
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>d03825exv99w2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350
<TEXT>
<PAGE>



                                                                    EXHIBIT 99.2


                                CERTIFICATION OF
                       LON MCCAIN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
                        OF WESTPORT RESOURCES CORPORATION

This certification is provided pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, and accompanies the annual report on Form 10-K
(the "Form 10-K") for the year ended December 31, 2002 of Westport Resources
Corporation (the "Issuer").

I, Lon McCain, the Chief Financial Officer of the Issuer certify that to the
best of my knowledge:

         (i)      the Form 10-K fully complies with the requirements of section
                  13(a) or section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                  (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)); and

         (ii)     the information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in
                  all material respects, the financial condition and results of
                  operations of the Issuer.

Dated:  March 7, 2003.

                                                 /s/ LON MCCAIN
                                                 ------------------------------
                                                 Name: Lon McCain
                                                 Title: Chief Financial Officer


Subscribed and sworn to before me
this 7 day of March, 2003.


By:    /s/ KAYLA K. SPARKS
   ----------------------------------
Name:  Kayla K. Sparks
     --------------------------------
Title: Notary Public
      -------------------------------
My commission expires:  1/16/2006
                      ---------------





</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
