Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Recent Developments  —  Quarterly average oil prices and our quarterly average number of rigs operating in the United States for 2014, 2015 and 2016 are as follows:              1 st           2 nd           3 rd           4 th                 Quarter           Quarter           Quarter           Quarter         2014:                                                                     Average oil price per Bbl (1)       $   98.75           $   103.35           $   97.78           $   73.16         Average rigs operating per day - U.S. (2)           193               201               209               210         2015:                                                                     Average oil price per Bbl (1)       $   48.54           $   57.85           $   46.42           $   41.96         Average rigs operating per day - U.S. (2)           165               122               105               88         2016:                                                                     Average oil price per Bbl (1)       $   33.18           $   45.41           $   44.85           $   49.15         Average rigs operating per day - U.S. (2)           71               55               60               66                                                                               (1) The average oil price represents the average monthly WTI spot price as reported by the United States Energy Information Administration.         (2) A rig is considered to be operating if it is earning revenue pursuant to a contract on a given day.        The closing price of oil was as high as $107.95 per barrel in June 2014.  Prices began to fall in the third quarter of 2014 and reached a twelve-year low of $26.19 in February 2016.  Oil and natural gas prices have recovered substantially from the lows experienced in the first quarter of 2016.  During the fourth quarter of 2016, OPEC and certain non-OPEC countries, including Russia, announced an agreement to cut oil production.  The announcement resulted in an increase in oil prices, which averaged $51.97 per barrel in December 2016.  In response to improved prices, U.S. rig counts have been increasing, and we believe they will continue to increase throughout 2017 if prices for these commodities remain at or above current levels.    Our rig count in the United States declined significantly during the industry downturn that began in late 2014, but has steadily improved on a monthly basis since May 2016.  For the fourth quarter, our average rig count improved to 66 rigs in the United States, up from the third quarter average of 60 rigs.  Our rig count in the United States at December 31, 2016 of 74 rigs was 42% greater than the low of 52 rigs in April 2016; however, it was 65% less than the high of 214 rigs in October 2014.  Term contracts have supported our operating rig count during the last three years.  Based on contracts currently in place, we expect an average of 44 rigs operating under term contracts during the first quarter of 2017 and an average of 37 rigs operating under term contracts throughout 2017.  Activity levels in our pressure pumping business have also improved.  Looking forward, we expect to see further increases in activity across the industry, especially in the Permian Basin.  We have reactivated two frac spreads since mid-December 2016 at a cost of approximately $2 million per spread, including both operating and capital expenditures.  Approximately 45% of the more than one million hydraulic fracturing horsepower in our fleet remains stacked.  We expect the cost to reactivate our remaining idle frac spreads would be approximately $3 million per frac spread, including both operating and capital expenditures.  On December 12, 2016, we entered into the merger agreement with SSE, pursuant to which a subsidiary of ours will be merged with and into SSE, with SSE continuing as the surviving entity and one of our wholly owned subsidiaries.  Under the merger agreement, we will acquire all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of SSE in exchange for approximately 49.6 million shares of our common stock, subject to certain downward adjustments set forth in the merger agreement.  SSE provides contract drilling, pressure pumping and oilfield rental services in many of the most active oil and natural gas plays onshore in the United States.  SSE owns a fleet of 40 AC drilling rigs, approximately 93% of which are pad capable, including 28 fit-for purpose PeakeRigs™.  The remainder of SSE’s rig fleet includes 51 SCR rigs.  Additionally, SSE owns approximately 500,000 horsepower of modern, efficient fracturing equipment located in the Anadarko Basin and Eagle Ford Shale.  The SSE oilfield rentals business has a modern, well-maintained fleet of premium rental tools, and provides specialized services for land-based oil and natural gas drilling, completion and workover activities.  The completion of the SSE merger is subject to satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions, including, but not limited to, approval by our and SSE’s respective stockholders and other closing conditions set forth in the merger agreement. Subject to closing conditions, the SSE merger is expected to be completed late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2017.  26   Management Overview  — We are a  Houston, Texas-based oilfield  services  company that  primarily  owns and operates in the United States one of the largest fleets of land-based drilling rigs  and  a large fleet of pres sure pumping equipment.  Our contract drilling business operates in the continental United States and western Canada, and we are pursuing contract drilling opportunities outside of North America.  Our pressure pumping business operates primarily in Texas a nd the Appalachian region.  We  also  manufacture and sell  pipe handling  components and related  technology to drilling contractors  in North America and other select markets.  In addition, we own and invest, as a non-operating working interest owner, in oil a nd natural gas assets that are primarily located in Texas and New Mexico .    There continues to be uncertainty with respect to the global economic environment, and oil and natural gas prices have been depressed.  During the fourth quarter of 2016, our average number of rigs operating in the United States was 66 compared to an average of 88 drilling rigs operating during the same period in 2015.  During the fourth quarter of 2016, our average number of rigs operating in Canada was two compared to an average of three drilling rigs operating during the fourth quarter of 2015.   We have addressed our customers’ needs for drilling horizontal wells in shale and other unconventional resource plays by expanding our areas of operation and improving the capabilities of our drilling fleet during the last several years.  As of December 31, 2016, our rig fleet included 161 APEX ®  rigs.  We expect to add two new APEX ®  rigs to our fleet during 2017.   In connection with the development of horizontal shale and other unconventional resource plays, we have added equipment to perform service intensive fracturing jobs.  As of December 31, 2016, we had approximately 1.1 million hydraulic horsepower in our pressure pumping fleet (approximately 1.0 million of which was hydraulic fracturing horsepower).  We have increased the horsepower of our pressure pumping fleet by more than eight-fold since the beginning of 2009, although we have not ordered or committed to purchase any new horsepower since October 2014 and there is currently no new horsepower on order.  In recent years, the industry-wide addition of new pressure pumping equipment to the marketplace and lower oil and natural gas prices have led to an excess supply of pressure pumping equipment in North America.  We maintain a backlog of commitments for contract drilling revenues under term contracts, which we define as contracts with a fixed term of six months or more.  Our contract drilling backlog as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $417 million and $710 million, respectively.  The decrease in backlog at December 31, 2016 from December 31, 2015, is primarily due to the revenue earned since December 31, 2015, including revenue from the receipt of early termination payments, and the expiration and termination of certain of our term contracts.  Approximately 29% of the total December 31, 2016 backlog is reasonably expected to remain after 2017.  We generally calculate our backlog by multiplying the dayrate under our term drilling contracts by the number of days remaining under the contract.  The calculation does not include any revenues related to other fees such as for mobilization, demobilization and customer reimbursables, nor does it include potential reductions in rates for unscheduled standby or during periods in which the rig is moving or incurring maintenance and repair time in excess of what is permitted under the drilling contract.  In addition, our term drilling contracts are generally subject to termination by the customer on short notice and provide for an early termination payment to us in the event that the contract is terminated by the customer.  For contracts that we have received an early termination notice, our backlog calculation includes the early termination rate, instead of the dayrate, for the period we expect to receive the lower rate.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Our Current Backlog of Contract Drilling Revenue May Continue to Decline and May Not Ultimately Be Realized, as Fixed-Term Contracts May in Certain Instances Be Terminated Without an Early Termination Payment.”    For the three years ended December 31, 2016, our operating revenues consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):                  2016           2015           2014         Contract drilling       $   543,663               59   %       $   1,153,892               61   %       $   1,838,830               58   %     Pressure pumping           354,070               39   %           712,454               38   %           1,293,265               41   %     Other           18,133               2   %           24,931               1   %           50,196               1   %             $   915,866               100   %       $   1,891,277               100   %       $   3,182,291               100   %       Generally, the profitability of our business is most impacted by two primary factors in our contract drilling segment: our average number of rigs operating and our average revenue per operating day.  During 2016, our average number of rigs operating was 63 in the United States and two in Canada compared to 120 in the United States and four in Canada in 2015, and 203 in the United States and eight in Canada in 2014.  Our average rig revenue per operating day was $23,040 in 2016 compared to $25,560 in 2015 and $23,880 in 2014.  We had a consolidated net loss of $319 million for 2016 compared to consolidated net loss of $294 million for 2015 and consolidated net income of $163 million for 2014.  The financial results for 2015 include pretax non-cash charges totaling approximately $288 million.  These charges include $125 million from the impairment of all goodwill associated with our pressure pumping business, $131 million from the write-down of drilling equipment primarily related to mechanical rigs and spare mechanical rig components, $22.0 from the write-down of pressure pumping equipment and closed facilities and $10.7 million related to the impairment of certain oil and natural gas properties.   The financial results for 2014 include a pretax non-cash charge of $77.9 million related to the retirement of mechanical rigs and the write-off of excess spare components.   27   Our revenues, profitability and cash flows are highly dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas.  During periods of improved commodity pric es, the capital spending budgets of oil and natural gas operators tend to expand, which generally results in increased demand for our services.  Conversely, in periods when these commodity prices deteriorate, the demand for our services generally weakens a nd we experience downward pressure on pricing for our services.  Oil and natural gas prices and our number of rigs operating have  significantly  declined from  2014 .  In December 201 6 , our average number of rigs operating was  71  in the United  States .  In  January 201 7 , our average number of rigs operating  in creased to  7 6  in the United States.     We are also highly impacted by operational risks, competition, the availability of excess equipment, labor issues, weather and various other factors that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations.  Please see “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Report.    Critical Accounting Policies   In addition to established accounting policies, our consolidated financial statements are impacted by certain estimates and assumptions made by management.  The following is a discussion of our critical accounting policies pertaining to property and equipment, goodwill, revenue recognition, the use of estimates and oil and natural gas properties.    Property and equipment  — Property and equipment, including betterments which extend the useful life of the asset, are stated at cost.  Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense when incurred.  We provide for the depreciation of our property and equipment using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives.  Our method of depreciation does not change when equipment becomes idle; we continue to depreciate idled equipment on a straight-line basis.  No provision for salvage value is considered in determining depreciation of our property and equipment.    On a periodic basis, we evaluate our fleet of drilling rigs for marketability based on the condition of inactive rigs, expenditures that would be necessary to bring them to working condition and the expected demand for drilling services by rig type (such as drilling conventional, vertical wells versus drilling longer, horizontal wells using higher specification rigs).  The components comprising rigs that will no longer be marketed are evaluated, and those components with continuing utility to our other marketed rigs are transferred to other rigs or to our yards to be used as spare equipment.  The remaining components of these rigs will be retired.   In 2016, we retired 19 mechanical rigs but recorded no impairment charge as we had written down 15 of those rigs in 2015 that remained marketed.   In 2015, we identified 24 mechanical rigs and 9 non-APEX® electric rigs that would no longer be marketed.  Also, we had 15 additional mechanical rigs that were not operating.  Although these 15 rigs remained marketed at that time, we had lower expectations with respect to utilization of these rigs due to the industry shift to higher specification drilling rigs.  In 2015, we recorded a charge of $131 million related to the retirement of the 33 rigs, the 15 mechanical rigs that remained marketed but were not operating, and the write-down of excess spare rig components to their realizable values.  In 2014, we identified 55 mechanical rigs that we determined would no longer be marketed, and we recorded a charge of $77.9 million related to the retirement of these mechanical rigs and the write-off of excess spare components for the reduced size of our mechanical fleet.    We also periodically evaluate our pressure pumping assets, and in 2015, we recorded a charge of $22.0 million for the write-down of pressure pumping equipment and certain closed facilities.  There were no similar charges in 2016 or 2014.  We review our long-lived assets, including property and equipment, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values of certain assets may not be recovered over their estimated remaining useful lives (“triggering events”).  In connection with this review, assets are grouped at the lowest level at which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of other asset groupings.  The cyclical nature of our industry has resulted in fluctuations in rig utilization over periods of time.  Management believes that the contract drilling industry will continue to be cyclical and rig utilization will continue to fluctuate.  We estimate future cash flows over the life of the respective assets or asset groupings in our assessment of impairment.  These estimates of cash flows are based on historical cyclical trends in the industry as well as management’s expectations regarding the continuation of these trends in the future.  Provisions for asset impairment are charged against income when estimated future cash flows, on an undiscounted basis, are less than the asset’s net book value.  Any provision for impairment is measured at fair value.    Based on recent commodity prices, our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 and management’s expectations of operating results in future periods, we concluded that no triggering events occurred during the year ended December 31, 2016 with respect to our contract drilling or pressure pumping segments.  Our expectations of future operating results were based on the assumption that activity levels in both segments will begin to recover by early 2017 in response to improved future oil prices.    During the third quarter of 2015, oil prices declined and averaged $46.42 per barrel, reaching a new low for 2015 of $38.22 per barrel in August 2015.  In light of these lower oil prices in August, we lowered our expectations with respect to future activity levels in both the contract drilling and pressure pumping businesses.   As a result of these revised expectations of the duration of the lower oil and natural gas commodity price environment and the related deterioration of the markets for contract drilling and pressure pumping services during the third quarter of 2015, we concluded a triggering event had occurred and deemed it necessary to assess the recoverability of long-lived asset groups for both contract drilling and pressure pumping.  We performed a Step 1 analysis as required   28   by ASC 360-10-35 to assess the recoverability of long-li ved assets  within   our  contract drilling and pressure pumping segments.  With respect to these assets, future cash flows were estimated over the expected remaining life of the assets, and we determined that, on an undiscounted basis, expected cash flows exc eeded the carrying value of the long-lived assets, and no impairment was indicated.   Expected cash flows, on an undiscounted basis, exceeded the carrying values of the long-lived assets within the contract drilling and pressure pumping segments by approxim ate ly 120% and 60%, respectively.    Due to the continued deterioration of crude oil prices in the fourth quarter of 2015, we deemed it necessary to once again assess the recoverability of long-lived assets groups for both contract drilling and pressure pumping.  We performed a Step 1 analysis as required by ASC 360-10-35 to assess the recoverability of long-lived assets within our contract drilling and pressure pumping segments.  With respect to these assets, future cash flows were estimated over the expected remaining life of the assets, and we determined that, on an undiscounted basis, expected cash flows exceeded the carrying value of the long-lived assets, and no impairment was indicated.  Expected cash flows, on an undiscounted basis, exceeded the carrying values of the long-lived assets within the contract drilling and pressure pumping segments by approximately 120% and 100%, respectively.    For both of the assessments performed in 2015, the expected cash flows for the contract drilling segment included the backlog of commitments for contract drilling revenues under term contracts, which was approximately $801 million and $710 million at September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively.   Rigs not under term contracts would be subject to pricing in the spot market.  Utilization and rates for rigs in the spot market and for the pressure pumping segment were estimated based upon our historical experience in prior downturns.  Also, the expected cash flows for the contract drilling and pressure pumping segments were based on the assumption that activity levels in both segments would begin to recover in the first quarter of 2017 in response to improved oil prices.   While we believe these assumptions with respect to future pricing for oil and natural gas are reasonable, actual future prices may vary significantly from the ones that were assumed.  The timeframe over which oil and natural gas prices will recover is highly uncertain.  Potential events that could affect our assumptions regarding future prices and the timeframe for a recovery are affected by factors such as:          •   market supply and demand,          •   the desire and ability of OPEC to set and maintain production and price targets,          •   the level of production by OPEC and non-OPEC countries          •   domestic and international military, political, economic and weather conditions,          •   legal and other limitations or restrictions on exportation and/or importation of oil and natural gas,          •   technical advances affecting energy consumption and production,          •   the price and availability of alternative fuels,          •   the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and delivering oil and natural gas, and           •   regulations regarding the exploration, development, production and delivery of oil and natural gas.     All of these factors are beyond our control. If the current oil and natural gas commodity price environment were to last through 2017 and beyond, our actual cash flows would likely be less than the expected cash flows used in the aforementioned 2015 assessments and could result in impairment charges in the future, and any such impairment charges could be material.    We concluded that no triggering events occurred during the year ended December 31, 2014 with respect to our contract drilling or pressure pumping segments based on our results of the operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 and the prevailing commodity prices at that time.  Goodwill  — Goodwill is considered to have an indefinite useful economic life and is not amortized.   Goodwill is evaluated at least annually as of December 31, or when circumstances require, to determine if the fair value of recorded goodwill has decreased below its carrying value.  For purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is evaluated at the reporting unit level.  Our reporting units for impairment testing have been determined to be our operating segments.  We first determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value after considering qualitative, market and other factors, and if so, the resulting goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step quantitative impairment test.  From time to time, we may perform the first step of the quantitative testing for goodwill impairment in lieu of performing the qualitative assessment.  The first step of the quantitative testing is to compare the fair value of an entity’s reporting units to the respective carrying value of those reporting units.  If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the quantitative testing is performed whereby the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to its identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, with any remaining fair value representing the fair value of goodwill.  If this resulting fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying value of goodwill, an impairment loss would be recognized in the amount of such shortfall.  29   In connection with our annual goodwill impairment assessment as of December 31, 2016, we determined based on an assessment of qualitative f actors that it was more likely than not that the fair values of our  contract drilling  reporting unit w as  greater than  its  carrying amount and further testing was not necessary.  In making this determination, we considered the demand experienced during 2016  for our contract drilling business.  We also considered the current and expected levels of commodity prices for oil and natural gas, which influence the overall level of business activity in this  reporting unit, as well as its  operating results for 2016 a nd forecasted operating results for 2017.   Lastly, management considered o ur overall market capitalization  at December 31, 2016  and the  significant  amount of calculated excess of the fair value of our reporting unit over  its  carrying value from our 2015 qu antitative  impairment  assessment of goodwill.   During the third quarter of 2015, oil prices declined and averaged $46.42 per barrel, reaching a new low for 2015 of $38.22 per barrel in August 2015.  In light of these lower oil prices in August, we lowered our expectations with respect to future activity levels in both the contract drilling and pressure pumping businesses.  As a result of our revised expectations of the duration of the lower oil and natural gas commodity price environment and the related deterioration of the markets for our contract drilling and pressure pumping services, we performed a quantitative Step 1 impairment assessment of our goodwill as of September 30, 2015.  In completing the Step 1 assessment, the fair value of each reporting unit was estimated using both the income and market valuation methods. The estimate of the fair value of each reporting unit required the use of significant unobservable inputs, representative of a Level 3 fair value measurement.  The inputs included assumptions related to the future performance of our contract drilling and pressure pumping reporting units, such as future oil and natural gas prices and projected demand for our services, and assumptions related to discount rates, long-term growth rates and control premiums.  Based on the results of the Step 1 goodwill impairment test as of September 30, 2015, the fair value of the contract drilling reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by approximately 15%, and we concluded that no impairment was indicated in our contract drilling reporting unit; however, impairment was indicated in our pressure pumping reporting unit.  In the third quarter of 2015, we recognized an impairment charge of $125 million associated with the impairment of all of the goodwill in our pressure pumping reporting unit.     In connection with our annual goodwill impairment assessment as of December 31, 2015, we performed a quantitative Step 1 impairment assessment of the goodwill in our contract drilling reporting unit.  In completing the Step 1 assessment, the fair value of the contract drilling reporting unit was estimated using both the income and market valuation methods.  The estimate of the fair value of the reporting unit required the use of significant unobservable inputs, representative of a Level 3 fair value measurement.  The inputs included assumptions related to the future performance of our contract drilling reporting unit, such as future oil and natural gas prices and projected demand for our services, and assumptions related to discount rates, long-term growth rates and control premiums.  Based on the results of the quantitative Step 1 impairment assessment of our goodwill, as of December 31, 2015, the fair value of our contract drilling reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by approximately 16%, and we concluded that no impairment was indicated in our contract drilling reporting unit.  In connection with our annual goodwill impairment assessment as of December 31, 2014, we determined based on an assessment of qualitative factors that it was more likely than not that the fair values of our reporting units were greater than their respective carrying amounts and no further testing was deemed necessary.  In making this determination, we considered the continued demand experienced during 2014 for our contract drilling and pressure pumping businesses.  We also considered the current and expected levels of commodity prices for oil and natural gas, which influence the overall level of business activity in these reporting units.  Additionally, operating results for 2014 and forecasted operating results for 2015 were also taken into account.  Lastly, management considered our overall market capitalization at December 31, 2014 and the large amount of calculated excess of the fair values of our reporting units over their respective carrying values from our 2013 quantitative impairment assessment.    We have undertaken extensive efforts in the past several years to upgrade our fleet of equipment and believe that we are well-positioned from a competitive standpoint to satisfy demand for high technology drilling of unconventional horizontal wells, which should help mitigate decreases in demand for drilling conventional vertical wells.  In the event that market conditions were to remain weak for a protracted period, we may be required to record an impairment of goodwill in our contract drilling reporting unit in future periods, and any such impairment could be material.    Revenue recognition  — Revenues from daywork drilling and pressure pumping activities are recognized as services are performed.  Expenditures reimbursed by customers are recognized as revenue and the related expenses are recognized as direct costs.  All of the wells we drilled in 2016, 2015 and 2014 were drilled under daywork contracts.    Use of estimates  — The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from such estimates.    30   Key estim ates used by management include:           •   allowance for doubtful accounts,           •   depreciation, depletion and amortization,           •   fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in acquisitions,           •   goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, and           •   reserves for self-insured levels of insurance coverage.    Oil and natural gas properties  — Working interests in oil and natural gas properties are accounted for using the successful efforts method of accounting.  Under the successful efforts method of accounting, exploration costs which result in the discovery of oil and natural gas reserves and all development costs are capitalized to the appropriate well.  Exploration costs which do not result in discovering oil and natural gas reserves are charged to expense when such determination is made.  Costs of exploratory wells are initially capitalized to wells-in-progress until the outcome of the drilling is known.  We review wells-in-progress quarterly to determine whether sufficient progress is being made in assessing the reserves and economic viability of the respective projects.  If no progress has been made in assessing the reserves and economic viability of a project after one year following the completion of drilling, we consider the well costs to be impaired and recognize the costs as expense.  Geological and geophysical costs, including seismic costs and costs to carry and retain undeveloped properties, are charged to expense when incurred.  The capitalized costs of both developmental and successful exploratory type wells, consisting of lease and well equipment and intangible development costs, are depreciated, depleted and amortized using the units-of-production method, based on engineering estimates of total proved developed oil and natural gas reserves for each respective field.  Oil and natural gas leasehold acquisition costs are depreciated, depleted and amortized using the units-of-production method, based on engineering estimates of total proved oil and natural gas reserves for each respective field.    We review our proved oil and natural gas properties for impairment whenever a triggering event occurs, such as downward revisions in reserve estimates or decreases in expected future oil and natural gas prices.  Proved properties are grouped by field and undiscounted cash flow estimates are prepared based on our expectation of future pricing over the lives of the respective fields.  These cash flow estimates are reviewed by an independent petroleum engineer.  If the net book value of a field exceeds its undiscounted cash flow estimate, impairment expense is measured and recognized as the difference between net book value and fair value.  The fair value estimates used in measuring impairment are based on internally developed unobservable inputs including reserve volumes and future production, pricing and operating costs (Level 3 inputs in the fair value hierarchy of fair value accounting).  The expected future net cash flows are discounted using an annual rate of 10% to determine fair value.  We review unproved oil and natural gas properties quarterly to assess potential impairment.  Our impairment assessment is made on a lease-by-lease basis and considers factors such as our intent to drill, lease terms and abandonment of an area.  If an unproved property is determined to be impaired, the related property costs are expensed.  Impairment expense related to both proved and unproved oil and natural gas properties totaled approximately $2.8 million, $10.7 million and $20.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and such amounts are included in depreciation, depletion, amortization and impairment in the consolidated statements of operations.    For additional information on our accounting policies, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included as a part of Item 8 of this Report.    Liquidity and Capital Resources   Our liquidity as of December 31, 2016 included approximately $18.5 million in working capital and $500 million available under our revolving credit facility.    On January 24, 2017, we entered into an agreement with certain lenders under our revolving credit facility pursuant to which we exercised approximately $95.8 million of the $100 million commitment increase feature available thereunder in order to increase the aggregate commitments under our revolving credit facility to approximately $595.8 million.  The effectiveness of the aggregate commitment increase is subject to certain conditions, including the consummation of the SSE merger and the repayment and termination of the SSE credit facility, as well as other customary conditions.  On January 27, 2017, we completed an offering of 18.2 million shares of our common stock, and we intend to use the net proceeds from this offering of approximately $470 million to fund the repayment of SSE’s outstanding net indebtedness upon closing of the SSE merger.  If the SSE merger is not consummated, we intend to use the net proceeds of the offering for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of outstanding indebtedness or investments in working capital.   31   We believe our current liquidity ,  together with cash expected to be generated from operations  in 2017 , should provide us with sufficient ability to fund our current plans to  maintain and  make improv ements to our existing equipment, service our debt and pay cash dividends  for at least the next 12 months .  If under current market conditions we desire to pursue opportunities for growth , in addition to the SSE merger,  that require capital, we believe we  would likely require additional debt or equity financing.  However, there can be no assurance that such capital will be available on reasonable terms, if at all.     As of December 31, 2016, we had working capital of $18.5 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $35.2 million, compared to working capital of $179 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $113 million, at December 31, 2015.    During 2016, our sources of cash flow included:           •   $305 million from operating activities, and          •   $21.9 million in proceeds from the disposal of property and equipment.  During 2016, we used $255 million to repay long-term debt, $23.6 million to pay dividends on our common stock, $3.6 million to acquire shares of our common stock, $3.4 million to pay debt issuance costs and $120 million:           •   to build and acquire components to build new drilling rigs,          •   to purchase new pressure pumping equipment,           •   to make capital expenditures for the betterment and refurbishment of existing drilling rigs and pressure pumping equipment,           •   to acquire and procure equipment and facilities for our drilling and pressure pumping operations, and           •   to fund investments in oil and natural gas properties on a non-operating working interest basis.    We paid cash dividends during the year ended December 31, 2016 as follows:                  Per Share           Total                                 (in thousands)         Paid on March 24, 2016       $   0.10           $   14,712         Paid on June 23, 2016           0.02               2,953         Paid on September 22, 2016           0.02               2,953         Paid on December 22, 2016           0.02               2,961         Total cash dividends       $   0.16           $   23,579           On February 8, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a cash dividend on our common stock in the amount of $0.02 per share to be paid on March 22, 2017 to holders of record as of March 8, 2017.  The amount and timing of all future dividend payments, if any, are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon business conditions, results of operations, financial condition, terms of our debt agreements and other factors.  The merger agreement prohibits us (unless consented to in advance by SSE, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned) from paying dividends to holders of our common stock in excess of $0.02 per share per quarter until the earlier of the effective time of the SSE merger and the termination of the merger agreement in accordance with its terms.  On September 6, 2013, our Board of Directors approved a stock buyback program that authorizes purchase of up to $200 million of our common stock in open market or privately negotiated transactions.  As of December 31, 2016, we had remaining authorization to purchase approximately $187 million of our outstanding common stock under the 2013 stock buyback program.  Shares purchased under a buyback program are accounted for as treasury stock.    We acquired shares of stock from directors in 2016 and from employees during 2016, 2015 and 2014 that are accounted for as treasury stock.  Certain of these shares were acquired to satisfy the exercise price in connection with the exercise of stock options.  The remainder of these shares was acquired to satisfy payroll tax withholding obligations upon the exercise of stock options, the settlement of performance unit awards and the vesting of restricted stock.  These shares were acquired at fair market value.  These acquisitions were made pursuant to the terms of the Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan or the Patterson-UTI Energy, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan and not pursuant to the stock buyback program.    32   Treasury stock acquisitions during the year s  ended December 31, 201 6 , 201 5  and 201 4  were as follows (dollars in thousands):                  2016           2015           2014                 Shares           Cost           Shares           Cost           Shares           Cost         Treasury shares at beginning of period           43,207,240           $   907,045               42,818,585           $   899,035               42,268,057           $   880,888         Purchases pursuant to 2013 stock buyback program           8,488               183               8,618               180               13,898               466         Acquisitions pursuant to long-term incentive plans           176,889               3,866               380,037               7,830               536,630               17,681         Treasury shares at end of period           43,392,617           $   911,094               43,207,240           $   907,045               42,818,585           $   899,035           2012 Credit Agreement  — On September 27, 2012, we entered into a Credit Agreement (“Base Credit Agreement”).  The Base Credit Agreement (as amended, the “Credit Agreement”) is a committed senior unsecured credit facility that includes a revolving credit facility.   On July 8, 2016, we entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement (“Amendment No. 2”), which amended the Base Credit Agreement.  The revolving credit facility permits aggregate borrowings of up to $500 million outstanding at any time, subject to a borrowing base calculated by reference to ours and certain of our subsidiaries’ eligible equipment, inventory, accounts receivable and unencumbered cash as described in Amendment No. 2.  The revolving credit facility contains a letter of credit facility that is limited to $50 million and a swing line facility that is limited to $20 million, in each case outstanding at any time.  Subject to customary conditions, we may request that the lenders’ aggregate commitments with respect to the revolving credit facility be increased by up to $100 million, not to exceed total commitments of $600 million.  The maturity date under the Base Credit Agreement was September 27, 2017 for the revolving credit facility; however, Amendment No. 2 extended the maturity date of $357.9 million in revolving credit commitments of certain lenders to March 27, 2019.    The term loan facility included in the Base Credit Agreement, which facility was terminated in connection with Amendment No. 2, provided for a loan of $100 million, which was drawn on December 24, 2012 and was payable in quarterly principal installments.  As a condition precedent, Amendment No. 2 required that we repay the entire outstanding principal amount of this term loan.    Loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest by reference, at our election, to the LIBOR rate or base rate, provided, that swing line loans bear interest by reference only to the base rate.  Until September 27, 2017, the applicable margin on LIBOR rate loans varies from 2.75% to 3.25% and the applicable margin on base rate loans varies from 1.75% to 2.25%, in each case determined based upon our debt to capitalization ratio.  Beginning September 27, 2017, the applicable margin on LIBOR rate loans varies from 3.25% to 3.75% and the applicable margin on base rate loans varies from 2.25% to 2.75%, in each case determined based on our availability under the credit facility.  As of December 31, 2016, the applicable margin on LIBOR rate loans was 2.75% and the applicable margin on base rate loans was 1.75%.  Based on our debt to capitalization ratio at September 30, 2016, the applicable margin on LIBOR loans is 2.75% and the applicable margin on base rate loans is 1.75% as of January 1, 2017.  Based on our debt to capitalization ratio at December 31, 2016, the applicable margin on LIBOR loans will be 2.75% and the applicable margin on base rate loans will be 1.75% as of April 1, 2017.  A letter of credit fee is payable by us equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR rate loans times the daily amount available to be drawn under outstanding letters of credit.  The commitment fee rate payable to the lenders for the unused portion of the credit facility is 0.50%.   Each of our domestic subsidiaries unconditionally guarantees all existing and future indebtedness and liabilities of the other guarantors and ours arising under the Credit Agreement, other than (a) Ambar Lone Star Fluid Services LLC, (b) domestic subsidiaries that directly or indirectly have no material assets other than equity interests in, or capitalization indebtedness owed by, foreign subsidiaries, and (c) any subsidiary having total assets of less than $1 million.  Such guarantees also cover our or any of our subsidiaries arising under any interest rate swap contract with any person while such person is a lender or an affiliate of a lender under the Credit Agreement.  The Credit Agreement requires compliance with two financial covenants.  We must not permit our debt to capitalization ratio to exceed 40%.  The Credit Agreement generally defines the debt to capitalization ratio as the ratio of (a) total borrowed money indebtedness to (b) the sum of such indebtedness plus consolidated net worth, with consolidated net worth determined as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter.  We also must not permit our interest coverage ratio as of the last day of a fiscal quarter to be less than 3.00 to 1.00.  The Credit Agreement generally defines the interest coverage ratio as the ratio of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) of the four prior fiscal quarters to interest charges for the same period.  We were in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2016.    33   Amendment No . 2  limits  our  ability to make investments in foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures such that, if the book value of all such investments since September 27, 2012 is above 20% of the total  consolidated  book value of  our consolidated assets  on a pro forma b asis,  we  will not be able to make such investment.  Amendment No. 2 also  restricts  our  ability to pay dividends and make equity repurchases, subject to certain exceptions, including an exception allowing such restricted payments if before and immediately a fter giving effect to such restricted payment, the Pro Forma Debt Service Coverage Ratio (as defined in Amendment No. 2) is at least 1.50 to 1.00.  In addition, Amendment No. 2  requires that, if  our  consolidated cash balance, subject to certain exclusions,  is more than $100 million at the end of the day on which a borrowing is made,  we  can only use the proceeds from such borrowing to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures and the repurchase of indebtedness, and if such proceeds are not used in such manner  within three business days,  we  must repay such unused proceeds on the fourth business day following such borrowings.  Amendment No. 2 also decreased the permitted amount of certain secured indebtedness of  us  and  our  subsidiaries and decreased the permitted amount of certain unsecured indebtedness of  our  subsidiaries.  The Credit Agreement also contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative and negative covenants.  We do not expect that the restrictions and covenants will impair, in any material respect, our ability to operate or react to opportunities that might arise.  Events of default under the Credit Agreement include failure to pay principal or interest when due, failure to comply with the financial and operational covenants, as well as a cross default event, loan document enforceability event, change of control event and bankruptcy and other insolvency events.  If an event of default occurs and is continuing, then a majority of the lenders have the right, among others, to (i) terminate the commitments under the Credit Agreement, (ii) accelerate and require us to repay all the outstanding amounts owed under any loan document (provided that in limited circumstances with respect to our insolvency and bankruptcy, such acceleration is automatic), and (iii) require us to cash collateralize any outstanding letters of credit.   As of December 31, 2016, we had no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility, with available borrowing capacity of $500 million.   On January 17, 2017, we entered into Amendment No. 3 to Credit Agreement (“Amendment No. 3”), which amended the Credit Agreement by restating the definition of Consolidated EBITDA to provide for the add-back of transaction expenses related to the SSE merger.    On January 24, 2017, we entered into an agreement with certain lenders under our revolving credit facility pursuant to which we exercised approximately $95.8 million of the $100 million commitment increase feature available thereunder in order to increase the aggregate commitments under our revolving credit facility to approximately $595.8 million.  The effectiveness of the aggregate commitment increase is subject to certain conditions, including the consummation of the SSE merger and the repayment and termination of the SSE credit facility, as well as other customary conditions.  2015 Reimbursement Agreement  — On March 16, 2015, we entered into a Reimbursement Agreement (the “Reimbursement Agreement”) with The Bank of Nova Scotia (“Scotiabank”), pursuant to which we may from time to time request that Scotiabank issue an unspecified amount of letters of credit.  As of December 31, 2016, we had $38.2 million in letters of credit outstanding under the Reimbursement Agreement.  Under the terms of the Reimbursement Agreement, we will reimburse Scotiabank on demand for any amounts that Scotiabank has disbursed under any letters of credit.  Fees, charges and other reasonable expenses for the issuance of letters of credit are payable by us at the time of issuance at such rates and amounts as are in accordance with Scotiabank’s prevailing practice.  We are obligated to pay to Scotiabank interest on all amounts not paid on the date of demand or when otherwise due at the LIBOR rate plus 2.25% per annum, calculated daily and payable monthly, in arrears, on the basis of a calendar year for the actual number of days elapsed, with interest on overdue interest at the same rate as on the reimbursement amounts.  We have also agreed that if obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured by liens on any of our subsidiaries’ property, then our reimbursement obligations and (to the extent similar obligations would be secured under the Credit Agreement) other obligations under the Reimbursement Agreement and any letters of credit will be equally and ratably secured by all property subject to such liens securing the Credit Agreement.  Pursuant to a Continuing Guaranty dated as of March 16, 2015 (the “Continuing Guaranty”), our payment obligations under the Reimbursement Agreement are jointly and severally guaranteed as to payment and not as to collection by our subsidiaries that from time to time guarantee payment under the Credit Agreement.  34   2015 Term Loan Agreement  — On March 18, 2015,  we  entered into a Term Loan Agree ment (the “2015 Term Loan Agreement”).    The 2015 Term Loan Agreement was a senior unsecured single-advance term loan facility pursuant to which  we  made a term loan borrowing of $200 million on March 18, 2015 (the “Term Loan Borrowing”).  The Term Loan Borrowing was payable in quarterly principal installments, together with accrued interest.  Loans under the 2015 Term Loan Agreement bore interest, at   our  election, at the per annum rate of LIBOR rate plus 3.25% or base rate plus 2.25%.  As a condition precedent to Amendment No 2, we repaid the entire outstanding principal amount under the 2015 Term Loan Agreement and terminated the agreement on July 8, 2016.  Senior Notes —   On October 5, 2010, we completed the issuance and sale of $300 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.97% Series A Senior Notes due October 5, 2020 (the “Series A Notes”) in a private placement.  The Series A Notes bear interest at a rate of 4.97% per annum.  We pay interest on the Series A Notes on April 5 and October 5 of each year.  The Series A Notes will mature on October 5, 2020.    On June 14, 2012, we completed the issuance and sale of $300 million in aggregate principal amounts of our 4.27% Series B Senior Notes due June 14, 2022 (the “Series B Notes”) in a private placement.  The Series B Notes bear interest at a rate of 4.27% per annum.  We pay interest on the Series B Notes on April 5 and October 5 of each year.  The Series B Notes will mature on June 14, 2022.    The Series A Notes and Series B Notes are senior unsecured obligations, which rank equally in right of payment with all of our other unsubordinated indebtedness.  The Series A Notes and Series B Notes are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by each of our domestic subsidiaries other than subsidiaries that are not required to be guarantors under the Credit Agreement.   The Series A Notes and Series B Notes are prepayable at our option, in whole or in part, provided that in the case of a partial prepayment, prepayment must be in an amount not less than 5% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding, at any time and from time to time at 100% of the principal amount prepaid, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the prepayment date, plus a “make-whole” premium as specified in the note purchase agreements.  We must offer to prepay the notes upon the occurrence of any change of control.  In addition, we must offer to prepay the notes upon the occurrence of certain asset dispositions if the proceeds therefrom are not timely reinvested in productive assets.  If any offer to prepay is accepted, the purchase price of each prepaid note is 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the prepayment date.    The respective note purchase agreements require compliance with two financial covenants.  We must not permit our debt to capitalization ratio to exceed 50% at any time.  The note purchase agreements generally define the debt to capitalization ratio as the ratio of (a) total borrowed money indebtedness to (b) the sum of such indebtedness plus consolidated net worth, with consolidated net worth determined as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter.  We also must not permit our interest coverage ratio as of the last day of a fiscal quarter to be less than 2.50 to 1.00.  The note purchase agreements generally define the interest coverage ratio as the ratio of EBITDA for the four prior fiscal quarters to interest charges for the same period.  We were in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2016.  We do not expect that the restrictions and covenants will impair, in any material respect, our ability to operate or react to opportunities that might arise.    Events of default under the note purchase agreements include failure to pay principal or interest when due, failure to comply with the financial and operational covenants, a cross default event, a judgment in excess of a threshold event, the guaranty agreement ceasing to be enforceable, the occurrence of certain ERISA events, a change of control event and bankruptcy and other insolvency events.  If an event of default under the note purchase agreements occurs and is continuing, then holders of a majority in principal amount of the respective notes have the right to declare all the notes then-outstanding to be immediately due and payable.  In addition, if we default in payments on any note, then until such defaults are cured, the holder thereof may declare all the notes held by it pursuant to the note purchase agreement to be immediately due and payable.    Commitment Letter –  On December 12, 2016 in connection with the execution of the merger agreement, we entered into a financing commitment letter (the “Commitment Letter”) with Canyon Capital Advisors LLC for a senior unsecured bridge facility in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $150 million (the “Bridge Facility”), for the purposes of repaying or redeeming certain of SSE and its subsidiaries’ indebtedness and to pay related fees and expenses.  Any undrawn commitments under the Bridge Facility will automatically terminate on the closing date of the SSE merger.  The Bridge Facility will be subject to representations, warranties and covenants that, subject to certain agreed modifications, will be substantially similar to our revolving credit facility.  The funding of the Bridge Facility is subject to our compliance with customary terms and conditions precedent as set forth in the Commitment Letter, including, among others: (i) the execution and delivery by us of definitive documentation consistent with the Commitment Letter and (ii) the SSE merger shall have been, or substantially simultaneously with the funding under the Bridge Facility shall be, consummated in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement.  We do not currently expect to enter into the Bridge Facility.  35   Commitments and Contingencies  — The  merger  agreement provides for an expense reimbursement in an amount not to exceed $7 .5 million  in respect of bona fide, out of pocket expenses actually incurred  by   SSE  in connection with the m erger agreement if  the merger agreement is terminated if  our  stockholde rs fail to approve the issuance of  our  common stock in the  SSE merger.  The merger agreement also provides that we  may be  required to pay SSE a termination fee of $100 million in certain circumstances, including if our board of directors changes its recomm endation as a result of a superior parent proposal (as defined in the merger agreement) or if the merger agreement is terminated in certain circumstances and we enter into certain types of alternative acquisition transactions within 12 months of terminatio n.    In certain other circumstances, we may be required to pay SSE a termination fee of $40 million.   In no event will we be obligated to make more than one expense reimbursement payment or more than one termination fee payment to SSE.  The description of the expense reimbursement, termination payments and other provisions of the merger agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the merger agreement, which we filed with the SEC on December 13, 2016 as Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K.  As of December 31, 2016, we maintained letters of credit in the aggregate amount of $38.2 million for the benefit of various insurance companies as collateral for retrospective premiums and retained losses which could become payable under the terms of the underlying insurance contracts.  These letters of credit expire annually at various times during the year and are typically renewed.  As of December 31, 2016, no amounts had been drawn under the letters of credit.    As of December 31, 2016, we had commitments to purchase approximately $68.4 million of major equipment for our drilling and pressure pumping businesses.    Our pressure pumping business has entered into agreements to purchase minimum quantities of proppants and chemicals from certain vendors.  As of December 31, 2016, the remaining obligation under these agreements was approximately $17.0 million, of which materials with a total purchase price of approximately $9.5 million were required to be purchased during 2017.  In the event that the required minimum quantities are not purchased during any contract year, we could be required to make a liquidated damages payment to the respective vendor for any shortfall.    Trading and Investing  — We have not engaged in trading activities that include high-risk securities, such as derivatives and non-exchange traded contracts.  We invest cash primarily in highly liquid, short-term investments such as overnight deposits and money market accounts.    Contractual Obligations   The following table presents information with respect to our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016 (dollars in thousands):                  Payments due by period                 Total           Less than 1 year           1-3 years           3-5 years           More than 5 years         Series A Notes (1)       $   300,000           $   —           $   —           $   300,000           $   —         Interest on Series A Notes (2)           59,640               14,910               29,820               14,910               —         Series B Notes (3)           300,000               —               —               —               300,000         Interest on Series B Notes (4)           72,912               12,810               25,620               25,620               8,862         Leases (5)           31,053               5,707               9,515               6,686               9,145         Equipment purchases (6)           68,423               68,423               —               —               —         Inventory purchases (7)           17,025               9,525               7,500               —               —                 $   849,053           $   111,375           $   72,455           $   347,216           $   318,007            (1)   Principal repayment of the Series A Notes is required at maturity on October 5, 2020.        (2)   Interest to be paid on the Series A Notes using 4.97% coupon rate.        (3)   Principal repayment of the Series B Notes is required at maturity on June 14, 2022.      (4)   Interest to be paid on the Series B Notes using 4.27% coupon rate.        (5)   See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.        (6)   Represents commitments to purchase major equipment to be delivered in 2017 based on expected delivery dates.        (7)   Represents commitments to purchase proppants and chemicals for our pressure pumping business.    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   We had no off-balance sheet arrangements at December 31, 2016.    36   Results of Operations   Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015   The following tables summarize operations by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015:                  Year Ended December 31,         Contract Drilling       2016           2015           % Change                 (Dollars in thousands)         Revenues       $   543,663           $   1,153,892               (52.9   )%     Direct operating costs           305,804               608,848               (49.8   )%     Margin (1)           237,859               545,044               (56.4   )%     Selling, general and administrative           5,743               5,580               2.9   %     Depreciation, amortization and impairment           467,974               618,434               (24.3   )%     Operating loss       $   (235,858   )       $   (78,970   )           198.7   %     Operating days           23,596               45,142               (47.7   )%     Average revenue per operating day       $   23.04           $   25.56               (9.9   )%     Average direct operating costs per operating day       $   12.96           $   13.49               (3.9   )%     Average margin per operating day (1)       $   10.08           $   12.07               (16.5   )%     Average rigs operating           64.5               123.7               (47.9   )%     Capital expenditures       $   72,508           $   527,054               (86.2   )%            (1)   Margin is defined as revenues less direct operating costs and excludes depreciation, amortization and impairment and selling, general and administrative expenses.  Average margin per operating day is defined as margin divided by operating days.    The demand for our contract drilling services is impacted by the market price of oil and natural gas.  The decline in prices for oil and natural gas, together with the reactivation and construction of new land drilling rigs in the United States in recent years, have resulted in an excess capacity of land drilling rigs compared to demand.  Also in recent years, customer demand has shifted away from mechanically powered drilling rigs to electric powered drilling rigs, reducing the utilization rates of our mechanically powered drilling rigs.  The average market price of oil and natural gas for each of the fiscal quarters and full year in 2016 and 2015 follows:                  1 st           2 nd           3 rd           4 th                                 Quarter           Quarter           Quarter           Quarter           Year         2016:                                                                                     Average oil price per Bbl (1)       $   33.18           $   45.41           $   44.85           $   49.15           $   43.15         Average natural gas price per Mcf (2)       $   2.00           $   2.14           $   2.88           $   3.04           $   2.51         2015:                                                                                     Average oil price per Bbl (1)       $   48.54           $   57.85           $   46.42           $   41.96           $   48.69         Average natural gas price per Mcf (2)       $   2.90           $   2.75           $   2.76           $   2.12           $   2.63                                                                                               (1) The average oil price represents the average monthly WTI spot price as reported by the United States Energy Information         Administration.         (2) The average natural gas price represents the average monthly Henry Hub Spot price as reported by the United States Energy         Information Administration.           The decreases in revenues and direct operating costs primarily result from the decrease in the number of rigs operating.  Average revenue per operating day and average margin per operating day were higher in 2015 primarily due to higher average dayrates and early termination revenues of approximately $69.4 million.  Early termination revenues were approximately $24.6 million in 2016.  Depreciation, amortization and impairment expense for 2015 included a charge of $131 million related to the write-down of drilling equipment primarily related to mechanical rigs and spare mechanical rig components.  There were no similar charges in 2016.  Capital expenditures were significantly lower as no new rigs were added to the fleet in 2016 and drilling activity was lower, which required less maintenance capital.   37                  Year Ended December 31,         Pressure Pumping       2016           2015           % Change                 (Dollars in thousands)         Revenues       $   354,070           $   712,454               (50.3   )%     Direct operating costs           334,588               612,021               (45.3   )%     Margin (1)           19,482               100,433               (80.6   )%     Selling, general and administrative           11,238               16,318               (31.1   )%     Depreciation, amortization and impairment           184,872               214,552               (13.8   )%     Impairment of goodwill           —               124,561           NA         Operating loss       $   (176,628   )       $   (254,998   )           (30.7   )%     Fracturing jobs           352               610               (42.3   )%     Other jobs           799               2,080               (61.6   )%     Total jobs           1,151               2,690               (57.2   )%     Average revenue per fracturing job       $   982.56           $   1,117.95               (12.1   )%     Average revenue per other job       $   10.28           $   14.66               (29.9   )%     Average revenue per total job       $   307.62           $   264.85               16.1   %     Average direct operating costs per total job       $   290.69           $   227.52               27.8   %     Average margin per total job (1)       $   16.93           $   37.34               (54.7   )%     Margin as a percentage of revenues (1)           5.5   %           14.1   %           (61.0   )%     Capital expenditures       $   39,584           $   197,577               (80.0   )%           (1)   Margin is defined as revenues less direct operating costs and excludes depreciation, amortization and impairment and selling, general and administrative expenses.  Average margin per total job is defined as margin divided by total jobs.  Margin as a percentage of revenues is defined as margin divided by revenues.    Revenues and direct operating costs decreased in 2016 as a result of declines in both activity and pricing.  Average revenue per fracturing job and average revenue per other job decreased due to market-related pricing constraints.  Average revenue per total job and average direct operating costs per total job increased as a result of a shift in the job mix toward fracturing jobs.  The total number of jobs decreased as a result of the downturn in the oil and natural gas industry.  Lower selling, general and administrative expense in 2016 reflects lower personnel costs due to headcount reductions.  Depreciation, amortization and impairment expense for 2015 includes a charge of $22.0 million related to the write-down of pressure pumping equipment and closed facilities.  There were no similar charges in 2016.  In addition, all of the goodwill associated with our pressure pumping business was impaired during 2015.                 Year Ended December 31,         Other Operations       2016           2015           % Change                 (Dollars in thousands)         Revenues       $   18,133           $   24,931               (27.3   )%     Direct operating costs           8,384               11,500               (27.1   )%     Margin (1)           9,749               13,431               (27.4   )%     Selling, general and administrative           3,026               1,399               116.3   %     Depreciation, depletion and impairment           10,114               26,301               (61.5   )%     Operating loss       $   (3,391   )       $   (14,269   )           (76.2   )%     Capital expenditures       $   6,116           $   16,625               (63.2   )%           (1)   Margin is defined as revenues less direct operating costs and excludes depreciation, depletion and impairment and selling, general and administrative expenses.    Revenues from other operations decreased as a result of lower production and lower oil prices which resulted in lower revenues from our oil and natural gas working interests.  Direct operating costs include a reduction in production taxes due to lower revenues.  Selling, general and administrative expense increased from 2015 as the 2016 results include costs related to our drilling technology service business which was acquired in September 2016.  Depreciation, depletion and impairment expense in 2016 includes approximately $2.8 million of oil and natural gas property impairments as compared to approximately $10.7 million of oil and natural gas property impairments in 2015.    38                  Year Ended December 31,         Corporate       2016           2015           % Change                 (Dollars in thousands)         Selling, general and administrative       $   49,198           $   51,616               (4.7   )%     Depreciation       $   5,474           $   5,472               0.0   %     Other operating (income) expense, net                                                     Net gain on asset disposals       $   (14,771   )       $   (10,613   )           39.2   %     Other, including legal settlements, net of insurance reimbursements           448               12,260               (96.3   )%     Other operating (income) expense, net       $   (14,323   )       $   1,647           NA         Interest income       $   327           $   964               (66.1   )%     Interest expense       $   40,366           $   36,475               10.7   %     Other income       $   69           $   34               102.9   %     Capital expenditures       $   1,591           $   2,520               (36.9   )%       Lower selling, general and administrative expense reflects lower personnel costs due to headcount reductions.  Other operating (income) expense, net includes net gains associated with the disposal of assets related to corporate strategy decisions of the executive management group.  Accordingly, the related gains or losses have been excluded from the results of specific segments.  Interest expense increased primarily due to lower capitalized interest, as we reduced our level of capital expenditures in 2016.  In addition, we repaid the entire outstanding principal amount of our bank term loans.  As a result, we wrote off $1.4 million of previously unamortized debt issuance costs in 2016 related to these bank term loans.    Comparison of the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014   The following tables summarize operations by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014:                  Year Ended December 31,         Contract Drilling       2015           2014           % Change                 (Dollars in thousands)         Revenues       $   1,153,892           $   1,838,830               (37.2   )%     Direct operating costs           608,848               1,066,659               (42.9   )%     Margin (1)           545,044               772,171               (29.4   )%     Selling, general and administrative           5,580               6,297               (11.4   )%     Depreciation, amortization and impairment           618,434               524,023               18.0   %     Operating income (loss)       $   (78,970   )       $   241,851           NA         Operating days           45,142               77,000               (41.4   )%     Average revenue per operating day       $   25.56           $   23.88               7.0   %     Average direct operating costs per operating day       $   13.49           $   13.85               (2.6   )%     Average margin per operating day (1)       $   12.07           $   10.03               20.3   %     Average rigs operating       $   123.7               211.0               (41.4   )%     Capital expenditures       $   527,054           $   771,593               (31.7   )%           (1)   Margin is defined as revenues less direct operating costs and excludes depreciation, amortization and impairment and selling, general and administrative expenses.  Average margin per operating day is defined as margin divided by operating days.    39   The demand for our  contract drilling services is impacted by the market price of oil and natural gas.  The reactivation and construction of new land drilling rigs in the United States in recent years contributed to an excess capacity of land drilling rigs compared to demand .  Customer demand shifted away from mechanically powered drilling rigs to electric powered drilling rigs, reducing the utilization rates of our mechanically powered drilling rigs.  The average market price of oil and natural gas for each of the fiscal qua rters and full year in 201 5  and 201 4  follows:                  1 st           2 nd           3 rd           4 th                                 Quarter           Quarter           Quarter           Quarter           Year         2015:                                                                                     Average oil price per Bbl (1)       $   48.54           $   57.85           $   46.42           $   41.96           $   48.69         Average natural gas price per Mcf (2)       $   2.90           $   2.75           $   2.76           $   2.12           $   2.63         2014:                                                                                     Average oil price per Bbl (1)       $   98.75           $   103.35           $   97.78           $   73.16           $   93.26         Average natural gas price per Mcf (2)       $   5.21           $   4.61           $   3.96           $   3.80           $   4.39                                                                                               (1) The average oil price represents the average monthly WTI spot price as reported by the United States Energy Information         Administration.         (2) The average natural gas price represents the average monthly Henry Hub Spot price as reported by the United States Energy         Information Administration.        The decreases in revenues and direct operating costs primarily result from the decrease in the number of rigs operating.  Average revenue per operating day and average margin per operating day were higher in 2015 primarily due to higher average dayrates and early termination revenues of approximately $69.4 million.  Depreciation, amortization and impairment expense for 2015 includes a charge of $131 million related to the write-down of drilling equipment primarily related to mechanical rigs and spare mechanical rig components.  Depreciation, amortization and impairment expense for 2014 includes a charge of $77.9 million related to the retirement of mechanical drilling rigs and the write-off of excess spare mechanical rig components.  The increase in depreciation expense also reflects significant capital expenditures incurred in recent years to build new drilling rigs, to modify and upgrade existing drilling rigs and to acquire additional related equipment such as top drives, drill pipe, drill collars, engines, fluid circulating systems, rig hoisting systems and safety enhancement equipment.                  Year Ended December 31,         Pressure Pumping       2015           2014           % Change                 (Dollars in thousands)         Revenues       $   712,454           $   1,293,265               (44.9   )%     Direct operating costs           612,021               1,036,310               (40.9   )%     Margin (1)           100,433               256,955               (60.9   )%     Selling, general and administrative           16,318               20,279               (19.5   )%     Depreciation, amortization and impairment           214,552               147,595               45.4   %     Impairment of goodwill           124,561               —           NA         Operating income (loss)       $   (254,998   )       $   89,081           NA         Fracturing jobs           610               1,224               (50.2   )%     Other jobs           2,080               4,253               (51.1   )%     Total jobs           2,690               5,477               (50.9   )%     Average revenue per fracturing job       $   1,117.95           $   991.89               12.7   %     Average revenue per other job       $   14.66           $   18.62               (21.3   )%     Average revenue per total job       $   264.85           $   236.13               12.2   %     Average direct operating costs per total job       $   227.52           $   189.21               20.2   %     Average margin per total job (1)       $   37.34           $   46.92               (20.4   )%     Margin as a percentage of revenues (1)           14.1   %           19.9   %           (29.1   )%     Capital expenditures and acquisitions       $   197,577           $   241,359               (18.1   )%           (1)   Margin is defined as revenues less direct operating costs and excludes depreciation, amortization and impairment and selling, general and administrative expenses.  Average margin per total job is defined as margin divided by total jobs.  Margin as a percentage of revenues is defined as margin divided by revenues.    40   Revenues and direct operating costs decreased primarily due to a decrease in the number of jobs, although the average size of the fracturing jobs increased.  Average revenue per fracturing job an d average direct operating costs per total job increased as a result of the increased size of the jobs in 2015 as compared to 2014.   T he total number of jobs decreased as a result of the downturn in the oil and natural gas industry.  Depreciation, amortiza tion and impairment expense for 2015 includes a charge of $22.0   million related to the write-down of pressure pumping equipment and closed facilities.  There were no similar charges in 2014.  Depreciation expense also increased due to capital expenditures  and acquisitions.  All of the goodwill associated with our pressure pumping business was impaired during 2015.                 Year Ended December 31,         Other       2015           2014           % Change                 (Dollars in thousands)         Revenues       $   24,931           $   50,196               (50.3   )%     Direct operating costs           11,500               13,102               (12.2   )%     Margin (1)           13,431               37,094               (63.8   )%     Selling, general and administrative           1,399               1,256               11.4   %     Depreciation, depletion and impairment           26,301               42,576               (38.2   )%     Operating loss       $   (14,269   )       $   (6,738   )           111.8   %     Capital expenditures       $   16,625           $   36,683               (54.7   )%           (1)   Margin is defined as revenues less direct operating costs and excludes depreciation, depletion and impairment and selling, general and administrative expenses.    Revenues from other operations decreased as a result of lower commodity prices which resulted in lower revenues from our oil and natural gas working interests.  Direct operating costs include a reduction in production taxes due to lower revenues.  Depreciation, depletion and impairment expense in 2015 includes approximately $10.7 million of oil and natural gas property impairments compared to approximately $20.9 million of oil and natural gas property impairments in 2014.                   Year Ended December 31,         Corporate       2015           2014           % Change                 (Dollars in thousands)         Selling, general and administrative       $   51,616           $   52,313               (1.3   )%     Depreciation       $   5,472           $   4,536               20.6   %     Other operating (income) expense, net                                                     Net gain on asset disposals       $   (10,613   )       $   (15,781   )           (32.7   )%     Legal settlements, net of insurance reimbursements           12,260               —           NA         Other operating (income) expense, net       $   1,647           $   (15,781   )       NA         Interest income       $   964           $   979               (1.5   )%     Interest expense       $   36,475           $   29,825               22.3   %     Other income       $   34           $   3               1,033.3   %     Capital expenditures       $   2,520           $   2,706               (6.9   )%    Gains on the disposal of assets are treated as part of our corporate activities because such transactions relate to corporate strategy decisions of our executive management group.  Interest expense increased primarily due to borrowings under the 2015 Term Loan Agreement.   41   Adjusted EBITDA   Adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”) is not defined by U.S. GAAP.  We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus net interest expense, income tax expense (benefit) and depreciation, depletion, amortization and impairment expense (including impairment of goodwill).  We present Adjusted EBITDA (a non-U.S. GAAP measure) because we believe it provides to both management and investors additional information with respect to both the performance of our fundamental business activities and our ability to meet our capital expenditures and working capital requirements.  Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an alternative to the U.S. GAAP measure of net income (loss).  Set forth below is a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to our net income (loss), the nearest performance measure under U.S. GAAP.                 Year Ended December 31,                 2016           2015           2014                 (Dollars in thousands)         Net income (loss)       $   (318,634   )       $   (294,486   )       $   162,664         Income tax expense (benefit)           (177,562   )           (147,963   )           91,619         Net interest expense           40,039               35,511               28,846         Depreciation, depletion, amortization and impairment           668,434               864,759               718,730         Impairment of goodwill           —               124,561               —         Adjusted EBITDA       $   212,277           $   582,382           $   1,001,859              Income Taxes                  Year Ended December 31,                 2016           2015           2014                 (Dollars in thousands)         Income (loss) before income taxes       $   (496,196   )       $   (442,449   )       $   254,283         Income tax expense (benefit)       $   (177,562   )       $   (147,963   )       $   91,619         Effective tax rate           35.8   %           33.4   %           36.0   %        The effective tax rate is a result of a federal rate of 35.0% adjusted as follows:                 2016           2015           2014         Statutory tax rate           35.0   %           35.0   %           35.0   %     State income taxes           2.0               2.1               2.5         Permanent differences           (0.1   )           (1.3   )           (1.4   )     Other differences, net           (1.1   )           (2.4   )           (0.1   )     Effective tax rate           35.8   %           33.4   %           36.0   %    The lower 2015 effective rate is primarily related to the impact of goodwill impairment charges in 2015 along with an adjustment to our deferred tax liability associated with the 2010 conversion of our Canadian operations to a controlled foreign corporation.   We record deferred federal income taxes based primarily on the temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be settled.  As a result of fully recognizing the benefit of our deferred income taxes, we incur deferred income tax expense as these benefits are utilized.  We recognized a deferred tax benefit of approximately $152 million in 2016 and $100 million in 2015 and deferred tax expense of approximately $43.7 million in 2014.    On January 1, 2010, we converted our Canadian operations from a Canadian branch to a controlled foreign corporation for federal income tax purposes.  This transaction triggered a $1.0 million increase in deferred tax liabilities, which is being amortized as an increase to deferred income tax expense over the weighted average remaining useful life of the Canadian assets.  This amount was fully amortized as of December 31, 2016.  As a result of the above conversion, our Canadian assets are no longer directly subject to United States taxation, provided that the related unremitted earnings are permanently reinvested in Canada.  Effective January 1, 2010, we have elected to permanently reinvest these unremitted earnings in Canada, and we intend to do so for the foreseeable future.  As a result, no deferred United States federal or state income taxes have been provided on such unremitted foreign earnings, which totaled approximately $18.8 million as of December 31, 2016.  The unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these earnings was approximately $2.5 million, net of available foreign tax credits.  This liability would be recognized if we received a dividend of the unremitted earnings.   42   Volatility of Oil and Natural Gas Prices and its Impact on Operations and Financial Condition   Our revenue, profitability and cash flows are highly dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas and expectations about future prices.  For many years, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been extremely volatile.  Prices are affected by many factors beyond our control.  Please see “Risk Factors – We are Dependent on the Oil and Natural Gas Industry and Market Prices for Oil and Natural Gas.  Declines in Customers’ Operating and Capital Expenditures and in Oil and Natural Gas Prices May Adversely Affect Our Operating Results” in Item 1A of this Report.  The closing price of oil was as high as $107.95 per barrel in June 2014.  Prices began to fall in the third quarter of 2014 and reached a twelve-year low of $26.19 in February 2016.  Oil and natural gas prices have recovered substantially from the lows experienced in the first quarter of 2016.  During the fourth quarter of 2016, OPEC and certain non-OPEC countries, including Russia, announced an agreement to cut oil production.  The announcement resulted in an increase in oil prices, which averaged $51.97 per barrel in December 2016.  In response to improved prices, U.S. rig counts have been increasing, and we believe they will continue to increase throughout 2017 if prices for these commodities remain at or above current levels.  We expect oil and natural gas prices to continue to be volatile and to affect our financial condition, operations and ability to access sources of capital.  Higher oil and natural gas prices do not necessarily result in increased activity because demand for our services is generally driven by our customers’ expectations of future oil and natural gas prices.  A continued decline in demand for oil and natural gas, prolonged low oil or natural gas prices or expectations of further decreases in oil and natural gas prices, would likely result in further reduced capital expenditures by our customers and decreased demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.  Even during periods of high prices for oil and natural gas, companies exploring for oil and natural gas may cancel or curtail programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, which could reduce demand for our services.     Impact of Inflation   Inflation has not had a significant impact on our operations during the three years ended December 31, 2016.  We believe that inflation will not have a significant near-term impact on our financial position.    Recently Issued Accounting Standards   In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting standards update to provide guidance on the recognition of revenue from customers.  Under this guidance, an entity will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects what it expects in exchange for the goods or services.  This guidance also requires more detailed disclosures to enable users of the financial statements to understand the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty, if any, of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers.  The requirements in this update are effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017.  We expect to adopt this new revenue guidance utilizing the retrospective method of adoption in the first quarter of 2018, and because we are still evaluating the portion of our contract drilling revenues that will be subject to the new leasing guidance discussed below, we are unable to quantify the impact that the new revenue standard will have on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption.  In February 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to provide guidance for the accounting for leasing transactions.  The requirements in this update are effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018.  Since a portion of our contract drilling revenue will be subject to this new leasing guidance, we expect to adopt this updated leasing guidance at the same time we adopt the new revenue standard discussed above, utilizing the retrospective method of adoption.  Upon adoption of these two new standards, we expect to have a lease component and a service component of revenue related to our drilling contracts.  We are still evaluating the impact of this new guidance on our consolidated financial statements.  This new leasing guidance will also impact us in situations where we are the lessee, and in certain circumstances we will need to record a right-of-use asset and lease liability on our consolidated financial statements.  We have not quantified the impact of this guidance to such situations, although we expect the future minimum rental payments disclosed in Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements will provide some visibility into our estimated adoption impact.  In November 2015, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to provide guidance for the presentation of deferred tax liabilities and assets.  Under this guidance, for a particular tax-paying component of an entity and within a particular tax jurisdiction, all deferred tax liabilities and assets, as well as any related valuation allowance, shall be offset and presented as a single noncurrent amount.  The requirements in this update are effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016.  The adoption of this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  43   In March 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to provide guidan ce for the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the  related  income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows.  The requirements in this update are  effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December   15,   2016.   We believe this guidance will cause volatility in our effective tax rates and diluted earnings per share due to the tax effects related to share-based payments being recorded i n the income statement.  The volatility in future periods will depend on our stock price and the number of shares that vest in the case of restricted stock ,  or the number of shares that are exercised in the case of stock options.    In August 2016, the FASB issued an accounting standard to clarify the presentation of cash receipts and payments in specific situations on the statement of cash flows.  The requirements in this update are effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017.  The adoption of this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   We currently have exposure to interest rate market risk associated with any borrowings that we have under the Credit Agreement and the Reimbursement Agreement.   Loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest by reference, at our election, to the LIBOR rate or base rate, provided, that swing line loans bear interest by reference only to the base rate.  Until September 27, 2017, the applicable margin on LIBOR rate loans varies from 2.75% to 3.25% and the applicable margin on base rate loans varies from 1.75% to 2.25%, in each case determined based upon our debt to capitalization ratio.  Beginning September 27, 2017, the applicable margin on LIBOR rate loans varies from 3.25% to 3.75% and the applicable margin on base rate loans varies from 2.25% to 2.75%, in each case determined based on our excess availability under the credit facility.  As of December 31, 2016, the applicable margin on LIBOR rate loans was 2.75% and the applicable margin on base rate loans was 1.75%.  Based on our debt to capitalization ratio at September 30, 2016, the applicable margin on LIBOR loans was 2.75% and the applicable margin on base rate loans was 1.75% as of January 1, 2017.  Based on our debt to capitalization ratio at December 31, 2016, the applicable margin on LIBOR loans will be 2.75% and the applicable margin on base rate loans will be 1.75% as of April 1, 2017.  As of December 31, 2016, we had no amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility.  Under the Reimbursement Agreement, we will reimburse the issuing bank on demand for any amounts that it has disbursed under any letters of credit.  We are obligated to pay to the issuing bank interest on all amounts not paid by us on the date of demand or when otherwise due at the LIBOR rate plus 2.25% per annum.  As of December 31, 2016, no amounts had been disbursed under any letters of credit.  We conduct a portion of our business in Canadian dollars through our Canadian land-based drilling operations and our Warrior Rig Technologies Limited subsidiary.  The exchange rate between Canadian dollars and U.S. dollars has fluctuated during the last several years.  If the value of the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar weakens, revenues and earnings of our Canadian operations will be reduced and the value of our Canadian net assets will decline when they are translated to U.S. dollars.  This currency risk is not material to our results of operations or financial condition.    The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and accounts payable approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of these items.    Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.   