ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   
52           ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   69           ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   70           ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE   70           ITEM 9A.   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   70           ITEM 9B.   OTHER INFORMATION   71           PART III       72           ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE   72           ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION   72           ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS   72           ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE   72           ITEM 14.   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES   72           PART IV       73           ITEM 15.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   73           Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk (Part II, Item 7A), and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations (Part II, ITEM 1.            BUSINESS   We are a diversified television media company with national reach and a strong focus on providing high-quality content on our local television stations, regional sports networks, and digital platforms.  The content, distributed through our broadcast platform and third-party platforms, consists of programming provided by third-party networks and syndicators, local news, college and professional sports, and other original programming produced by us.  Additionally, we own digital media products that are complementary to our extensive portfolio of television station and RSN related digital properties. Outside of our media related businesses, we operate technical services companies focused on supply and maintenance of broadcast transmission systems as well as research and development for the advancement of broadcast technology, and we manage other non-media related investments. We are a Maryland corporation founded in 1986.  Our principal executive offices are located at 10706 Beaver Dam Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21030.  Our telephone number is (410) 568-1500 and our website address is www.sbgi.net.  The information contained on, or accessible through, our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated herein by reference. Segments  As of December 31, 2019, we have two reportable segments: local news and marketing services and sports. Our local news and marketing services segment is comprised of all of our television stations. Our sports segment is comprised of our regional sports networks. We also earn revenues from our owned networks, original content, digital and internet services, technical services, and non-media investments. These businesses are included within other. Local News and Marketing Services   As of  December 31, 2019 , our  local news and marketing services  segment consists primarily of our broadcast television stations (stations). We own, provide programming and operating services pursuant to local marketing agreements (LMAs), or provide sales services and other non-programming operating services pursuant to other outsourcing agreements (such as JSAs and SSAs) to  191  stations in  89  markets. These stations broadcast  629  channels, including  241  channels affiliated with primary networks or program service providers comprised of:  FOX ( 59 ), ABC ( 41 ), CBS ( 30 ), NBC ( 24 ), CW ( 48 ), and MyNetworkTV (MNT) ( 39 ).  The other  388  channels broadcast programming from programming services including Antenna TV, Azteca, Bounce Network, CHARGE!, Comet, Dabl, Estrella TV, Get TV, Grit, Me TV, Movies!, Stadium, TBD, Telemundo, This TV, Unimas, Univision, Weather Nation, and two channels broadcasting independent programming.  Solely for the purpose of this report, these  191  stations and  629  channels are referred to as “our” stations and channels, and the use of such term shall not be construed as an admission that we control such stations or channels.  Refer to our  Television Markets and Stations  table later in this  Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding amendments to and waivers under the code of business conduct and ethics applicable to our Chief Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer by providing such information on our website within four days after effecting any amendment to, or granting any waiver under, that code, and we will maintain such information on our website for at least twelve months. In addition, a replay of each of our quarterly earnings conference calls is available on our website until the subsequent quarter’s earnings call.  The information contained on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated herein by reference. Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  and  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,  which will be included as part of our Proxy Statement for our  2020  Annual Meeting.) Significant divestitures by the Smiths could cause them to own or control less than 51% of the voting power of our shares, which in turn (i) could, as discussed under  A failure to comply with covenants under debt instruments could result in a default under such debt instruments, acceleration of amounts due under our debt and loss of assets securing our loans  within  Item 1A. Risk Factors , under certain circumstances require us to offer to buy back some or all of our outstanding notes and could result in an event of default under each of the STG Bank Credit Agreement and the DSG Bank Credit Agreement and (ii) give Cunningham Broadcasting Corporation (Cunningham) the right to terminate the LMAs and other outsourcing agreements with Cunningham due to a "change in control."  Any such termination of LMAs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  The FCC's multiple ownership rules may limit our ability to operate multiple television stations in some markets and may result in a reduction in our revenue or prevent us from reducing costs.  Changes in these rules may threaten our existing strategic approach to certain television markets.  See the risk factor below regarding the FCC's multiple ownership rules.   Key officers and directors have financial interests that are different and sometimes opposite from ours and we may engage in transactions with these officers and directors that may benefit them to the detriment of other security holders. Some of our officers, directors, and majority shareholders own stock or partnership interests in businesses that do business with us or otherwise do business that conflicts with our interests.  They may transact some business with us upon approval by the independent members of our board of directors even if there is a conflict of interest or they may engage in business competitive to our business and those transactions may benefit the officers, directors or majority shareholders to the detriment of our security holders.  Each of David D. Smith, Frederick G. Smith, and J. Duncan Smith is an officer and director of Sinclair and Robert E. Smith is a director of Sinclair.  Together, the Smiths hold shares of our common stock that control the outcome of most matters submitted to a vote of shareholders. David D. Smith, Frederick G. Smith, J. Duncan Smith, and Robert E. Smith together own interests (less than 5% in aggregate) in Allegiance Capital Limited Partnership, a limited partnership in which we also hold an interest.  Frederick G. Smith owns an interest (less than 1%) in Patriot Capital II, L.P., a limited partnership in which we also hold an interest.  For additional information regarding our related person transactions, see  Note 15. Related Person Transactions  within the  Consolidated Financial Statements .  We can give no assurance that these transactions or any transactions that we may enter into in the future with our officers, directors, or majority shareholders, have been, or will be, negotiated on terms as favorable to us as we would obtain from unrelated parties.  Maryland law and our financing agreements limit the extent to which our officers, directors, and majority shareholders may transact business with us and pursue business opportunities that we might pursue.  These limitations do not, however, prohibit all such transactions. Our investments in other non-media related businesses involve risks, including the diversion of resources, that may adversely affect our business or results of operations.   We have made investments in certain non-media related businesses. See  Item 1. Business  for a detailed listing of our stations and channels as of  December 31, 2019 .   As network affiliation agreements come up for renewal, we (or licensees of the stations we provide programming and/or sales services to), may not be able to negotiate terms comparable to or more favorable than our current agreements.  The non-renewal or termination of any of our network affiliation agreements would prevent us from being able to carry programming of the relevant network.  This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming, which may involve higher costs and which may not be as attractive to our target audiences, resulting in reduced revenues. Upon the termination of any of our network affiliation agreements, we would be required to establish a new network affiliation agreement for the affected station with another network or operate as an independent station.   We cannot predict the outcome of any future negotiations relating to our affiliation agreements or what impact, if any, they may have on our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the impact of an increase in reverse network compensation payments, under which we compensate the network for programming pursuant to our affiliation agreements, may have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. See  Television Markets and Stations  within  Item 1. Business , in April 2017 the FCC adopted the UHF Discount Order on Reconsideration to restore the UHF discount, which reinstatement became effective in June 2017. A Petition to Review the UHF Discount Order on Reconsideration was filed with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in May 2017, and dismissed by the Court in July 2018. On December 18, 2017, the Commission released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to examine the National Ownership Rule, including the UHF discount, which remains pending. We cannot predict the outcome of this rulemaking proceeding. Because we are near the 39% cap without application of the UHF discount, changes to the UHF discount or National Ownership Rule could limit our ability to acquire television stations in additional markets.    Under federal law, the FCC is required to review its ownership rules every four years (a Quadrennial Regulatory Review) to determine whether they are necessary in the public interest as the result of competition and to repeal or modify any regulation the FCC determines to be no longer in the public interest.    In August 2016, the FCC completed both its 2010 and 2014 quadrennial reviews of its media ownership rules and issued an order (Ownership Order) which left most of the existing multiple ownership rules intact, but amended the rules to provide for the attribution of JSAs where two television stations are located in the same market, and a party with an attributable interest in one station sells more than 15% of the advertising time per week of the other station. The Ownership Order also required that JSAs that existed prior to March 31, 2014, may remain in place until October 1, 2025, at which point they must be terminated, amended or otherwise come into compliance with the rules. These "grandfathered" JSAs could be transferred or assigned without losing grandfathering status. The subsequent Ownership Order on Reconsideration eliminated the JSA attribution rule and eliminated or modified other multiple ownership rules, including the Newspaper-Broadcast Cross-Ownership Rule and the Local Television Ownership Rule.  The rule changes adopted in the Ownership Order on Reconsideration became effective on February 7, 2018.  Petitions for Review of the Ownership Order on Reconsideration, including elimination of the JSA attribution rule, were filed before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.  On September 23, 2019, the court vacated and remanded the Ownership Order on Reconsideration.  Petitions for rehearing  en banc  were filed by the FCC and industry intervenors on November 7, 2019.  The Third Circuit denied the petitions for rehearing on November 20, 2019 and the court’s mandate issued on November 29, 2019.  On February 7, 2020, the FCC and industry intervenors filed applications to extend the time to file petitions for writ of certiorari with the Supreme Court from February 18, 2020 to March 19, 2020, which applications were granted on February 12, 2020.  We cannot predict whether the Supreme Court will grant a writ of certiorari or what the outcome of the proceeding would be.  If we are required to terminate or modify our JSAs, our business could be adversely affected in several ways, including losses on investments and termination penalties.  See  Note 14. Variable Interest Entities  within the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for further discussion of our JSAs which we consolidate as variable interest entities. Certain of our stations have entered into what have commonly been referred to as local marketing agreements or LMAs.  One typical type of LMA is a programming agreement between two separately owned television stations serving the same market, whereby the licensee of one station programs substantial portions of the broadcast day and sells advertising time during such programming segments on the other licensee's station subject to the ultimate editorial and other controls being exercised by the latter licensee. We believe these arrangements allow us to reduce our operating expenses and enhance profitability. See  Note 14. Variable Interest Entities  within the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for further discussion of our LMAs which we consolidate as variable interest entities.   In addition to our LMAs, we have entered into outsourcing agreements (such as JSAs) whereby 34 stations provide various non-programming related services such as sales, operational and managerial services to or by other stations within the same markets.  We believe this structure allows stations to achieve operational efficiencies and economies of scale, which should otherwise improve broadcast cash flow and competitive positions. For additional information, refer to  Television Markets and Stations  within  ITEM 1B.                      UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   None. ITEM 2.                                       PROPERTIES   We own and lease facilities consisting of offices, studios, sales offices, and tower and transmitter sites throughout the U.S.  Our owned and leased transmitter and tower sites are located in areas to provide maximum signal coverage to our stations’ markets. We believe that all of our properties, both owned and leased, are generally in good operating condition, subject to normal wear and tear, and are suitable and adequate for our current business operations.  We believe that no one property represents a material amount of the total properties owned or leased.    ITEM 6.            SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   The selected consolidated financial data for the  years ended December 31, 2019 ,  2018 ,  2017 ,  2016 , and  2015  have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements.   The information below should be read in conjunction with  ITEM 7.                                       MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statements  We make statements in this section that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. For a complete discussion of forward-looking statements, see the section in this report entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” Certain risks may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the following discussion. For a discussion of such risk factors, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors . Overview   The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis provides qualitative and quantitative information about our financial performance and condition and should be read in conjunction with the other sections in this Annual Report, including  Item 1. Business,   Item 6. Selected Financial Data,  and our  Consolidated Financial Statements  including the accompanying notes to those statements.  This discussion consists of the following sections: Executive Overview  — a description of our business, summary of significant events and financial highlights from  2019 , and information about industry trends;   Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  — a discussion of the accounting policies that are most important in understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in the consolidated financial statements and a summary of recent accounting pronouncements;   Results of Operations  — a summary of the components of our revenues by category and by network affiliation or program service arrangement, a summary of other operating data and an analysis of our revenues and expenses for  2019 ,  2018 , and  2017 , including comparisons between years and certain expectations for  2020 ; and   Liquidity and Capital Resources  — a discussion of our primary sources of liquidity, an analysis of our cash flows from or used in operating activities, investing activities and financing activities, a discussion of our dividend policy, and a summary of our contractual cash obligations and off-balance sheet arrangements.   EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW We are a diversified television media company with national reach and a strong focus on providing high-quality content on our local television stations, regional sports networks, and digital platforms. This content consists of programming provided by third-party networks and syndicators, local news, college and professional sports, and other original programming produced by us. Additionally, we own digital and internet media products that are complementary to our extensive portfolio of television station related digital properties. Outside of our media related businesses, we operate technical services companies focused on supply and maintenance of broadcast transmission systems as well as research and development for the advancement of broadcast technology, and we manage other non-media related investments. We have two reportable segments:  local news and marketing services  and  sports . Our  local news and marketing services  segment is comprised of our television stations. Our  sports  segment is comprised of our regional sports networks. We also earn revenues from our owned networks, original content, digital and internet services, technical services, and non-media investments. These businesses are included within other. Corporate and unallocated expenses primarily include our costs to operate as a public company and to operate our corporate headquarters location. Other and corporate are not reportable segments. STG, for which certain assets and results of operations are included in the  local news and marketing services  segment and which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc. (SBG), is the primary obligor under the STG Bank Credit Agreement, the STG 5.625% Notes, STG 5.125% Notes, STG 5.875% Notes, and STG 5.500% Notes (the STG notes are collectively referred to as, the “STG Senior Notes"). SBG is a guarantor under all of the STG debt instruments. DSG, for which certain assets and results of operations are included in the  sports  segment and which is a wholly owned subsidiary of SBG, is the primary obligor under the DSG Bank Credit Agreement, the DSG 5.375% Secured Notes, and the DSG 6.625% Notes. Neither SBG, STG, or any of STG's subsidiaries is a guarantor under any of the DSG debt instruments. Our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock remain securities of SBG and not obligations or securities of STG or DSG. For more information about our business, reportable segments, and our operating strategy, see  items, such as certain purchase commitments and other executory contracts are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements but are required to be disclosed. For example, we are contractually committed to acquire future programming.   The following table reflects a summary of our contractual cash obligations as of  December 31, 2019  and the future periods in which such obligations are expected to be settled in cash (in millions):   CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS   Total   2020   2021-2022   2023-2024   2025 and thereafter Notes payable, finance leases and commercial bank financing (a) $ 17,031   $ 730   $ 1,453   $ 3,174   $ 11,674 Operating leases 339   51   76   54   158 Programming rights and content (b) 17,798   2,575   4,095   2,913   8,215 Programming services (c) 208   91   77   37   3 Other (d) 450   130   146   64   110 Total contractual cash obligations $ 35,826   $ 3,577   $ 5,847   $ 6,242   $ 20,160   (a) Includes interest on debt and finance leases, including finance leases payable to related parties. Estimated interest on our variable rate debt has been calculated at an effective weighted interest rate of  4.58%  as of  December 31, 2019 . Variable rate debt represents  $6 billion  of our  $12 billion  total face value of debt as of  December 31, 2019 .  See  Note 7. Notes Payable and Commercial Bank Financing  within the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for further discussion of the changes to notes payable, finance leases, and commercial bank financing during  2019  and  Note 15. Related Person Transactions  within the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for further discussion of related parties.  (b) Our programming rights and content includes contractual amounts owed through the expiration date of the underlying agreement for sports programming rights of $16.2 billion, active and future television program contracts, network programming, and additional advertising inventory in various dayparts. Active television program contracts are included in the balance sheet as an asset and liability while future television program contracts are excluded until the cost is known, the program is available for its first showing or telecast, and the licensee has accepted the program.  Industry protocol typically enables us to make payments for television program contracts on a three-month lag, which differs from the contractual timing within the table. Network programming agreements may include variable fee components such as subscriber levels, which in certain circumstances have been estimated and reflected in the table above. (c) Includes obligations related to rating service fees, music license fees, market research, weather, and news services. (d) Other includes obligations related to post-retirement benefits, guaranteed payments under a deferred purchase price liability, maintenance and support, other corporate contracts, other long-term liabilities, commitments to contribute capital to various non-media private equity investments, and LMA and outsourcing agreements. Excluded from the table are estimated amounts due pursuant to LMAs and outsourcing agreements where we consolidate the counter-party. The fees that we are required to pay under these agreements total  $6 million  and  $3 million  for the periods  2020  and  2021 - 2022 , respectively. Certain station related operating expenses are paid by the licensee and reimbursed by us under the LMA agreements. Certain of these expenses that are in connection with contracts are included in the table above. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements   Off balance sheet arrangements as defined by the SEC means any transaction, agreement or other contractual arrangement to which an entity unconsolidated with the registrant is a party, under which the registrant has:  obligations under certain guarantees or contracts; retained or contingent interest in assets transferred to an unconsolidated entity or similar arrangements; obligations under certain derivative arrangements; and obligations arising out of a material variable interest in an unconsolidated entity. As of  December 31, 2019 , we do not have any material off balance sheet arrangements. ITEM 8.                                       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   