Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations,  and  Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,  as such factors may be updated from time to time in our periodic filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which are accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. These factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this report and in our other periodic filings with the SEC.  Further, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results over time, unless required by law. SUMMARY OF RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and affect our financial results. You should carefully consider all of the information in this report and, in particular, the following principal risks and all of the other specific factors described in  ITEM 1.            BUSINESS   Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc. (the Company, or sometimes referred to as "we" or "our") is a diversified media company with national reach and a strong focus on providing high-quality content on our local television stations, regional and national sports networks, and digital platforms. The content, distributed through our broadcast platform and third-party platforms, consists of programming provided by third-party networks and syndicators, local news, college and professional sports, and other original programming produced by us.  Additionally, we own digital media products that are complementary to our extensive portfolio of television station and regional sports network related digital properties. Outside of our media related businesses, we operate technical services companies focused on supply and maintenance of broadcast transmission systems as well as research and development for the advancement of broadcast technology, and we manage other non-media related investments. We are a Maryland corporation founded in 1986. Our principal executive offices are located at 10706 Beaver Dam Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21030. Our telephone number is (410) 568-1500 and our website address is www.sbgi.net. The information contained on, or accessible through, our website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated herein by reference. Segments  As of December 31, 2021, we have two reportable segments: broadcast and local sports. Our broadcast segment is comprised of our television stations, which are owned and/or operated by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Sinclair Television Group, Inc. (STG) and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Our local sports segment is comprised of our regional sports networks, which are owned and operated by our subsidiary, Diamond Sports Group, LLC (DSG) and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. We also earn revenues from our owned networks, original content, digital and internet services, technical services, and non-media investments. These businesses are included within other. Other is not a reportable segment but is included for reconciliation purposes.  Broadcast  As of December 31, 2021, our broadcast segment primarily consisted of our broadcast television stations. We own, provide programming and operating services pursuant to local marketing agreements (LMAs), or provide sales services and other non-programming operating services pursuant to other outsourcing agreements (such as joint sales agreements (JSAs) and shared services agreements (SSAs)) to 185 stations in 86 markets. These stations broadcast 634 channels, including 238 channels affiliated with primary networks or program service providers comprised of:  FOX (56), ABC (40), CBS (31), NBC (25), CW (46), and MyNetworkTV (MNT) (40).  The other 396 channels broadcast programming from programming services including Antenna TV, Azteca, Bounce, CHARGE!, Comet, Dabl, Decades, Estrella TV, GetTV, Grit, MeTV, Rewind, Stadium, TBD, Telemundo, This TV, UniMas, Univision, Weather, and two channels broadcasting independent programming. Solely for the purpose of this report, these 185 stations and 634 channels are referred to as “our” stations and channels, and the use of such term shall not be construed as an admission that we control such stations or channels. Refer to our  Television Markets and Stations  table later in this  Item 1A. Risk Factors  for further discussion of the risk related to the outcome of rules governing the UHF discount. Local Television Ownership Rule . A party may own television stations in adjoining markets, even if there is a digital noise limited service contour overlap between the two stations’ broadcast signals, and generally may own two stations in the same market (local television ownership rule) only (i) if there is no digital overlap between the stations; or (ii) not more than one station is among the top-four rated stations in the market (the top-four rule).  The Ownership Order on Reconsideration modified the top-four rule to permit parties to own up to two top-four rated stations in the same market on a case-by-case basis.  Local Marketing and Outsourcing Agreements Certain of our stations have entered into agreements with other stations in the same market, through which we provide programming and operating services pursuant to LMAs or provide sales services and other non-programming operating services pursuant to outsourcing agreements, such as JSAs and SSAs.  LMAs are attributable where a licensee holds an attributable interest in a television station and (i) programs more than 15% of the weekly broadcast hours and/or (ii) sells more than 15% of the weekly advertising time on another television station in the same market.  LMAs existing prior to November 5, 1996, which include all of our LMAs, are currently grandfathered until further FCC action.  If the FCC were to eliminate the grandfathering of these LMAs, we would have to terminate or modify these LMAs.  JSAs and SSAs currently are not attributable.   In August 2016, the FCC completed both its 2010 and 2014 Quadrennial Regulatory Reviews of its media ownership rules and issued an order (Ownership Order) which left most of the existing multiple ownership rules intact, but amended the rules to provide for the attribution of JSAs under certain circumstances.  Certain existing JSAs were later grandfathered until 2025.  The subsequent Ownership Order on Reconsideration eliminated the JSA attribution rule. If we are required to terminate or modify our LMAs or JSAs, our business could be adversely affected in several ways, including losses on investments and termination penalties.  For more information on the risks, see  Changes in rules on local marketing agreements  under " The FCC's multiple ownership rules and federal antitrust regulation may limit our ability to operate multiple television stations in some markets and may result in a reduction in our revenue or prevent us from reducing costs. Changes in these rules may threaten our existing strategic approach to certain television markets. " within items. We were one of only 19 organizations recently recognized by Office Depot for being a leader in green purchasing, recognizing our high degree of expenditures with eco-friendly attributes such as recycled content, energy-efficiency, and reduced use of harsh chemicals. In 2021, we launched a contest within the Company to collect ideas from all our employees on ways that we can positively impact the environment and promote sustainability. The winning idea, as voted on by the employees, was to implement a battery recycling program. We are starting a pilot program at a number of our stations to recycle batteries and, if the pilot proves successful, hope to roll out a battery recycling program across the Company by the end of 2022.   In addition to our direct efforts to reduce our impact on the environment, we produce high quality news to increase our viewers' general awareness of environmental issues and programs by providing them information on how they can participate in improving environmental sustainability. Governance Sinclair takes corporate governance and responsibilities to its stakeholders very seriously. We remain committed to finding the best representation to drive success in the organization in the years ahead. Diversity of thought, skills, background, and experience are important elements the Company looks for in its leadership team. In 2021, we took a number of actions to strengthen the governance of our company. We hired a Chief Compliance Officer and made some changes to our Board of Directors structure, including adding a regulatory committee and a nominating and corporate governance committee. We also announced our intent to increase the size of our Board by two members, from nine to eleven, to reflect further diversity and independence as we move forward in an evolving industry. One of the two positions was filled by Laurie Beyer in 2021, a new independent director and our first female Board member. Cybersecurity is a governance risk that remains a high priority. Both before and after the ransomware incident in October 2021 described under  Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding amendments to and waivers under the code of business conduct and ethics applicable to our Chief Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer by providing such information on our website within four days after effecting any amendment to, or granting any waiver under, that code, and we will maintain such information on our website for at least twelve months. In addition, a replay of each of our quarterly earnings conference calls is available on our website until the subsequent quarter’s earnings call.  The information contained on, or otherwise accessible through, our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated herein by reference. Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  and  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,  which will be included as part of our Proxy Statement for our 2021 Annual Meeting.) Significant divestitures by the Smiths could cause them to own or control less than 51% of the voting power of our shares, which in turn (i) could, as discussed under  A failure to comply with covenants under debt instruments could result in a default under such debt instruments, acceleration of amounts due under our debt and loss of assets securing our loans  within  Item 1. Business  for a detailed listing of our stations and channels as of December 31, 2021.   As network affiliation agreements come up for renewal, we (or licensees of the stations we provide programming and/or sales services to), may not be able to negotiate terms comparable to or more favorable than our current agreements. The non-renewal or termination of any of our network affiliation agreements would prevent us from being able to carry programming of the relevant network. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming, which may involve higher costs and which may not be as attractive to our target audiences, resulting in reduced revenues. Upon the termination of any of our network affiliation agreements, we would be required to establish a new network affiliation agreement for the affected station with another network or operate as an independent station.   We cannot predict the outcome of any future negotiations relating to our affiliation agreements or what impact, if any, they may have on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the impact of an increase in reverse network compensation payments, under which we compensate the network for programming pursuant to our affiliation agreements, may have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. See  Television Markets and Stations  within  Item 1. Business .) The FCC's multiple ownership rules and federal antitrust regulation may limit our ability to operate multiple television stations in some markets and may result in a reduction in our revenue or prevent us from reducing costs.  Changes in these rules may threaten our existing strategic approach to certain television markets. Television station ownership As discussed in  National Ownership Rule  under  Ownership Matters  under  Federal Regulation of Television Broadcasting  within  Item 1. Business , in December 2017, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to examine the National Ownership Rule, including the UHF discount, which remains pending. Because we are near the 39% cap without application of the UHF discount, changes to the UHF discount or National Ownership Rule could limit our ability to acquire television stations in additional markets.  As discussed in  Local Marketing and Outsourcing Agreements  under  Federal Regulation of Television Broadcasting  within  Item 1. Business , in August 2016, the FCC issued the Ownership Order to provide for the attribution of JSAs where two television stations are located in the same market and a party with an attributable interest in one station sells more than 15% of the advertising time per week of the other station. JSAs that existed prior to March 31, 2014, were allowed to remain in place until October 1, 2025. In 2017, in its Ownership Order on Reconsideration, the FCC eliminated the JSA attribution rule. On appeal, the Third Circuit vacated and remanded the Ownership Order on Reconsideration. The Ownership Order on Reconsideration was vacated and remanded by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in September 2019, but the Supreme Court ultimately reversed the Third Circuit’s decision on April 1, 2021 and the Ownership Order on Reconsideration (including elimination of the JSA attribution rule) is currently in effect. We have entered into outsourcing agreements (such as JSAs) whereby 34 stations provide various non-programming related services such as sales, operational and managerial services to or by other stations within the same markets.  For additional information, refer to  Television Markets and Stations  within  Item 1. Business.  See  Note 14. Variable Interest Entities  within the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for further discussion of our JSAs which we consolidate as variable interest entities. Certain of our stations have entered into LMAs pursuant to which we may provide programming to and sell advertising on a separately owned television station serving the same market. The FCC attributes LMAs to the programmer if the programmer provides more than 15% of a station’s weekly broadcast programming; provided, that, LMAs entered into prior to November 5, 1996, including ours, are currently exempt from attribution.  The FCC may review these exempted LMAs in the future and if it determines to terminate or modify the exempt period and make all LMAs fully attributable we will be required to terminate or modify our exempted LMAs unless the FCC’s local ownership rules would permit us to own both stations. As of December 31, 2021, we provide services under exempted LMAs to eight television stations owned by third parties. See  Note 14. Variable Interest Entities  within the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for further discussion of our LMAs which we consolidate as variable interest entities. As discussed in  Other Pending Matters  under  Federal Regulation of Television Broadcasting  within  ITEM 1B.                      UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   None. ITEM 2.                                       PROPERTIES   We own and lease facilities consisting of offices, studios, sales offices, and tower and transmitter sites throughout the U.S.  Our owned and leased transmitter and tower sites are located in areas to provide maximum signal coverage to our stations’ markets. We believe that all of our properties, both owned and leased, are generally in good operating condition, subject to normal wear and tear, and are suitable and adequate for our current business operations. We believe that no one property represents a material amount of the total properties owned or leased.    ITEM 3.                                       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS   We are a party to lawsuits, claims, and regulatory matters from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Actions currently pending are in various stages and no material judgments or decisions have been rendered by hearing boards or courts in connection with such actions.   See  Litigation  under  Note 13. Commitments and Contingencies  within the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for discussion related to certain pending lawsuits.   ITEM 4.                                       MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES   None. PART II   ITEM 6.            [RESERVED] ITEM 7.                                       MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward Looking Statements We make statements in this section that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. For a complete discussion of forward-looking statements, see the section in this report entitled “ Forward-Looking Statements .” Certain risks may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the following discussion. For a discussion of such risk factors, see  Item 1A. Risk Factors . Overview  The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis provides qualitative and quantitative information about our financial performance and condition and should be read in conjunction with the other sections in this annual report, including  ITEM 7A.                                          QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK   We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and consider entering into derivative instruments primarily for the purpose of reducing the impact of changing interest rates on our floating rate debt and to reduce the impact of changing fair market values on our fixed rate debt. See  Note 7. Notes Payable and Commercial Bank Financing  within the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for further discussion. We did not have any outstanding derivative instruments during the three years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019.   We are exposed to risk from the changing interest rates of our variable rate debt issued under the Bank Credit Agreements. As of December 31, 2021, our total variable rate debt under the Bank Credit Agreements was $5,612 million. We estimate that adding 1% to respective interest rates would result in an increase in our interest expense of $56 million.   ITEM 8.                                       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA   