-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 PiFyoA6e2z9oQEjIISnSTm1G2afdyeQpRzwyafnYuJggn6b8qnNX+JdlJy/ETVsK
 J0+eyH1lZpxiO67b6pXZ8Q==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000889331-98-000002.txt : 19980327
<SEC-HEADER>0000889331-98-000002.hdr.sgml : 19980327
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000889331-98-000002
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19980103
FILED AS OF DATE:		19980326
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LITTELFUSE INC /DE
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000889331
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SWITCHGEAR & SWITCHBOARD APPARATUS [3613]
		IRS NUMBER:				363795742
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20388
		FILM NUMBER:		98573920

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 E NORTHWEST HWY
		CITY:			DES PLAINES
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60016
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7088241188

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 E. NORTHWEST HWY
		CITY:			DES PLAINES
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60016
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>

                    Securities and Exchange Commission
                       Washington,  D.C. 20549
                         FORM 10-K

     [X]       Annual Report  Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
               of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934
(Mark One)     for the fiscal year ended  January 3, 1998
                              or
     [ ]       Transition  Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
               of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 for the
               transition period from to

                         Commission file number 0-20388

                                Littelfuse, Inc.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

     Delaware                                            36-3795742
(State or other jurisdiction of            (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)

800 East Northwest Highway,
Des Plaines, Illinois                                       60016
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

                                  847/824-1188
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

Securities  registered  pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock, $.01
par value, and Warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

         The aggregate market value of 19,734,809 shares of voting stock held by
non-affiliates  of the registrant was  approximately  $520,505,587  based on the
last reported sale price of the  registrant's  Common Stock,  $.01 par value, as
reported on the Nasdaq stock market on March 13, 1998.

         As of March 13, 1998, the registrant had outstanding  20,932,212 shares
of Common Stock,  $.01 par value,  and Warrants to purchase  2,789,663 shares of
Common Stock, $.01 par value.

     Portions  of the  following  documents  have  been  incorporated  herein by
     reference to the extent indicated herein:

     Littelfuse,   Inc.  Proxy  Statement  dated  March  24,  1998  (the  "Proxy
     Statement") --Part III.

     Littelfuse,  Inc. Annual Report to Stockholders  for the year ended January
     3, 1998 (the "Annual Report") -- Parts II and III.


<PAGE>


                                                      Part I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

General

         Littelfuse,   Inc.  (the  "Company"  or   "Littelfuse")  is  a  leading
manufacturer and seller of fuses and other circuit protection devices for use in
the electronic,  automotive and general industrial markets.  Management believes
the Company is ranked first in market share in the electronic  market,  first in
the  automotive  market  and third in the power  fuse  market in North  America.
Management believes that the Company, together with its licensees, is also first
in market  share in the  electronic  market and first in the  automotive  market
worldwide.

         In the electronic  market,  leading  manufacturers such as 3Com, Canon,
Compaq,  Hewlett Packard,  IBM, LG Electronics,  Lucent Technologies,  Motorola,
Nortel,  Panasonic,  Samsung,  Sharp,  Sony,  and Toshiba  obtain a  substantial
portion of their electronic circuit protection requirements from the Company. In
the automotive market, the Company or its licensees have customer  relationships
with all  leading  automobile  manufacturers  throughout  the world.  Littelfuse
provides  substantially  all of the automotive  fuse  requirements  for vehicles
manufactured  domestically  by General  Motors  Corporation  and is the  primary
supplier for Ford Motor Company,  Chrysler Corporation and all Japanese and most
European auto manufacturer  transplants.  The Company also competes in the power
fuse market selling to companies such as the Allen Bradley  division of Rockwell
International  and  Reliance  Electric.   In  addition  to  fuses,  the  Company
manufactures and supplies switches, circuit breakers and indicator lights to the
automotive industry and to appliance and general electronics manufacturers.  See
"Business Environment: Circuit Protection Market."

         The Company manufactures its products on fully integrated manufacturing
and  assembly  equipment,  much  of  which  is  designed  and  built  by its own
engineers.  The Company  fabricates and assembles a majority of its products and
maintains  product quality through a rigorous quality assurance program with all
sites (except the Philippines)  certified under ISO 9000 standards and its world
headquarters now certified under the QS9000 standards.

         The Company's  products are sold worldwide through a direct sales force
and manufacturers'  representatives.  In Asia Pacific,  the Company has licensed
its automotive fuse technology to a Japanese firm that supplies automotive fuses
to Pacific Rim customers.  For the year ended January 3, 1998, approximately 41%
of the Company's net sales were to customers  outside the United States (exports
and foreign operations).

         The Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on
November 25, 1991.  The Company is the successor to the business and assets of a
corporation of the same name ("Old Littelfuse"),  which was originally formed in
1927  and  subsequently  acquired  by  Tracor,  Inc.  ("Tracor")  in  1968.  Any
references  to  performance,  financial  results or other aspects of the Company
prior to December 27, 1991, relate to Old Littelfuse.

     References  herein to "1995" or "fiscal  1995" refer to the  calendar  year
ended December 31, 1995.  References  herein to "1996" or "fiscal 1996" refer to
the fiscal year ended December 28, 1996.  References herein to "1997" or "fiscal
1997"  refer to the fiscal  year ended  January 3, 1998.  Business  Environment:
Circuit Protection Market

         The  circuit  protection  market can be broadly  categorized  into five
major product areas:  electronic,  automotive,  industrial (power), high voltage
and  residential.  The  Company  sells  products  designed  for the  electronic,
automotive  and industrial  areas.  The Company  entered the circuit  protection
market  in 1927  with the  development  and  introduction  of the  first  small,
fast-acting fuse capable of protecting  sensitive test meters.  Since that time,
the Company has diversified its involvement in the circuit  protection market to
become a leader in the  production  of  electronic  and  automotive  fuses.  The
Company  also  entered the power fuse market in 1983 with a broad line of fuses,
including several proprietary  products.  The Company believes it is the circuit
protection  leader  because it designs and  produces  almost all the products it
sells in all three  markets  including the two markets where it holds the number
one market share position. See "Littelfuse Products."

         Electronic Products. Electronic circuit protection products are used to
protect  power  circuits  in a  multitude  of  electronic  systems.  Electronics
products fall into three major  categories:  (1) fuses,  (2)  protectors and (3)
resettables.  Electronics  fuses  generally  are of two  types -  miniature  and
subminiature. Miniature fuses are generally tubular in shape with glass, ceramic
and  composition  bodies.  Subminiature  devices  are used  where  space is at a
premium.  Protectors  are  fuses  produced  to a  less  rigorous  specification.
Resettables  are polymer PTC devices that limit the current when an  overcurrent
condition  exists and let current pass again after the cause of the  overcurrent
is removed.  Applications  for electronic  products  include  telecommunications
equipment,  computers and computer peripherals, power supplies, test and medical
instrumentation,  and  consumer  electronic  products.  There is also a  special
segment  of  the  electronic  circuit  protection  market  directed  toward  the
aerospace  industry.  These special  high-reliability  fuses are manufactured in
small quantities under extremely high quality control standards.

         Automotive Products. Fuses are extensively used in automobiles, trucks,
buses and off-road equipment to protect electrical circuits and wiring harnesses
supplying  electrical  power  to  operate  lights,  heating,  air  conditioning,
windshield wipers, radios, windows and controls. Currently, a typical automobile
contains 30 to 70 fuses,  depending upon the options  installed.  The market for
automotive  fuses is  expected  to grow in the coming  years as more  electronic
features  are  included in  automobiles  and as larger  amperage  fuses  replace
existing low technology fuses in wiring harnesses. Certain new vehicles, such as
the Cadillac Seville,  Ford 150 series truck,  Chrysler Concorde and the Jaguar,
contain  as many as 50 to 90 fuses and this  higher  fuse count is  expected  to
spread to other vehicles.

         Power  Products.   Power  fuses  include  both  current   limiting  and
non-current   limiting  devices  used  to  protect  electrical  systems  against
overcurrents.  Power fuses are rated and listed under one of many  Underwriters'
Laboratories fuse  classifications.  The three main end user market segments for
power  fuses  include  original  equipment  manufacturers  ("OEMs"),  industrial
maintenance  and repair  operations  ("MROs") and new  commercial and industrial
construction.  Major  applications  for  power  fuses  include  protection  from
over-load  and  short-circuit  currents in motor  branch  circuits,  heating and
cooling systems, control systems,  lighting circuits and electrical distribution
networks.  Other  applications  include the protection of semiconductor  devices
such as SCRs, diodes, thyristors, triacs and similar solid state devices.
                                                        -2-

Littelfuse Products

         General.  The Company is a leading manufacturer and seller of fuses and
other  circuit  protection  devices for use in the  electronic,  automotive  and
general  industrial  markets.  The  Company's  products are  marketed  under the
general  trademarked names of Littelfuse(R) and, where  appropriate,  Slo-Blo(R)
Fuse as well as the trademarked names of certain of its products listed below in
the description of the Company's electronic, automotive and power fuse products.

     Product Sales. Net sales of the Company's products by industry category for
the periods indicated are as follows:

<TABLE>

                                                                   Fiscal Year
                                                                  (in thousands)
                                         -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------

                                                1997                  1996                  1995
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------
<S>                                                 <C>                   <C>                    <C>
               Electronics                          $135,344              $112,667               $103,809
               Automotive                            102,774                94,391                 83,372
               Industrial (Power)                     37,047                34,388                 32,354
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------
                                         ==================== ===================== ======================
                    Total                           $275,165              $241,446               $219,535
                                         ==================== ===================== ======================
</TABLE>


         Electronic Products. The Company manufactures and sells a wide range of
electronic circuit  protection  products,  including  miniature and subminiature
fuses,  protectors and resettables.  Electronic miniature and subminiature fuses
are designed to provide circuit  protection in the limited space requirements of
electronic equipment.  The Company entered the protector market in late 1994 and
the  resettable  polymer  PTC  device  market in late  1996.  While the  Company
continues to develop its own resettable fuse products,  the Company also entered
into  agreements  with  Raychem  Corp.  in 1996 which allows the Company to sell
resettable fuses using certain of Raychem's technology.

The Company's  electronic  circuit  protection  products are marketed  under the
following trademarked and brand names:

              PICO(R) II Fuse is a very fast-acting subminiature fuse with axial
              leads which can be automatically inserted into a circuit board. It
              is used in consumer electronics,  computers,  medical instruments,
              power supplies and telecommunication line cards. It was originally
              developed for the aerospace  industry where  extremely  small size
              and  high  reliability  were  prime   requisites.   This  fuse  is
              encapsulated  with an epoxy coating  which  protects the fuse from
              adverse environmental  conditions. It can stand up under the rough
              treatment  found in high speed  automated  circuit board  assembly
              processes used by many different manufacturers.


                                                      -3-


<PAGE>


              2AG fuses are a miniature version of the standard 1/4" diameter by
              1-1/4"  long  glass  bodied  fuses  manufactured  for more than 40
              years. The fuse occupies about 1/3 of the space but still provides
              the  performance  of the larger  sized  product.  The  Company has
              developed a strong market in the telecommunications industry for a
              leaded  version of the 2AG fuse.  These fuses are used in business
              and  personal  telephone  systems,  answering  machines  and other
              equipment  connected to phone lines.  They are used to protect the
              system from  lightning  surges and  accidental  contact with power
              lines.  These  fuses  also  are  used  extensively  in  electronic
              ballasts for lighting.

              MICRO(TM)  Fuse is a plug-in style fuse about the size of a pencil
              eraser.  It is a very fast acting fuse and, like the PICO(R) Fuse,
              was  originally  designed  for the  emerging  aerospace  industry.
              Applications are  particularly  suited to equipment where the user
              might "blow" a fuse during  testing or by accidental  shorting out
              of the power supply.  The "plug-in"  feature allows the fuse to be
              quickly  and  easily   replaced   without  the  need  for  special
              de-soldering equipment.  The Company also manufactures sockets for
              the MICRO(TM) Fuse.

              NANO2 (R) SMF Fuse represents our fourth generation  surface mount
              fuse  product  line.  The compact  size (.240" x .100" x .100") of
              this  rectangular   shaped  fuse  is  very  attractive  to  design
              engineers.  In addition,  the flat side design  permits  efficient
              pick and placement by automated assembly equipment.  The NANO2 (R)
              SMF Fuse is used where space considerations are critical including
              laptop computers, camcorders and battery chargers.

              ALF(TM) II or "1206" SMF is a very fast acting  thin film  surface
              mount fuse  measuring  only .12 inch x .06 inch.  The super  small
              subminiature  size  assures  additional  space  savings in surface
              mount  applications.  It  is  completely  compatible  with  common
              soldering systems used in surface mount assembly  applications and
              it is  available  on 8mm  reels for use with  automatic  placement
              equipment.

              "0603"  SMF is a very fast  acting  thin film  surface  mount fuse
              measuring  only .06 inch x .03 inch. The 0603 is the smallest fuse
              available  and has a very  low  profile  .018  inches.  The  small
              physical  size along with low values for  resistance  and  voltage
              drop are  significant  features  of this new fuse for  battery and
              other low voltage applications.

              SMTelecom is the first  surface  mount fuse to comply with UL 1459
              and  UL  1950  third   edition   power  cross   requirements   for
              telecommunications. The new SMTelecom Fuse protects all phone line
              connected equipment against current surges resulting from power

                                                      -4-


<PAGE>


              cross, power induction and lightning strikes.  It is rated for 250
              volts with a 600 volt short circuit  rating.  Four current ratings
              are  offered,  from  0.75  to 1.5  amperes.  Applications  include
              modems, fax machines,  desktop telephones,  answering machines and
              line cards.

              Surface  Mount  PTC is  the  first  in  Littelfuse's  line  of PTC
              devices.  Its dimensions of 0.200" x 0.290" x 0.120" are ideal for
              circuit board applications where space is at a premium. It also is
              available  in an  0.340"  x  0.250"  x 0.10"  configuration.  This
              polymer surface mount PTC has the ability to reset itself once the
              fault or  overcurrent  condition has cleared.  This new product is
              used  primarily for computer and peripheral  applications  such as
              motherboards, disk drives, PC cards, modems, printers, etc.

              Radial Leaded PTC series is a 60-volt  radial leaded surface mount
              product.  This series was introduced in early 1997.  Radial leaded
              PTC applications include process and industrial controls, test and
              measurement equipment, security systems, motors and automotive.

         Automotive  Products.  The Company is a primary  supplier of automotive
fuses to United  States,  Japanese  and  European  automotive  OEMs,  automotive
component parts  manufacturers  and automotive parts  distributors.  The Company
also sells its fuses in the  replacement  parts market,  with its products being
sold through mass merchandisers,  discount stores and service stations,  as well
as under private label by national firms.  Management believes that it currently
is the leading worldwide supplier of automotive fuses for new vehicle production
and a leader for the aftermarket/replacement market.

         The Company  invented and owns all of the U.S.  patents  related to the
blade  type  fuse  which is the  standard  and most  commonly  used  fuse in the
automotive industry. The Company believes that, together with its licensees,  it
supplies  substantially  all of the blade type fuses used in the North  American
and  Japanese  markets  and a majority in the  European  market.  The  Company's
automotive fuse products are marketed under the following  trademarked and brand
names:

              AUTOFUSE(R)  or  ATO(R),  a standard  blade type fuse,  is used in
              automobiles  produced  worldwide and designed to provide  superior
              circuit  protection  in a small,  heat  resistant  package for low
              ampere applications.

              MINI(R) Fuse, smaller than its predecessor AUTOFUSE(R), is offered
              in a range from two amps to 30 amps and is designed to permit more
              fuses in the same amount of space than prior products.

              MAXI(TM) Fuse, a larger version of the  AUTOFUSE(R),  replaces the
              commonly  used low  technology  fusible  wire or fusible  links in
              automobile  electrical harnesses and is offered in a range from 20
              amps to 80 amps.
                                                      -5-
<PAGE>

              MIDI(R)  Fuse is a bolt down version of the  MAXI(TM)  fuse.  This
              style is preferred by some European customers in the 50 to 100 amp
              range. Its primary use is for heating,  air conditioning and motor
              control circuits.

              J-CASE Fuse,  is a cartridge  version of the Maxi(TM)  fuse.  This
              style  is  popular  with  Japanese  customers  in the 40 to 80 amp
              range.  Its  primary  use is for  branch  circuit  protection  and
              protection of circuits with inductive loads.

               MEGA(R)Fuse,  a higher  current  fuse with  ratings of 100 to 200
               amps, is used for protection of battery cables.

         Over half of the Company's North American  automotive (blade type) fuse
sales are made to wire harness  manufacturers  that  incorporate  the fuses into
their  products.  The  remaining  automotive  fuse  sales are made  directly  to
automotive manufacturers and through distributors who in turn sell most of their
products to  automotive  product  wholesalers,  such as warehouse  distributors,
discount stores and service stations.

         The Company believes it currently has adequate  production  capacity to
meet the  anticipated  increased  demand for  automotive  fuses  referred  to in
"Business  Environment:  Circuit  Protection  Market --  Automotive  Fuses." Any
required expenditures for additional machinery and equipment are expected to be
funded by cash flow from operations.

         The Company has  licensed  its  patented  ATO(R),  Mini(R) and Maxi(TM)
automotive fuse designs to Bussmann,  a division of Cooper Industries.  Bussmann
is the Company's  largest  domestic  competitor.  Additionally,  the Company has
entered into a licensing  agreement with Pacific  Engineering  Company,  Ltd., a
Japanese  fuse  manufacturer,  which  produces  and  distributes  the  Company's
patented ATO(R) and Mini(R)  automotive  fuses to the Pacific Rim  manufacturing
operations of Pacific Rim-based automobile manufacturers.  See "Competition" and
"Business -- Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property."

         Power  Products.  The Company entered the power fuse market in 1983 and
manufactures and sells a broad range of low-voltage  circuit protection products
to electrical distributors and their customers in the construction,  OEM and MRO
markets. Power fuses are used to protect circuits in various types of industrial
equipment and circuits in industrial  plants,  office  buildings and residential
units.  The  Company's  power fuse  products  are marketed  under the  following
classifications:

              Class L fuses are  commonly  used as the first line of  electrical
              protection in building service entrance equipment of high capacity
              electrical systems.  Other applications  include switchboard mains
              and feeders,  distribution equipment and branch circuit protection
              for large motors.

              Class R fuses are commonly used downstream from Class L fuses in a
              variety of branch circuit  applications.  Both time delay and fast
              acting  versions  cover a range  of  applications  including  main
              feeder, motor,
                                                      -6-


<PAGE>


              transformer and solenoids. The Company's RK5 INDICATOR fuse series
              has won numerous product awards and wide recognition by industrial
              plant  personnel.  These  fuses  have  an  integrated  blown  fuse
              indicator  that  turns  from  clear to dark once a fuse has blown.
              This reduces  troubleshooting time significantly and helps improve
              safety.

              Class J fuses are less  than  half the size of Class R to  provide
              substantial space savings. Applications for Class J are similar to
              Class R.  Additional  applications  include back up protection for
              circuit  breakers  and  protection  for both  IEC and  NEMA  rated
              devices.

              Class CC fuses, Littelfuse's KLDR (for transformer protection) and
              CCMR (for motor  branch  circuit  protection)  provide  protection
              formerly  supplied by fuses 10 times  larger.  Littelfuse  was the
              first to the market with these  products  and is the only  company
              with a CCMR rated up to 60 amps.

              Semiconductor  fuses,  designed for  supplementary  protection  of
              semiconducting devices, are used in electronic equipment and power
              equipment,  such as variable speed drives,  power rectifiers,  UPS
              systems and DC power suppliers.

              Midget  fuses,   seven  different  series  provide   supplementary
              overcurrent  protection  in such diverse  applications  as control
              circuits, control power transformers,  solenoids,  street lighting
              and computers.

         Other Products. In addition to the above products, the Company supplies
switches,  circuit breakers and indicator lights to the automotive  industry and
to  appliance  and  general  electronics  manufacturers.  The  Company is also a
supplier  of fuse  holders  (including  OMNI-BLOK(R)),  fuse  blocks  (including
Powr-Blok(R) power  distribution  systems) and fuse clips primarily to customers
that purchase circuit protection devices from the Company.

         The  LITTELITES(R)  indicating  lights product line includes  cartridge
lamps with miniature and subminiature lampholders and snap-mount plastic lights.
These lights come in incandescent, neon and solid state versions.  LITTELITES(R)
are sold to producers of  industrial  machinery,  office  machines,  appliances,
instruments and computers.

Product Design and Development

         The Company  employs  scientific,  engineering  and other  personnel to
improve its existing  product  lines and to develop new products at its research
and engineering facility in Des Plaines,  Illinois.  The Engineering  Department
consists of approximately 60 engineers, chemists, metallurgists, fusologists and
technicians.  This  department  is  primarily  responsible  for the  design  and
development  of new  products  and  consists of eight major  groups.  Two of the
groups are  dedicated to the design of certain  types of products,  specifically
electronic fuses, including automotive and general electronic fuses;  electrical
fuses, including power and industrial fuses.

                                                        -7-


<PAGE>



There are two engineering groups dedicated to materials engineering which brings
metallurgy,  plating and other  technologies  to bear on the  development of new
products.  One of the eight groups is responsible  for developing the technology
for advanced new  products.  There is one group  responsible  for  manufacturing
engineering  automation.  Finally, the two remaining  engineering support groups
oversee  trademark  compliance,  drafting  rooms  and an  electronics  lab.  The
electronics  lab  develops  the  necessary  tooling,  hardware  and software for
testing the standards and tolerances of sample  products and maintains the model
shop.

         Proposals for the  development of new products are initiated  primarily
by  marketing  managers,  members of the sales staff and  customers.  The entire
product development process typically takes between 12 and 18 months. During the
fiscal years ended  January 3, 1998,  December 28, 1996,  and December 31, 1995,
the Company expended  approximately $7.9 million, $7.3 million and $7.9 million,
respectively, on product design and development.

Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

         The Company  generally  relies on patent and trademark laws and license
and nondisclosure  agreements to protect its rights in its trade secrets and its
proprietary products.  In cases where it is deemed necessary by management,  key
employees  are  required  to sign an  agreement  that  they  will  maintain  the
confidentiality of the Company's proprietary information and trade secrets. This
is information, which for business reasons, is not disclosed to the public.

         As of January 3, 1998,  the Company owned 101 patents in North America,
19 patents in the European  Economic  Community  and 27 patents in other foreign
countries.  The Company has also registered  trademark protection for certain of
its brand names and logos.  The 101 North American  patents are in the following
categories:  48 Electronic,  5 Resettable,  25  Automotive,  15 Power Fuse and 8
miscellaneous.  Of the 25 automotive  patents, 7 are article and process patents
for the ATO(R)  type fuses,  9 are for the MINI(R) and MAXITM type fuses,  3 are
for the MEGA(R) and MIDI(R) type fuses and 6 are for other automotive  products.
Patents  expiring in 1998 cover  products  that  accounted for 1% of 1997 sales.
Patents  covering  products that  accounted for the balance of 1997 sales expire
between 1999 and 2016.

         The first  article  patent  covering  the  AUTOFUSE(R)  or ATO(R)  fuse
expired on September 30, 1992. However, the last improvement patent covering the
ATO(R)  fuse  expires on August 10,  1999.  The ATO(R)  fuse  product is further
protected  by  trademark  and  trade  dress  protection  which  has a  remaining
indefinite  life so long as it is continued to be correctly  used by the Company
and its licensees.

         New products are continually being developed to replace older products.
The  Company  regularly  applies  for patent  protection  on such new  products.
Although in the aggregate  the Company's  patents are important in the operation
of its businesses, the Company believes that the loss by expiration or otherwise
of any one patent or group of patents would not materially affect its business.



                                                        -8-


<PAGE>


         The Company currently licenses its MINI(R) and MAXI(TM) automotive fuse
technology  to  Bussmann,  a division  of Cooper  Industries  and the  Company's
largest  domestic  competitor.  The license granted in 1987 is nonexclusive  and
grants  the  Company  the right to  receive  royalties  of 4% of the  licensee's
revenues  from the sale of the  licensed  products  with an  annual  minimum  of
$25,000.  Each license  expires  upon the  expiration  of the  licensed  product
patents.

         The Company currently licenses its ATO(R) automotive fuse technology to
Pacific  Engineering  Company,  Ltd., a Japanese  manufacturer that produces and
distributes the Company's patented automotive fuses to Pacific Rim operations of
Pacific Rim-based automotive manufacturers. The license is exclusive as to Japan
and  non-exclusive  as to other  specified  Pacific Rim territories and provides
that the Company will receive royalties of 1.5% of the licensee's  revenues from
the sales of the licensed  products with a $25,000 annual minimum.  This license
expires on August 10, 1999. In addition,  a second license  covering the MINI(R)
Fuse  technology  was granted with  similar  territory  arrangements  to Pacific
Engineering and grants the Company the right to receive royalties of 2.5% of the
licensee's  revenues  from the sale of the  licensed  products,  with an  annual
minimum of $100,000. The second license expires on April 6, 2006.

         License royalties amounted to $332,000, $266,000 and $349,000 for 1997,
1996 and 1995 respectively.

Manufacturing

         Much of the Company's manufacturing equipment is custom designed by its
engineers,  and the Company  conducts the majority of its own  fabrication.  The
Company  stamps  most of the metal  components  used in its fuses,  holders  and
switches  from raw metal stock and makes its own contacts and springs.  However,
the Company does depend upon a single  source for a  substantial  portion of its
stamped  metal  end  caps  for  electronic  fuses.  The  Company  believes  that
alternative  stamping  sources are  available  at prices  which would not have a
material  adverse  effect on the  Company.  The Company  also  performs  its own
plating (silver,  nickel, zinc, tin and oxides). In addition,  all thermoplastic
molded component requirements used for such products as the AUTOFUSE(R), MINI(R)
and  MAXI(TM)  product  lines are met through  the  Company's  in-house  molding
capabilities.

         After components are stamped,  molded, plated and readied for assembly,
final assembly is accomplished on fully  automatic and  semi-automatic  assembly
machines.  Quality assurance and operations personnel,  using techniques such as
Statistical  Process Control,  perform tests, checks and measurements during the
production  process  to  maintain  the  highest  levels of product  quality  and
customer satisfaction.

         The principal raw materials for the Company's  products  include copper
and copper alloys,  heat resistant  plastics,  zinc,  melamine,  glass,  silver,
solder,  sulphate  clipboard  and  linerboard.  The Company  depends upon a sole
source for several heat resistant  plastics.  The Company believes that suitable
alternative  heat resistant  plastics are available from other sources at prices
which would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.  All of the other
raw materials are purchased from a number of readily available outside sources.

                                                        -9-
<PAGE>

         A computer-aided  design and manufacturing  system (CAD/CAM)  expedites
product  development  and  machine  design,  while  reliability  and high  power
laboratories test new products,  prototype  concepts and production run samples.
The Company  participates in  "Just-in-Time"  delivery programs with many of its
major  suppliers  and  actively  promotes  the  building  of strong  cooperative
relationships  with its suppliers by involving them in  pre-engineering  product
and process  development.  The Company also  sponsors an annual  major  supplier
conference and conducts a vendor certification program.

Marketing

         The Company's domestic sales staff of approximately 65 people maintains
relations with major OEMs and distributors.  The Company's sales and engineering
personnel  interact  directly with the OEM engineers to ensure  maximum  circuit
protection   and   reliability   within  the   parameters  of  the  OEM  design.
Internationally,  the Company maintains a sales staff of approximately 25 people
and sales offices in The Netherlands,  England,  Singapore, Korea and China. The
Company also markets its products indirectly through a worldwide organization of
approximately  125  manufacturers'  representatives  and distributes  through an
extensive network of electronic, automotive and electrical distributors.

         In addition to the normal risks associated with the Company's  domestic
operations,  the Company's international operations entail such further risks as
currency fluctuations and the effect of international  relations or the domestic
affairs of foreign countries on the conduct of business.  As of January 3, 1998,
the Company's  operations have been slightly effected by the currency turmoil in
Asia Pacific during the fourth quarter of 1997. For information  relating to the
constant  currency  effect see "Item 7.  Management  Discussion  and Analysis of
Financial  Conditions  and Results of  Operations - 1997  Compared to 1996." For
information relating to foreign sales, see note 8 to the Company's  consolidated
financial statements.

         Electronic. The Company has retained 23 manufacturers'  representatives
to sell its electronic products  domestically and additional  representatives to
sell its electronic  products  internationally.  These  representatives  call on
major OEMs and distributors.  Since the  manufacturers'  representatives  do not
maintain inventories,  the Company distributes approximately 38% of its domestic
products  directly  to OEMs,  with the  remainder  distributed  by more than 600
distributors nationwide.

         In Asia  Pacific,  the Company  maintains a direct  sales staff of five
people  in  Singapore,  one in  Hong  Kong,  four  in  Korea,  and  one or  more
manufacturers'  representatives in Japan,  Singapore,  Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan,
China, Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines and Australia. The Company also maintains
an engineering facility in Japan. In Europe, the Company's  distribution methods
differ from its  domestic  methods in that it  maintains a direct sales force of
eight  people  to  call  on  OEMs  exclusively  and  utilizes  approximately  15
manufacturers' representatives to approach distributors and smaller OEMs. Unlike
its domestic  representatives,  these  manufacturers'  representatives  purchase
inventory  from the Company to facilitate  delivery and reduce  financial  risks
associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations.


                                                       -10-


<PAGE>


         Automotive.  The Company sells  automotive fuses through a direct sales
force in Detroit  consisting  of four  employees.  Salespersons  service all the
major automotive OEMs (including the United States  manufacturing  operations of
foreign-based  OEMs) through both the engineering and purchasing  departments of
these  companies.  Twenty-eight  manufacturers'  representatives  distribute the
Company's  products to aftermarket  fuse  retailers such as Autozone,  Pep Boys,
K-Mart and NAPA.  In Europe,  the  Company  uses both a direct  sales  force and
manufacturers' representatives to distribute its products to Mercedes Benz, BMW,
Volvo, Saab, Jaguar and other OEMs, as well as aftermarket distributors. In Asia
Pacific,  the Company has licensed its automotive  fuse technology to a Japanese
firm  which  supplies  the  majority  of the  automotive  fuses to the  Japanese
manufacturing operations in the region including Toyota, Honda and Nissan.


         Power.  The  Company  markets  and  sells its power  fuses  through  42
manufacturers'  representatives across North America. These representatives sell
power fuse products  through an  electrical  distribution  network  comprised of
approximately 1,200 distributors. These distributors have customers that include
electrical contractors,  municipalities, utilities and factories (including both
MRO  and  OEM).  Some  of  the  manufacturers'  representatives  have  consigned
inventory in order to facilitate rapid customer delivery.

         The Company's field sales force (including  application  engineers) and
manufacturers'   representatives   call  on  both   distributors  and  end-users
(consulting  engineers,  municipalities,  utilities  and  OEMs) in an  effort to
educate these customers on the capabilities and characteristics of the Company's
products.


Customers

         The  Company  sells  to over  10,000  customers  worldwide.  No  single
customer  accounted  for more than 10% of net sales  during the last three years
except for its Japanese stocking representative which accounted for 11% in 1997.
The  Japanese  stocking  representative  serves over 100  customers  in the Asia
Pacific  electronics  market.  During the 1997, 1996 and 1995 fiscal years,  net
sales to customers  outside the United States  (exports and foreign  operations)
accounted  for  approximately  40.6%,  38.5%  and  35.3%,  respectively,  of the
Company's total net sales.

Competition

         The  Company's   products   compete  with  similar  products  of  other
manufacturers, many of which have substantially greater financial resources than
the Company.  In the  electronic  fuse market,  the  Company's  competitors  are
Bussmann, a division of Cooper Industries,  Bel Fuse, Inc., Raychem Corp., San-O
Industrial  Corp. and  Wickmann-Werke  GmbH. In the  fuseholder  portion of this
market, the Company's principal  competitor is Schurter,  Inc. In the automotive
fuse  market,  the  Company's  major  competitor,  both in sales  to  automobile
manufacturers and in the aftermarket,  is Bussmann. The Company licenses several
of its automotive fuse designs to Bussmann.  Other auto fuse competitors include
Pudenz and MTA. In the power fuse market,

                                                       -11-


<PAGE>


the Company's major  competitors  include Bussmann,  Gould, Inc and Ferraz.  The
Company believes that it competes primarily on the basis of innovative products,
the breadth of available  product lines,  the quality and design of its products
and the  responsiveness  of its  customer  service  rather  than  through  price
competition.

Backlog

         The Company  does not consider  backlog to be a  predictive  measure of
results due to the Company's short delivery time. The Company  manufactures high
volume  products  based on its  demand  forecasts  and  manufactures  low volume
products based on customer orders. The Company attempts to ship such products to
the customer within five business days of the date of the order. Over 90% of all
orders,  which request delivery within three weeks of the date of the order, are
filled on time from available stock or current production.

Employees

         During  1997,  the  Company  employed   approximately   2,845  persons.
Approximately  50  employees  in Des  Plaines  and 465  employees  in Mexico are
covered by collective bargaining  agreements.  The Des Plaines agreement expires
March 31, 1999 and the Mexico  agreement  expires  January 31, 1999. The Company
has not  experienced any work stoppage or other form of labor dispute within the
last 20 years.  The Company  believes that its employee  relations are excellent
and that its  employees,  many of whom have long  experience  with the  Company,
represent a valuable  resource.  The Company  emphasizes  employee  training and
development and has established  Quality  Improvement Process (QIP) training for
its  employees   worldwide  so  as  to  promote  product  quality  and  customer
satisfaction.

Environmental Regulation

         The Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations
relating to air and water quality,  the disposal of hazardous  waste  materials,
safety and health.  Compliance with applicable environmental regulations has not
significantly changed the Company's  competitive  position,  capital spending or
earnings  in the  past  and the  Company  does  not  presently  anticipate  that
compliance with such regulations will change its competitive  position,  capital
spending  or  earnings  for the  foreseeable  future.  The  Company  employs  an
environmental  engineer to monitor  regulatory  matters and believes  that it is
currently in compliance in all material  respects with applicable  environmental
laws and regulations.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

Littelfuse Facilities

         The Company's  operations are located in 20 owned or leased  facilities
worldwide,  containing  approximately 714,000 square feet. The U.S. headquarters
and principal  fabrication and distribution  facility is located in Des Plaines,
Illinois, supported by three additional plants in


                                                       -12-


<PAGE>


Illinois  and one in Mexico.  European  headquarters  and the  primary  European
distribution center is in Utrecht, The Netherlands, with manufacturing plants in
the  United  Kingdom  and  Switzerland.   Asia  Pacific   operations  include  a
distribution  center located in Singapore,  with manufacturing  plants in Korea,
China and the  Philippines.  The Company does not believe that it will encounter
any  difficulty  in renewing its existing  leases upon the  expiration  of their
current terms. Management believes that the Company's facilities are adequate to
meet its requirements for the foreseeable future.

          The  following  table  provides  certain  information  concerning  the
Company's facilities:

<TABLE>
                                                                                     Lease
                                                                                     Expir-
                                                        Size         Lease/          Ation        Industry
Location                          Use                   (sq.ft.)      Own             Date          Focus

<S>                               <C>                   <C>          <C>             <C>          <C>
Des Plaines, Illinois             Administrative,       340,000      Owned             --         Auto, Electronic, Power
                                  Engineering,
                                  Manufacturing,
                                  Testing and Research
Centralia, Illinois               Manufacturing          45,200      Owned            --          Electronic
Arcola, Illinois                  Manufacturing          36,000      Owned            --          Power
Watseka, Illinois                 Manufacturing          26,000      Leased(1)         1999       Auto, Electronic
Watseka, Illinois                 Storage                 5,000      Owned              --        Other

Farmington Hills, Michigan        Administrative          1,562      Leased            1999       Auto

Piedras Negras, Mexico            Manufacturing          50,300      Leased            2000       Auto, Electronic, Power
Piedras Negras, Mexico            Manufacturing         11,848       Leased            1998       Electronic and Power

Washington,                       Manufacturing,         60,000      Owned             --         Electronic, Auto, Other
England                           Sales and
                                  Distribution

Utrecht, The Netherlands          Warehousing             8,680      Leased            1998       Auto, Electronic, Other


                                                        -13-
<PAGE>

Utrecht, The Netherlands          Sales,                 12,000      Owned             --         Auto, Electronic, Other
                                  Administrative  and
                                  Engineering

Grenchen, Switzerland             Manufacturing          11,000      Owned             --         Auto
Singapore                         Sales and               5,845      Leased            1998       Electronic
                                  Distribution
Seoul, Korea                      Sales and             20,000       Leased            1998       Electronic, Auto
                                  Manufacturing

Seoul, Korea                      Sales and             29,175       Owned           --           Electronic
                                  Manufacturing
Philippines                       Manufacturing         7,530        Leased          1998         Electronic
Suzhou, China                     Manufacturing         40,000       Owned             --         Electronic

Hong Kong, China                  Sales                   920        Leased          1998         Electronic

Yokohama, Japan                   Engineering           1,815        Leased          1999         Electronic

Sao Paulo, Brazil                 Sales and
                                  Distribution          1,200        Leased          1998         Electronic, Auto
<FN>

(1)...........The  lease of the  manufacturing  facility in  Watseka,  Illinois,
provides  that the Company may purchase the leased  facility  upon certain terms
and conditions.
</FN>
</TABLE>



ITEM 3.   Legal Proceedings

         The Company is not a party to any legal  proceedings  which it believes
will have a material  adverse  effect  upon the  conduct of its  business or its
financial position.


ITEM 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         There were no matters  submitted to the Company's  stockholders  during
the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997.




                                                       -14-


<PAGE>


Executive Officers of Registrant

         The executive officers of the Company are as follows:

Name                     Age                           Position

Howard B. Witt           57                  Chairman of the Board, President
                                              and Chief Executive Officer

Kenneth R. Audino        54                  Vice President, Quality Assurance
                                              and Reliability

William S. Barron        55                  Vice President, Marketing and
                                              Sales

James F. Brace           52                  Vice President, Treasurer
                                              and Chief Financial Officer

David J. Krueger         60                  Vice President, Engineering

Lloyd J. Turner          54                  Vice President, Operations

Hans Ouwehand            51                  Vice President, European
                                              Operations

Mary S. Muchoney         52                  Secretary


Officers of  Littelfuse  are elected by the Board of Directors  and serve at the
discretion of the Board.

         Howard B. Witt was elected to the  position of Chairman of the Board in
May,  1993.  He was promoted to  President  and Chief  Executive  Officer of Old
Littelfuse in February  1990.  Prior to his  appointment  as President and Chief
Executive  Officer,  Mr. Witt served in several other key  management  positions
with Old  Littelfuse,  including  Operations  Manager from March 1979 to January
1986,  Vice  President-Manufacturing  from  January  1986 to January  1988,  and
Executive  Vice  President  with full  operating  responsibilities  for all U.S.
activities from January 1988 to February 1990.  Prior to joining Old Littelfuse,
Mr. Witt was a division  president of Keene  Corporation  from 1974 to 1979. Mr.
Witt currently serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Franklin Electric
Co.,  Inc.  and  Material  Sciences  Corporation.  He  also is a  member  of the
Electronic  Industries  Association  Board of Governors and is a director of the
Artisan Mutual Funds.

     Kenneth R. Audino,  Vice  President,  Quality  Assurance  and  Reliability,
oversees   all   product   reliability   and   quality   assurance    activities
corporate-wide.  He also directs corporate  environmental  affairs and serves as
the acting human resources department head. Mr. Audino

                                                       -15-


<PAGE>



joined Old  Littelfuse as a Control  Technician  in 1964.  From 1964 to 1977, he
progressed  through  several  quality and  reliability  positions  to Manager of
Reliability and Standards.  In 1983, he became Managing Director of the European
Headquarters of Old Littelfuse and later was named Corporate Director of Quality
Assurance and Reliability. He was promoted to his current position in 1988.

     William S. Barron, Vice President,  Sales and Marketing, has responsibility
for the general direction of all sales, marketing and related support functions.
He also is  responsible  for the  Information  Services  Department.  Mr. Barron
joined Old Littelfuse in March 1991.  From August 1981 to March 1991, Mr. Barron
served as Director of Sales and Marketing of Cinch Manufacturing and the General
Manager of one of its domestic divisions. Cinch Manufacturing is a subsidiary of
Labinal Corporation.

         James F. Brace, Vice President,  Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer,
has responsibility for the treasury,  financial control and financial  reporting
functions of the Company.  Mr. Brace joined the Company in May 1992.  From April
1987 to May 1992,  he was  employed by Sanford  Corporation,  a marker,  writing
instrument  and office  supplies  manufacturer.  At Sanford he was elected Chief
Financial  Officer in April 1987,  Treasurer in April 1988 and Vice President in
July 1989.  From March 1983 to April 1987 he was Vice  President  - Finance  and
Administration  of  Iroquois  Industries  Corp.,  a paper  and  office  supplies
distributor.

         David J.  Krueger,  Vice  President,  Engineering,  directs all product
feasibility,  design, development and testing activities. Joining Old Littelfuse
as an  Industrial  Fuse  Engineering  Manager in 1982,  he was named  Manager of
Circuit  Protection  Devices in 1984,  promoted to Director  of  Engineering  in
January  1986 and  promoted to his  current  position  one year later.  Prior to
joining  Old  Littelfuse,  Mr.  Krueger  worked  for 15 years as an  Engineering
Manager for the Economy Fuse Division of Federal Electric,  and for six years as
a Plant Manager for Federal Pacific Reliance Electric.

         Lloyd J. Turner,  Vice President,  Operations,  has  responsibility for
manufacturing  operations and related support  functions.  Mr. Turner joined Old
Littelfuse in October 1988, as Director of Manufacturing Operations after having
served as an  Operations  Manager with Texas  Instruments  from November 1984 to
September 1988. He was promoted to his current position in 1991.

         Hans  Ouwehand,  Vice  President,  European  Operations,  has  complete
responsibility  for  all  sales,  marketing,   research  and  development,   and
manufacturing activities covering the entire range of electronic, automotive and
aftermarket  products  sold by the Company in Europe.  Mr.  Ouwehand  joined Old
Littelfuse in 1984 as Sales Manager, Europe,  Electronics Division. He was later
promoted  to the  position  of  European  Sales and  Marketing  Manager  for all
Littelfuse  products  and in 1986 to the  position  of General  Manager-European
Operations.  Prior to joining Old Littelfuse, his industrial background included
research and development work with Sperry Rand and sales and product  management
with Lameris Medical Instruments.


                                                       -16-


<PAGE>



         Mary S. Muchoney has served as Corporate  Secretary  since 1991,  after
joining Old Littelfuse in 1977. She is responsible for providing all secretarial
and  administrative   functions  for  the  President  and  Littelfuse  Board  of
Directors.  Ms.  Muchoney  is a member  of the  American  Society  of  Corporate
Secretaries.
                                                      PART II

ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

     The information set forth under  "Quarterly  Stock Price" on page 39 of the
Annual Report to Stockholders is  incorporated  herein by reference.  It is also
included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC. As of March 13, 1997, there were
301  holders  of record  of the  Company's  Common  Stock and in excess of 2,400
beneficial holders of its Common Stock.

         Since  September 22, 1992,  shares of the Common Stock have been traded
in the  over-the-counter  market and  quotations  are reported  using the symbol
"LFUS" on the Nasdaq stock market.
          The  Company  has not paid any cash  dividends  since  reorganization.
Future  dividend  policy will be determined by the Board of Directors based upon
their evaluation of earnings,  cash availability and general business prospects.
Currently,  there are restrictions on the payment of dividends  contained in the
Company's Credit Agreement which relate to the maintenance of certain restricted
payment ratios.

ITEM 6.  Selected Financial Data

         The  information  set forth under  "Selected  Financial Data - Six Year
Summary" on page 39 of the Annual Report to Stockholders is incorporated  herein
by reference. It is also included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC.

ITEM 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

         The information set forth under  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis
of Financial  Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 20 through 25 of the
Annual Report to Stockholders is  incorporated  herein by reference.  It is also
included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC.

ITEM 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

     The  Report  of  Independent  Auditors,   and  the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  and Notes thereto of the Company set forth on pages 26 through 37 of
the Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference. They are
also included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC.


                                                       -17-


<PAGE>



ITEM  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

         None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The  information  set forth under  "Election of Directors" in the Proxy
Statement is incorporated  herein by reference.  The information set forth under
"Executive  Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this Report is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation

         The information set forth under "Compensation of Executive Officers" in
the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference, except for the sections
captioned "Reports of the Compensation Committee on Executive  Compensation" and
"Company Performance."

ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

         The information set forth under  "Ownership of Littelfuse,  Inc. Common
Stock" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         The  information  set forth under  "Certain  Relationships  and Related
Transactions" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

               (a)         Financial Statements and Schedules

                     (1)   Financial   Statements.   The   following   financial
                           statements   included   in  the   Annual   Report  to
                           Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference.

                           (i)    Report of Independent Auditors (page 38)

                           (ii)  Consolidated  Statements of Financial Condition
                                 as of January  3, 1998 and  December  28,  1996
                                 (pages 26 and 27).
                           (iii) Consolidated Statements of Income for the years
                                 ended  January 3, 1998,  December  28, 1996 and
                                 December 31, 1995 (page 28).

                                                       -18-


<PAGE>



                           (iv)  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the
                                 years ended January 3, 1998,  December 28, 1996
                                 and December 31, 1995 (page 29).

                           (v)   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                                 for the years ended  January 3, 1998,  December
                                 28, 1996 and December 31, 1995.
                                 (page 30).

                            (vi)   Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
                                   (pages 30-37).

                (2)   Financial  Statement  Schedules.  The following  financial
                      statement schedules are submitted herewith for the periods
                      indicated therein.

                    (I)  Schedule   II-Valuation  and  Qualifying  Accounts  and
                    Reserves

                      All other  schedules  for which  provision  is made in the
                      applicable  accounting  regulation of the  Securities  and
                      Exchange  Commission  are not  required  under the related
                      instructions or are inapplicable and, therefore, have been
                      omitted.

                (3)   Exhibits

                      See Exhibit Index on pages 22-24,  incorporated  herein by
                      reference.

    (b)         Reports on Form 8-K

                There were no  reports on Form 8-K during the fourth  quarter of
                1997.



















                                                       -19-


<PAGE>

<TABLE>


                                LITTELFUSE, INC.
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                 (In Thousands)



                                                                Additions
                                               Balance at       Charged to                               Balance at
                                               Beginning        Costs and             Deductions          End of
        Description                            Of Year          Expenses                   (A)             Year
                                               ----------       ----------            ----------         -------
Year ended January 3, 1998
  Allowance for losses on
<S>                                            <C>              <C>                  <C>                <C>
    accounts receivable . . . . . .            $    896         $   410              $   188            $ 1,118
                                               ========         =======                =======            =======

  Reserves for sales discounts
    and allowances . . . . . . . .             $ 4,161          $  620               $    --            $ 4,781
                                               =======          ======                 =========          =======



Year ended December 28, 1996
  Allowance for losses on
    accounts receivable . . . . .              $    863         $   236              $   203            $   896
                                               =========        =======                 =======           ========
  Reserves for sales discounts
    and allowances . . . . . . .               $ 3,038          $ 1,123              $   --             $  4,161
                                               ========         =======                =========          ========



Year ended December 31, 1995
  Allowance for losses on
    accounts receivable . . . . .              $     716        $   275              $   128            $    863
                                               =========        =======                =========          ========
  Reserves for sales discounts
    and allowances . . . . . . .               $  2,525         $   513              $    --            $  3,038
                                               ========         =======                =========          ========

<FN>


(A) Write-off of uncollectible  accounts, net of recoveries and foreign currency
translation.
</FN>
</TABLE>



                                                       -20-
<PAGE>

                                                    SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                      Littelfuse, Inc.

                                                    By /s/ Howard B. Witt
                                                           Howard B. Witt,
                                                        Chairman, President and
                                                         Chief Executive Officer

Date:  March 24, 1998

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

/s/ Howard B. Witt                           Chairman of the Board, President
Howard B. Witt                                  and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ John P.  Driscoll                        Director
John P. Driscoll


/s/ Anthony Grillo                           Director
Anthony Grillo

/s/ Bruce A. Karsh                           Director
Bruce A. Karsh


/s/ John E. Major                            Director
John  E. Major


/s/ John J. Nevin                            Director
John J. Nevin


/s/ James F. Brace                           Vice President, Treasurer
James F. Brace                                and Chief Financial Officer
                                              (Principal Financial Officer)





                                                       -21-

<PAGE>
<TABLE>


                                                  LITTELFUSE INC.
                                                 INDEX TO EXHIBITS
<S>       <C>                                                                                        <C>
                                                                                                     Sequentialc)
                                                                                                     Page Number
Number                                Description of Exhibit a)
2.1        Plan of Reorganization under Chapter 11 of the  Bankruptcy Code of
           Old Littelfuse.

b) 3.1     Certificate of Incorporation (as amended to date).

3.1A Certificate of  Designations  of Series A Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit
     4.2 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated  December  1, 1995
     (1934 Act File No. 0-20388) and incorporated herein by reference.)

b)3.2 Bylaws

4.1  Credit  Agreement among  Littelfuse,  Inc., as borrower,  the lenders named
     therein  and the First  National  Bank of  Chicago,  as agent,  dated as of
     August 31, 1993.  (filed as exhibit 4.1 to the  Company's  Form 10K for the
     year ended December 31, 1993) and incorporated herein by reference.

4.1A Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement,  dated as of March 31, 1994. (Filed as
     Exhibit  4.1A to the  Company's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
     1995.) and incorporated herein by reference).

4.1B Amendment No. 2 to Credit  Agreement,  dated as of June 16, 1995. (Filed as
     Exhibit  4.1A to the  Company's  Form 10-K for the year ended  December 31,
     1995.) and incorporated herein by reference).

4.2  Registration  Rights  Agreement,  dated as of December  27,  1991,  between
     Littelfuse, Inc. and The Toronto-Dominion Bank Trust Company, as agent.

4.3  Warrant Agreement, dated as of December 27, 1991, between Littelfuse, Inc.,
     and LaSalle National Trust,  N.A., as warrant agent,  together with form of
     Warrant.  (filed  as  exhibit  4.3A  to the  Company's  Form  10-Q  for the
     quarterly  period  ended  June 28,  1997  (1934  Act File No.  -20388)  and
     incorporated herein by reference).

- ------------
<FN>

a)   All of the exhibits,  (except those filed herewith or specifically noted as
     being   incorporated  by  reference  from  a  different  filing  under  the
     Securities as of 1933 or Securities  act of 1934) were filed as exhibits to
     the Company's Form 10 as filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission
     which became  effective on September  16, 1992 (1934 Act File No.  0-20388)
     and are incorporated herein by reference.

b)   Filed herewith.

c) This information appears only in the manually signed copy of the report.

d)   Indicates an employee  benefit plan,  management  contract or  compensatory
     plan or arrangement in which a named executive officer participates.

</FN>
</TABLE>

                                      -22-


<PAGE>
<TABLE>

<S>       <C>                                                                                        <C>
                                                                                                     Sequentialc)
                                                                                                     Page Number
                                    Description of Exhibit a)
Number

b)4.4 Stock Plan for Employees and Directors of Littelfuse, Inc. d)

4.5  Form of Stock Option Agreement

4.6  Specimen Common Stock certificate.

4.7  Littelfuse,  Inc.  Retirement  Plan dated  January 1, 1992,  as amended and
     restated.d)

4.8  Littelfuse, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan.d)

4.9  Note  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  as  of  August  31,  1993,  relating  to
     $45,000,000  principal  amount of  Littelfuse,  Inc. 6.31% Senior Notes due
     August 31, 2000.

b)4.10 Littelfuse Rights Plan Agreement,  dated as of December 15, 1995, between
     Littelfuse,  Inc. and LaSalle National Bank, as Rights Agent, together with
     Exhibits thereto.

10.1 Lease Agreement (with option to purchase), dated December 27, 1991, between
     Littelfuse, Inc. and Westmark Systems, Inc.

10.2 Tax  Indebtedness  Sharing  Agreement,  dated  December 27,  1991,  between
     Littelfuse, Inc., Tracor, Inc. and certain other companies.

10.3 Patent License Agreement,  dated as of July 28, 1995,  between  Littelfuse,
     Inc. and Pacific  Engineering  Company,  Ltd.(filed  as exhibit 10.3 to the
     Company's Form 10K for the year ended December 28, 1996)

10.4 MINI(R) and MAXITM License  Agreement,  dated as of June 21, 1989,  between
     Littelfuse, Inc. and McGraw-Edison Company.

10.5 Patent License Agreement,  dated as of January 1, 1987, between Littelfuse,
     Inc. and Cooper Industries, Inc.

b)10.6 1993 Stock Plan for Employees and Directors of Littelfuse, Inc. d)
</TABLE>


                                                -23-


<PAGE>
<TABLE>



<S>       <C>                                                                                      <C>
                                                                                                   Sequentialc)
                                                                                                   Page Number

Number                           Description of Exhibit a)

10.7 Littelfuse, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.d)

10.8 Littelfuse Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-employee Directors. (filed as
     exhibit  10.8A to the Company's  Form 10-Q for the  quarterly  period ended
     June 28,  1997  (1934  Act File No.  0-20388)  and  incorporated  herein by
     reference.)d)

10.9 Littelfuse  Executive  Loan Program (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's
     Form 10Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 1995 (1934 Act File No.
     0-20388) and incorporated herein by reference.)d)

10.10 Employment Agreement dated as of September 1, 1996 between Littelfuse, Inc.
      and Howard B. Witt. d)

10.11 Change  of  Control  Employment  Agreement  dated as of  September  1, 1996
      between Littelfuse, Inc. and Howard B. Witt. d)

10.12 Form of change of Control  Employment  Agreement  dated as of  September 1,
      1996 between Littelfuse,  Inc. and Messrs. Anderson, Audino, Barron, Brace,
      Krueger and Turner. d)

b)13.1 Portions of Littelfuse  Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year
       ended January 3, 1998.

b)22.1 Subsidiaries.

b)23.1 Consent of Independent Auditors.


</TABLE>









                                                -24-


<PAGE>




                                                 Exhibit 22.1

                                                 SUBSIDIARIES

Littelfuse, S.A. de C.V.
Littelfuse FSC
Littelfuse Do Brazil

Littelfuse, B.V.
Littelfuse, A.G.
Littelfuse Limited

Littelfuse Far East PTE Ltd.
Littelfuse HK Limited
Littelfuse Holdings Pte Ltd
Suzhou Littelfuse OVS Ltd
Sam Hwa Littelfuse Inc. (65% owned)
Littelfuse KK
Littelfuse Triad Inc.
Littelfuse Phils Inc

























                                                     -25-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>FDS FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED 1/3/98
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<MULTIPLIER>                                   1,000
<CURRENCY>                                     usd
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                              Jan-03-1998
<PERIOD-START>                                 Dec-29-1997
<PERIOD-END>                                   Jan-03-1998
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                1
<CASH>                                         755
<SECURITIES>                                   0
<RECEIVABLES>                                  37,458
<ALLOWANCES>                                   5,899
<INVENTORY>                                    39,075
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               83,856
<PP&E>                                         141,230
<DEPRECIATION>                                 70,467
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 221,885
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          51,725
<BONDS>                                        0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                          0
<PREFERRED>                                    0
<COMMON>                                       199
<OTHER-SE>                                     0
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   221,885
<SALES>                                        275,165
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               275,165
<CGS>                                          164,034
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  0
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                               0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                               0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                             4,103
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                40,652
<INCOME-TAX>                                   15,310
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                            0
<DISCONTINUED>                                 0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                0
<CHANGES>                                      0
<NET-INCOME>                                   25,342
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                  1.28
<EPS-DILUTED>                                  1.07
        


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.2
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>RESTATED FDS FOR FAS 128 FOR YEARS 1996 & 1995
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE>                     5
<MULTIPLIER>                                   1,000
<CURRENCY>                                     USD
       
<S>                             <C>                         <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR                        YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                              DEC-28-1996       DEC-31-1995
<PERIOD-START>                                 JAN-01-1996       JAN-01-1995
<PERIOD-END>                                   DEC-28-1996       DEC-31-1995
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                1                 1
<CASH>                                         1,427             1,308
<SECURITIES>                                   0                 0
<RECEIVABLES>                                  35,468            29,722
<ALLOWANCES>                                   5,057             3,901
<INVENTORY>                                    31,586            30,076
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               73,809            65,023
<PP&E>                                         121,311           104,764
<DEPRECIATION>                                 57,422            43,535
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 209,951           205,186
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          51,044            45,817
<BONDS>                                        0                 0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                          0                 0
<PREFERRED>                                    0                 0
<COMMON>                                       198               102
<OTHER-SE>                                     0                 (3,533)
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   209,951           205,186
<SALES>                                        241,446           219,535
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               241,446           219,535
<CGS>                                          143,158           129,663
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  0                 0
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                               0                 0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                               0                 0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                             4,235             4,279
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                34,094            29,880
<INCOME-TAX>                                   12,359            10,608
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                            0                 0
<DISCONTINUED>                                 0                 0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                0                 0
<CHANGES>                                      0                 0
<NET-INCOME>                                   21,735            19,272
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                  1.09              0.95
<EPS-DILUTED>                                  0.91              0.78
        


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.(I)
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>


                                                                 Exhibit 3.1


                            CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT
                                     OF THE
                          CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                                LITTELFUSE, INC.


         Pursuant to Sectiona242 of the General  Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware,  LITTELFUSE,  INC., a corporation  organized and existing under and by
virtue of the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware
(hereinafter referred to as the oCorporationo), does hereby certify:


     FIRST:  That the original  Certificate of  Incorporation of the Corporation
was filed in the Office of the  Secretary  of State of Delaware on  Novembera25,
1991.


         SECOND:  That, pursuant to the affirmative vote of all of the directors
of the  Corporation  at a meeting of the board of directors  held on February 7,
1997, and the affirmative  vote by stockholders of the Corporation  representing
more than a majority of the  outstanding  shares of the Common Stock,  par value
$.01 per share, of the Corporation at the annual meeting of the  stockholders of
the Corporation held on April 25, 1997, all in accordance with the provisions of
Sectiona242 of the General  Corporation Law of the State of Delaware,  the board
of directors and  stockholders  of the  Corporation  duly approved and adopted a
resolution  providing  that  Section  1 of  Article  IV of  the  Certificate  of
Incorporation of the Corporation be amended in its entirety to read as follows:


                  Section 1.  The  aggregate  number of shares of capital  stock
         which the  Corporation  shall have  authority  to issue is  Thirty-five
         Million  (35,000,000) shares, of which Thirty-four Million (34,000,000)
         shares  shall be  designated  Common  Stock,  par value  $.01 per share
         (oCommon  Stocko),   and  One  Million   (1,000,000)  shares  shall  be
         designated  Preferred  Stock,  par  value  $.01 per  share  (oPreferred
         Stocko).  The shares  designated  as Common Stock shall have  identical
         rights and privileges in every respect.


         THIRD:  That said amendment to the Certificate of  Incorporation  shall
become  effective upon filing of this  Certificate of Amendment in the Office of
the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.


     IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  LITTELFUSE,  INC.  has  caused  this  Certificate  of
Amendment to be executed by its President as of the 25th day of April, 1997.


                                                     LITTELFUSE, INC.




                                                      By


                                                      Howard B. Witt, President
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.(II)
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>



                                                                 Exhibit 3.2
                                                                AMENDED 2/6/98






==============================================================================


















                                     BYLAWS

                                       OF

                                LITTELFUSE, INC.















=============================================================================




<PAGE>

<TABLE>




                                TABLE OF CONTENTS


SECTION                                                HEADING                                                                PAGE


<S>                        <C>
ARTICLE I.                 OFFICES...............................................................................................1

       Section 1.              Registered Office.................................................................................1
       Section 2.              Other Offices.....................................................................................1


ARTICLE II.                STOCKHOLDERS..........................................................................................1

       Section 1.              Annual Meeting....................................................................................1
       Section 2.              Special Meeting...................................................................................1
       Section 3.              Place of Meeting..................................................................................1
       Section 4.              Notice of Meeting.................................................................................1
       Section 5.              Quorum and Adjournment............................................................................2
       Section 6.              Proxies...........................................................................................2
       Section 7.              Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations....................................................2
       Section 8.              Procedure for Election of Directors; Required Vote................................................4
       Section 9.              Inspectors of Election; Opening and Closing the Polls.............................................5
       Section 10.             Record Date for Action by Written Consent.........................................................5
       Section 11.             Inspectors of Written Consent.....................................................................5
       Section 12.             Effectiveness of Written Consent..................................................................6


ARTICLE III.               DIRECTORS.............................................................................................6

       Section 1.              Management........................................................................................6
       Section 2.              Number; Election..................................................................................6
       Section 3.              Change in Number..................................................................................6
       Section 4.              Removal...........................................................................................6
       Section 5.              Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships.........................................................7
       Section 6.              Election of Directors; Cumulative Voting Prohibited...............................................7
       Section 7.              Place of Meetings.................................................................................7
       Section 8.              First Meetings....................................................................................7
       Section 9.              Regular Meetings..................................................................................7
       Section 10.             Special Meetings..................................................................................7
       Section 11.             Quorum............................................................................................7
       Section 12.             Action Without Meeting; Telephone Meetings........................................................8
       Section 13.             Chairman of the Board.............................................................................8
       Section 14.             Compensation......................................................................................8


ARTICLE IV.                COMMITTEES............................................................................................8

       Section 1.              Designation.......................................................................................8
       Section 2.              Number; Qualification; Term.......................................................................8
       Section 3.              Authority.........................................................................................9
       Section 4.              Committee Changes; Removal........................................................................9
       Section 5.              Alternate Members of Committees...................................................................9
       Section 6.              Regular Meetings..................................................................................9
       Section 7.              Special Meetings..................................................................................9
       Section 8.              Quorum; Majority Vote.............................................................................9
       Section 9.              Minutes...........................................................................................9
       Section 10.             Compensation......................................................................................9
       Section 11.             Responsibility...................................................................................10


ARTICLE V.                 NOTICES..............................................................................................10

       Section 1.              Method...........................................................................................10
       Section 2.              Waiver...........................................................................................10
       Section 3.              Exception to Notice Requirement..................................................................10


ARTICLE VI.                OFFICERS.............................................................................................11

       Section 1.              Officers.........................................................................................11
       Section 2.              Election.........................................................................................11
       Section 3.              Compensation.....................................................................................11
       Section 4.              Removal and Vacancies............................................................................11
       Section 5.              President........................................................................................11
       Section 6.              Vice Presidents..................................................................................11
       Section 7.              Secretary........................................................................................12
       Section 8.              Assistant Secretaries............................................................................12
       Section 9.              Treasurer........................................................................................12
       Section 10.             Assistant Treasurers.............................................................................12


ARTICLE VII.               CERTIFICATES REPRESENTING SHARES.....................................................................12

       Section 1.              Certificates.....................................................................................12
       Section 2.              Legends..........................................................................................13
       Section 3.              Lost Certificates................................................................................13
       Section 4.              Transfer of Shares...............................................................................13
       Section 5.              Registered Stockholders..........................................................................13


ARTICLE VIII.              GENERAL PROVISIONS...................................................................................13

       Section 1.              Dividends........................................................................................13
       Section 2.              Reserves.........................................................................................14
       Section 3.              Checks...........................................................................................14
       Section 4.              Fiscal Year......................................................................................14
       Section 5.              Seal.............................................................................................14
       Section 6.              Indemnification..................................................................................14
       Section 7.              Transactions with Directors and Officers.........................................................14
       Section 8.              Amendments.......................................................................................14
       Section 9.              Table of Contents; Headings......................................................................15

</TABLE>

<PAGE>



                                     BYLAWS
                                       OF
                                LITTELFUSE, INC.
                               (the "Corporation")


                                    ARTICLE I


                                     OFFICES


Section 1. Registered  Office. The registered office of the Corporation shall be
at 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware 19801.




Section 2. Other Offices.  The  Corporation  may also have offices at such other
places, both within and without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors
may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.


                                   ARTICLE II


                                  STOCKHOLDERS


Section  1.  Annual  Meeting.  An  annual  meeting  of the  stockholders  of the
Corporation  shall be held each calendar year on such date and at such place and
time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.


Section 2. Special  Meeting.  Subject to the rights of the holders of any series
of stock having a  preference  over the Common  Stock of the  Corporation  as to
dividends or upon liquidation (oPreferred Stocko) with respect to such series of
Preferred Stock,  special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the
Chairman  of the Board or by the Board of  Directors  pursuant  to a  resolution
adopted by a majority of the total  number of  directors  which the  Corporation
would have if there were no vacancies (the oWhole Boardo).


Section 3. Place of  Meeting.  The Board of  Directors  or the  Chairman  of the
Board,  as the case may be, may  designate  the place of meeting  for any annual
meeting or for any special  meeting of the  stockholders  called by the Board of
Directors or the Chairman of the Board.  If no designation is so made, the place
of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.


Section 4. Notice of Meeting.  Written or printed notice, stating the place, day
and hour of any annual meeting or special  meeting of the  stockholders  and the
purpose or purposes  for which the meeting is called,  shall be delivered by the
Corporation not less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the
date of the meeting, either personally or by mail, to each stockholder of record
entitled to vote at such meeting.  If mailed,  such notice shall be deemed to be
delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid,
addressed to the stockholder at the address  therefor as it appears on the stock
transfer books of the Corporation.  Such further notice shall be given as may be
required by law. Only such business  shall be conducted at a special  meeting of
stockholders  as shall have been  brought  before the  meeting  pursuant  to the
CorporationAEs  notice of meeting.  Meetings may be held  without  notice if all
stockholders  entitled  to vote are  present or if notice is waived by those not
present  in  accordance  with  Sectiona2  of  ArticleaV  of  these  Bylaws.  Any
previously  scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed,  and (unless
the Certificate of Incorporation  otherwise provides) any special meeting of the
stockholders  may be cancelled,  by  resolution  of the Board of Directors  upon
public notice given prior to the date  previously  scheduled for such meeting of
stockholders.


Section  5.  Quorum  and  Adjournment.  Except  as  otherwise  provided  by  the
Certificate  of  Incorporation,  the  holders of a majority  of the  outstanding
shares  of the  Corporation  entitled  to  vote  generally  in the  election  of
directors  (the  oVoting  Stocko),  represented  in person  or by  proxy,  shall
constitute  a quorum at a meeting of  stockholders,  except that when  specified
business is to be voted on by a class or series of stock voting as a class,  the
holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series  shall  constitute a
quorum  of such  class or  series  for the  transaction  of such  business.  The
Chairman of the meeting or a majority of the shares so  represented  may adjourn
the meeting from time to time,  whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice
of the time and place of adjourned  meetings need be given except as required by
law.  The  stockholders  present at a duly  called  meeting at which a quorum is
present may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the
withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.


Section 6. Proxies.  At all meetings of stockholders,  a stockholder may vote by
proxy  executed  in  writing  (or in  such  manner  prescribed  by  the  General
Corporation  Law of the  State  of  Delaware)  by the  stockholder,  or by  such
stockholderAEs duly authorized attorney in fact.


Section 7. Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.


                   (A)  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders.  (1)  Nominations  of
         persons for election to the Board of Directors of the  Corporation  and
         the proposal of business to be  considered by the  stockholders  may be
         made  at  an  annual  meeting  of  stockholders   (a) pursuant  to  the
         Corporation's  notice of meeting,  (b) by or at the  direction  of the
         Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was
         a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in
         this  Section  7(A)  who is  entitled  to vote at the  meeting  and who
         complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 7(A).


                   (2) For nominations or other business to be properly  brought
         before an annual  meeting by a  stockholder  pursuant  to clause (c) of
         Section 7(A)(1) of these Bylaws, the stockholder must have given timely
         notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the  Corporation and such
         other  business  must  otherwise  be a proper  matter  for  stockholder
         action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the
         Secretary at the principal  executive  offices of the  Corporation  not
         later than the close of business  on the 60th day nor earlier  than the
         close of business on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the
         preceding  year's annual meeting of stockholders;  provided,  however,
         that in the event  that the date of the  annual  meeting  to which such
         stockholder's  notice relates is more than 30 days before or more than
         60 days after such  anniversary  date,  notice by the stockholder to be
         timely must be so  delivered  not earlier than the close of business on
         the 90th day prior to such annual  meeting and not later than the close
         of business  on the later of the 60th day prior to such annual  meeting
         or the 10th day following the day on which public  announcement  of the
         date of such  annual  meeting is first made by the  Corporation.  In no
         event  shall the public  announcement  of an  adjournment  of an annual
         meeting  commence a new time period for the giving of a  stockholder's
         notice as described above. Such  stockholder's  notice shall set forth
         (a) as to each person  whom the  stockholder  proposes to nominate  for
         election or re-election as a director all information  relating to such
         person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for
         election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required,
         in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the  Securities  Exchange
         Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 14a-11 thereunder
         (including  such person's  written consent to being named in the proxy
         statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as
         to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the
         meeting,  a brief  description  of the  business  desired to be brought
         before the meeting,  the reasons for  conducting  such  business at the
         meeting and any material  interest in such business of such stockholder
         and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made;
         and (c) as to the  stockholder  giving the  notice  and the  beneficial
         owner,  if any, on whose behalf the  nomination or proposal is made (i)
         the  name  and  address  of such  stockholder,  as they  appear  on the
         Corporation's  books,  and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class
         and number of shares of the  Corporation  which are owned  beneficially
         and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner.


                   (3)  Notwithstanding  anything  in  the  second  sentence  of
         Section 7(A)(2) of these Bylaws to the contrary,  in the event that the
         number of  directors  to be  elected to the Board of  Directors  of the
         Corporation  is increased  and there is no public  announcement  by the
         Corporation  naming all of the nominees for director or specifying  the
         size of the increased  Board of Directors at least 70 days prior to the
         first   anniversary  of  the  preceding   yearAEs  annual  meeting,   a
         stockholder's  notice  required  by this  Section  7(A)  shall also be
         considered  timely,  but only  with  respect  to  nominees  for any new
         positions  created by such  increase,  if it shall be  delivered to the
         Secretary at the principal  executive  offices of the  Corporation  not
         later than the close of business on the 10th day  following  the day on
         which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.


                   (B) Special  Meetings  of  Stockholders.  Only such  business
         shall be conducted at a special  meeting of  stockholders as shall have
         been brought before the meeting pursuant to the  CorporationAEs  notice
         of  meeting.  Nominations  of  persons  for  election  to the  Board of
         Directors  may be made at a special  meeting of  stockholders  at which
         directors are to be elected  pursuant to the  Corporation's  notice of
         meeting (a) by or at the  direction  of the Board of  Directors  or (b)
         provided  that the Board of Directors  has  determined  that  directors
         shall be elected at such special  meeting,  by any  stockholder  of the
         Corporation  who is a  stockholder  of  record at the time of giving of
         notice provided for in this Section 7(B), who shall be entitled to vote
         at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in
         this Section 7(B). In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting
         of  stockholders  for the purpose of electing one or more  directors to
         the Board of Directors,  any such  stockholder may nominate a person or
         persons  (as the case may be),  for  election  to such  position(s)  as
         specified   in  the   Corporatio'Es   notice   of   meeting,   if  the
         stockholder's notice required by Section 7(A)(2) of these Bylaws shall
         be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the
         Corporation  not  earlier  than the close of  business  on the 90th day
         prior to such special  meeting and not later than the close of business
         on the later of the 60th day prior to such special  meeting or the 10th
         day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the
         date of the special  meeting and of the nominees  proposed by the Board
         of  Directors  to be elected  at such  meeting.  In no event  shall the
         public  announcement of an adjournment of a special meeting  commence a
         new time period for the giving of a stockholder's  notice as described
         above.


                   (C)  General.  (1) Only such  persons  who are  nominated  in
         accordance  with the procedures  set forth in this  Section 7  shall be
         eligible  to  serve  as  directors  and  only  such  business  shall be
         conducted  at a meeting  of  stockholders  as shall  have been  brought
         before the meeting in accordance  with the procedures set forth in this
         Section 7.  Except as  otherwise  provided by law, the  Certificate  of
         Incorporation  or these Bylaws,  the Chairman of the meeting shall have
         the power and duty to determine  whether a  nomination  or any business
         proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed,  as the
         case may be,  in  accordance  with  the  procedures  set  forth in this
         Section 7  and,  if  any  proposed  nomination  or  business  is not in
         compliance with this Section 7, to declare that such defective proposal
         or nomination shall be disregarded.


                   (2) For  purposes of this  Section 7,  "public  announcement"
         shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News
         Service,  Associated Press or comparable  national news service or in a
         document  publicly  filed by the  Corporation  with the  Securities and
         Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange
         Act.


                   (3)   Notwithstanding   the  foregoing   provisions  of  this
         Section 7,   a  stockholder  shall  also  comply  with  all  applicable
         requirements  of  the  Exchange  Act  and  the  rules  and  regulations
         thereunder  with  respect to the matters  set forth in this  Section 7.
         Nothing in this  Section 7  shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of
         stockholders  to request  inclusion of proposals in the  Corporation's
         proxy statement pursuant to Rulea14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (b) of
         the holders of any series of Preferred  Stock to elect  directors under
         specified circumstances.




Section 8.  Procedure  for Election of  Directors;  Required  Vote.  Election of
directors  at all  meetings of the  stockholders  at which  directors  are to be
elected  shall be by ballot  and,  subject to the  rights of the  holders of any
series of Preferred Stock to elect directors  under specified  circumstances,  a
plurality of the votes cast thereat shall elect  directors.  Except as otherwise
provided by law,  the  Certificate  of  Incorporation  or these  Bylaws,  in all
matters other than the election of directors, the affirmative vote of a majority
of the  shares  present in person or  represented  by proxy at the  meeting  and
entitled to vote on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders.


Section 9. Inspectors of Election;  Opening and Closing the Polls.  The Board of
Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or
inspectors  may  include   individuals   who  serve  the  Corporation  in  other
capacities,  including,  without limitation, as officers,  employees,  agents or
representatives,  to act at a meeting of stockholders  and make a written report
thereof.  One or more persons may be  designated  as  alternative  inspectors to
replace any  inspector  who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate  has been
appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of
the meeting  shall appoint one or more  inspectors  to act at the meeting.  Each
inspector,  before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to
execute  faithfully  the  duties  of  inspector  with  strict  impartiality  and
according  to the best of his or her  ability.  The  inspectors  shall  have the
duties  prescribed by law. The Chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at
the  meeting  the date and time of the  opening and the closing of the polls for
each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting.


Section  10.  Record  Date for  Action by  Written  Consent.  In order  that the
Corporation  may  determine  the  stockholders  entitled to consent to corporate
action in writing  without a meeting,  the Board of  Directors  may fix a record
date,  which  record date shall not  precede the date upon which the  resolution
fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of  Directors,  and which  record
date  shall  not be more  than ten (10)  days  after  the date  upon  which  the
resolution  fixing the record  date is  adopted by the Board of  Directors.  Any
stockholder  of  record  seeking  to have  the  stockholders  authorize  or take
corporate  action by written  consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary,
request the Board of  Directors  to fix a record  date.  The Board of  Directors
shall  promptly,  but in all events within ten (10) days after the date on which
such a request is  received,  adopt a resolution  fixing the record date.  If no
record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within ten (10) days of the
date on which  such  request  is  received,  the  record  date  for  determining
stockholders  entitled  to consent  to  corporate  action in  writing  without a
meeting,  when no  prior  action  by the  Board  of  Directors  is  required  by
applicable  law,  shall be the  first  date on which a  signed  written  consent
setting  forth the action  taken or  proposed  to be taken is  delivered  to the
Corporation  by delivery to its  registered  office in Delaware,  its  principal
place of business or to any officer or agent of the  Corporation  having custody
of the book in which  proceedings  of meetings  of  stockholders  are  recorded.
Delivery  made to the  Corporation's  registered  office shall be by hand or by
certified or registered mail,  return receipt  requested.  If no record date has
been fixed by the Board of Directors  and prior action by the Board of Directors
is required by  applicable  law,  the record date for  determining  stockholders
entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at
the close of  business  on the date on which the Board of  Directors  adopts the
resolution taking such prior action.


Section 11. Inspectors of Written Consent. In the event of the delivery,  in the
manner  provided by  Section 10  of this Article II, to the  Corporation  of the
requisite  written  consent or consents to take corporate  action and/or related
revocation or revocations,  the Corporation shall engage  nationally  recognized
independent  inspectors  of elections  for the purpose of promptly  performing a
ministerial  review of the  validity of the consents  and  revocations.  For the
purpose of  permitting  the  inspectors  to perform  such  review,  no action by
written  consent  without a meeting  shall be  effective  until such date as the
independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents delivered to
the  Corporation in accordance  with  Section 10 of this Article II represent at
least the minimum  number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate
action.  Nothing  contained in this Sectiona11  shall in any way be construed to
suggest or imply that the Board of  Directors  or any  stockholder  shall not be
entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation  thereof,  whether
before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any
other action (including,  without limitation,  the commencement,  prosecution or
defense of any litigation  with respect  thereto,  and the seeking of injunctive
relief in such litigation).


Section 12.  Effectiveness of Written Consent.  Every written consent shall bear
the date of signature of each  stockholder  who signs the consent and no written
consent  shall be effective  to take the  corporate  action  referred to therein
unless,  within  60 days of the date the  earliest  dated  written  consent  was
received in accordance with Section 10 of this Article II,  a written consent or
consents  signed by a  sufficient  number of  holders  to take such  action  are
delivered to the  Corporation  in the manner  prescribed  in  Section 10 of this
Article II.


                                   ARTICLE III


                                    DIRECTORS




Section 1.  Management.  The  business and affairs of the  Corporation  shall be
managed  by its Board of  Directors,  who may  exercise  all such  powers of the
Corporation  and do all such lawful  acts and things as are not by statute,  the
Certificate  of  Incorporation  or  these  Bylaws  directed  or  required  to be
exercised or done by the stockholders. The Board of Directors shall keep regular
minutes of its proceedings.


Section 2. Number;  Election. The number of directors which shall constitute the
whole Board of Directors  shall be six (6). No directors need be stockholders or
residents of the State of Delaware. The directors shall be elected at the annual
meeting of the stockholders,  except as hereinafter provided,  and each director
elected  shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified or until
his earlier resignation or removal.


Section  3.  Change in Number.  The  number of  directors  may be  increased  or
decreased  from time to time by  resolution  of the Board of  Directors,  but no
decrease shall have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent director.


Section 4. Removal.  Any director may be removed,  with or without cause, at any
annual or  special  meeting  of  stockholders,  by the  affirmative  vote of the
holders of a majority  of the shares  represented  in person or by proxy at such
meeting and entitled to vote for the election of such director, if notice of the
intention to act upon such matters  shall have been given in the notice  calling
such meeting.


Section  5.   Vacancies   and  Newly   Created   Directorships.   Vacancies  and
newly-created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number
of  directors  may be filled by a  majority  of the  directors  then in  office,
although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining  director.  Each director so
chosen  shall hold office until the first annual  meeting of  stockholders  held
after his election and until his successor is elected and qualified or until his
earlier resignation or removal. If at any time there are no directors in office,
an election of directors may be held in the manner  provided by statute.  Except
as otherwise  provided in these Bylaws,  when one or more directors shall resign
from the Board of  Directors,  effective  at a future  date,  a majority  of the
directors then in office,  including those who have so resigned,  shall have the
power to fill such  vacancy or  vacancies,  the vote thereon to take effect when
such resignation or resignations  shall become  effective,  and each director so
chosen shall hold office as provided in these Bylaws with respect to the filling
of other vacancies.


Section  6.  Election  of  Directors;  Cumulative  Voting  Prohibited.  At every
election of directors,  each stockholder  shall have the right to vote in person
or by proxy the  number of voting  shares  owned by him for as many  persons  as
there are directors to be elected and for whose election he has a right to vote.
Cumulative voting shall be prohibited.


Section 7. Place of Meetings.  The directors of the  Corporation  may hold their
meetings,  both  regular  and  special,  either  within or without  the State of
Delaware.


Section 8. First  Meetings.  The first meeting of each newly elected Board shall
be held without  further  notice  immediately  following  the annual  meeting of
stockholders,  and at  the  same  place,  unless  by  unanimous  consent  of the
directors then elected and serving, such time or place shall be changed.


section 9. Regular  Meetings.  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be
held  without  notice  at such  time and  place as  shall  from  time to time be
determined by the Board of Directors.


Section 10. Special Meetings.  Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be
called by the President on twenty-four (24) hoursAE notice to each director,  if
by telecopier,  electronic  facsimile or hand  delivery,  or on three (3) daysAE
notice to each  director,  if by mail or by  telegram.  Special  meetings may be
called in like manner and on like  notice on the  written  request of any one of
the directors.  Except as may be otherwise  expressly  provided by statute,  the
Certificate  of  Incorporation  or these  Bylaws,  neither  the  business  to be
transacted  at, nor the purpose of, any special  meeting  need be specified in a
notice or waiver of notice.


Section 11. Quorum. At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the presence of a
majority of the  directors  shall be necessary  and  sufficient  to constitute a
quorum  for the  transaction  of  business,  and the vote of a  majority  of the
directors  present at any meeting at which a quorum is present  shall be the act
of the Board of Directors,  except as may be otherwise  specifically provided by
statute,  or the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. If a quorum shall
not be present at any meeting of directors,  the directors  present  thereat may
adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at
the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.


Section 12. Action Without Meeting;  Telephone Meetings.  Any action required or
permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee
thereof may be taken  without a meeting if a consent in writing,  setting  forth
the action so taken,  is signed by all the members of the Board of  Directors or
committee, as the case may be. Such consent shall have the same force and effect
as a unanimous vote at a meeting.  Subject to applicable  notice  provisions and
unless otherwise restricted by the Certificate of Incorporation,  members of the
Board of Directors,  or any committee designated by the Board of Directors,  may
participate  in and hold a meeting by means of  conference  telephone or similar
communications  equipment  by means of which all  persons  participating  in the
meeting can hear each other, and  participation in such meeting shall constitute
presence in person at such meeting,  except where a personAEs  participation  is
for the express  purpose of objecting to the  transaction of any business on the
ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.


Section 13.  Chairman of the Board.  The Board of Directors may elect a Chairman
of the Board to preside at their  meetings  and to perform  such other duties as
the Board of Directors may from time to time assign to him.


Section  14.  Compensation.  Directors,  as such,  shall not  receive any stated
salary for their services, but, by resolution of the Board of Directors, a fixed
sum and expenses of  attendance,  if any, may be allowed for  attendance at each
regular or special  meeting of the Board of  Directors;  provided,  that nothing
herein  contained  shall be construed to preclude any director  from serving the
Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor.


                                   ARTICLE IV


                                   COMMITTEES




Section 1.  Designation.  The Board of Directors may, by resolution  passed by a
majority of the entire Board of Directors, designate one or more committees.


Section 2. Number;  Qualification;  Term. Each committee shall consist of one or
more directors appointed by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board
of Directors. The number of committee members may be increased or decreased from
time to time  by  resolution  adopted  by a  majority  of the  entire  Board  of
Directors.  Each  committee  member  shall  serve as such until the  earliest of
(i) the expiration of his term as director,  (ii) his resignation as a committee
member or as a director,  or  (iii) his  removal as a  committee  member or as a
director.


Section 3. Authority.  Each committee,  to the extent expressly  provided in the
resolution of the Board of Directors establishing such committee, shall have and
may exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors in the management of
the  business  and  affairs of the  Corporation  except to the extent  expressly
restricted by statute, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws.


Section 4. Committee  Changes;  Removal.  The Board of Directors  shall have the
power at any time to fill  vacancies  in, to change  the  membership  of, and to
discharge any committee. The Board of Directors may remove any committee member,
at any time, with or without cause.


Section 5. Alternate Members of Committees. The Board of Directors may designate
one or more directors as alternate members of any committee.  Any such alternate
member may  replace  any  absent or  disqualified  member at any  meeting of the
committee.


Section 6.  Regular  Meetings.  Regular  meetings of any  committee  may be held
without notice at such time and place as may be designated  from time to time by
the committee and communicated to all members thereof.


Section 7.  Special  Meetings  Special  meetings  of any  committee  may be held
whenever  called by any  committee  member.  The  committee  member  calling any
special meeting shall cause notice of such special  meeting,  including  therein
the time and place of such special meeting, to be given to each committee member
at least  (i)atwenty-four  (24) hours before such  special  meeting if notice is
given by telecopy,  electronic facsimile or hand delivery or (ii)aat least three
days  before  such  special  meeting if notice is given by mail or by  telegram.
Neither  the  business  to be  transacted  at, nor the  purpose  of, any special
meeting of any committee  need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of
any special meeting.


Section 8. Quorum;  Majority Vote. At meetings of any  committee,  a majority of
the number of members  designated by the Board of Directors  shall  constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business.  If a quorum is not present at a meeting
of any committee, a majority of the members present may adjourn the meeting from
time to time, without notice other than an announcement at the meeting,  until a
quorum is present.  The act of a majority of the members  present at any meeting
at which a quorum is in attendance  shall be the act of a committee,  unless the
act of a greater number is required by law, the Certificate of  Incorporation or
these Bylaws.


Section 9. Minutes.  Each committee shall cause minutes of its proceedings to be
prepared and shall report the same to the Board of Directors upon the request of
the Board of Directors.  The minutes of the  proceedings of each committee shall
be delivered to the  Secretary of the  Corporation  for  placement in the minute
books of the Corporation.


Section 10.  Compensation.  Committee members may, by resolution of the Board of
Directors,  be  allowed a fixed sum and  expenses  of  attendance,  if any,  for
attending any committee meetings or a stated salary.


Section 11. Responsibility.  The designation of any committee and the delegation
of  authority  to it shall not operate to relieve the Board of  Directors or any
director of any responsibility imposed upon it or such director by law.


                                    ARTICLE V


                                     NOTICES




Section 1. Method.  Whenever by statute,  the Certificate of  Incorporation,  or
these Bylaws, notice is required to be given to any committee member,  director,
or  stockholder  and no  provision is made as to how such notice shall be given,
personal  notice shall not be required,  and any such notice may be given (a)ain
writing, by mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such committee member, director,
or  stockholder  at his  address as it appears on the books or (in the case of a
stockholder) the stock transfer records of the Corporation,  or (b)aby any other
method permitted by law (including but not limited to overnight courier service,
telegram,  telex,  or telefax).  Any notice required or permitted to be given by
mail shall be deemed to be given when  deposited  in the United  States  mail as
aforesaid.  Any notice  required or permitted  to be given by overnight  courier
service  shall be deemed to be given at the time  delivered to such service with
all charges prepaid and addressed as aforesaid. Any notice required or permitted
to be given by telegram, telefex, or telefax shall be deemed to be delivered and
given  at the time  transmitted  with  all  charges  prepaid  and  addressed  as
aforesaid.



Section  2.  Waiver.  Whenever  any  notice  is  required  to be  given  to  any
stockholder,  director,  or committee member of the Corporation by statute,  the
Certificate of Incorporation  or these Bylaws, a written waiver thereof,  signed
by the person or persons  entitled to such notice,  whether  before or after the
time stated therein, shall be equivalent to notice. Attendance of a stockholder,
director,  or committee  member at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice
of such  meeting,  except when the person  attends  for the  express  purpose of
objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the  transaction of any business on
the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.



Section 3. Exception to Notice  Requirement.  The giving of any notice  required
under any provision of the General Corporation Law of Delaware,  the Certificate
of  Incorporation  or these  Bylaws  shall  not be  required  to be given to any
stockholder  to whom  (i) notice of two  consecutive  annual  meetings,  and all
notices of  meetings  or of the taking of action by  written  consent  without a
meeting  to such  stockholder  during the period  between  such two  consecutive
annual meetings, or (ii) all, and at least two, payments (if sent by first class
mail) of dividends or interest on securities during a twelve-month  period, have
been mailed  addressed  to such person at his address as shown on the records of
the Corporation and have been returned  undeliverable.  If any such  stockholder
shall deliver to the Corporation a written notice setting forth his then current
address,  the  requirement  that  notice be given to such  stockholder  shall be
reinstated.


                                   ARTICLE VI


                                    OFFICERS




Section 1.  Officers.  The officers of the  Corporation  shall be elected by the
directors  and  shall be a  President,  a Vice  President,  a  Secretary,  and a
Treasurer.  The Board of  Directors  may also  choose a  Chairman  of the Board,
additional Vice  Presidents and one or more Assistant  Secretaries and Assistant
Treasurers.  Any two or more offices may be held by the same person, except that
no person shall be both the President and the Secretary.



Section 2.  Election.  The Board of  Directors at its first  meeting  after each
annual meeting of stockholders shall elect the officers of the Corporation, none
of whom need be a member of the Board,  a stockholder or a resident of the State
of Delaware.  The Board of Directors may appoint such other  officers and agents
as it shall  deem  necessary,  who shall be  appointed  for such terms and shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to
time by the Board of Directors.



Section 3.  Compensation.  The  compensation  of all  officers and agents of the
Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.


Section 4. Removal and  Vacancies.  Each officer of the  Corporation  shall hold
office  until his  successor  is  elected  and  qualified  or until his  earlier
resignation  or removal.  Any officer or agent elected or appointed by the Board
of  Directors  may be removed  either for or without  cause by a majority of the
directors  represented  at a meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum
is  represented,  whenever in the  judgment of the Board of  Directors  the best
interests of the Corporation  will be served thereby,  but such removal shall be
without prejudice to the contract rights,  if any, of the person so removed.  If
the office of any  officer  becomes  vacant for any  reason,  the vacancy may be
filled by the Board of Directors.


Section 5. President.  The President shall be the chief executive officer of the
Corporation.  He shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board
of Directors  unless the Board of Directors shall elect a Chairman of the Board,
in which event the President  shall preside at Board  meetings in the absence of
the  Chairman  of the  Board.  The  President  shall  have  general  and  active
management  of the business and affairs of the  Corporation,  shall see that all
orders and  resolutions of the Board are carried into effect,  and shall perform
such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.


Section 6. Vice  Presidents.  In the absence of the President or in the event of
his  inability to refusal to act, the Vice  President  (or in the event there is
more than one Vice President, the vice presidents in the order designated by the
Board, or in the absence of any designation, then in the order of their election
or  appointment)  shall perform the duties of the President,  and when so acting
shall have all the powers of and be subject to all of the restrictions  upon the
President. Each Vice President shall have only such powers and perform only such
duties  as the Board of  Directors  may from  time to time  prescribe  or as the
President may from time to time delegate to him.


Section 7.  Secretary.  The Secretary  shall attend all sessions of the Board of
Directors  and all  meetings  of the  stockholders  and record all votes and the
minutes  of all  proceedings  in a book to be kept for that  purpose  and  shall
perform  like  duties  for any  committee  when  required.  Except as  otherwise
provided herein,  the Secretary shall give, or cause to be given,  notice of all
meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and
shall  perform such other duties as may be  prescribed by the Board of Directors
or President, under whose supervision he shall be. He shall keep in safe custody
the seal of the  Corporation  and,  when  authorized  by the Board of Directors,
affix the same to any instrument requiring it, and, when so affixed, it shall be
attested by his  signature or by the  signature of the Treasurer or an Assistant
Secretary.


Section 8. Assistant Secretaries.  Each Assistant Secretary shall have only such
powers and perform only such duties as the Board of  Directors  may from time to
time prescribe or as the President may from time to time delegate.


Section 9.  Treasurer.  The  Treasurer  shall have the custody of the  corporate
funds and securities  and shall keep full and accurate  accounts of receipts and
disbursements of the Corporation and shall deposit all monies and other valuable
effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as
may be designated by the Board of Directors.  He shall disburse the funds of the
Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors,  taking proper vouchers
for such disbursements,  and shall render to the President and directors, at the
regular meetings of the Board of Directors,  or whenever they may require it, an
account of all his  transactions as Treasurer and of the financial  condition of
the  Corporation,  and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors
may  prescribe.  If  required  by the  Board of  Directors,  he  shall  give the
Corporation  a bond in such form,  in such sum, and with such surety or sureties
as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful  performance
of the duties of his office and for the restoration to the Corporation,  in case
of his death,  resignation,  retirement  or removal from  office,  of all books,
papers,  vouchers,  money, and other property of whatever kind in his possession
or under his control belonging to the Corporation.


Section 10. Assistant Treasurers.  Each Assistant Treasurer shall have only such
powers and perform only such duties as the Board of  Directors  may from time to
time prescribe.


                                   ARTICLE VII


                        CERTIFICATES REPRESENTING SHARES



Section 1.  Certificates.  The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by
certificates in such form as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. Such
certificates  shall be consecutively  numbered and shall be entered in the books
of the Corporation as they are issued.  Each certificate shall state on the face
thereof the holderAEs name, the number and class of shares, and the par value of
such  shares or a  statement  that such  shares  are  without  par  value.  Each
certificate  shall be signed by the  President  or a Vice  President  and by the
Secretary  or an  Assistant  Secretary  and may be  sealed  with the seal of the
Corporation  or  a  facsimile  thereof.  Any  or  all  of  the  signatures  on a
certificate may be facsimile.


Section 2. Legends.  The Board of Directors shall.  have the power and authority
to  provide  that  certificates  representing  shares of stock  shall  bear such
legends  as  the  Board  of  Directors  shall  authorize,   including,   without
limitation,  such legends as the Board of Directors deems  appropriate to assure
that the  Corporation  does not become liable for violations of federal or state
securities laws or other applicable law.


Section  3. Lost  Certificates.  The  Corporation  may  issue a new  certificate
representing  shares  in  place of any  certificate  theretofore  issued  by the
Corporation,  alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of
an affidavit of that fact by the person  claiming  the  certificate  to be lost,
stolen  or  destroyed.  The  Board  of  Directors,  in its  discretion  and as a
condition precedent to the issuance thereof, may require the owner of such lost,
stolen or destroyed certificate,  or his legal representative,  to advertise the
same in such manner as it shall specify and/or to give the Corporation a bond in
such form,  in such sum,  and with such  surety or  sureties as it may direct as
indemnity  against  any claim  that may be made  against  the  Corporation  with
respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.


Section 4. Transfer of Shares. Shares of stock shall be transferable only on the
books  of the  Corporation  by the  holder  thereof  in  person  or by his  duly
authorized attorney.  Upon surrender to the Corporation or the transfer agent of
the  Corporation  of  a  certificate   representing   shares  duly  endorsed  or
accompanied  by proper  evidence  of  succession,  assignment  or  authority  to
transfer,  it shall be the duty of the  Corporation or the transfer agent of the
Corporation to issue a new  certificate to the person entitled  thereto,  cancel
the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books.


Section 5. Registered  Stockholders.  The Corporation shall be entitled to treat
the  holder of  record  of any  share or  shares of stock as the  holder in fact
thereof  for any and all  purposes,  and,  accordingly,  shall  not be  bound to
recognize  any  equitable  or other claim or interest in such share or shares on
the part of any other  person,  whether  or not it shall  have  express or other
notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law.


                                  ARTICLE VIII

                               GENERAL PROVISIONS



Section 1. Dividends.  The directors,  subject to any restrictions  contained in
the Certificate of  Incorporation,  may declare dividends upon the shares of the
CorporationAEs  capital stock. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in
shares of the Corporation,  subject to the provisions of the General Corporation
Law of Delaware and the Certificate of Incorporation.


Section 2. Reserves. By resolution of the Board of Directors,  the directors may
set apart out of any of the funds of the Corporation such reserve or reserves as
the directors  from time to time, in their  discretion,  think proper to provide
for  contingencies,  or to  equalize  dividends,  or to repair or  maintain  any
property of the  Corporation,  or for such other purposes as the directors shall
think beneficial to the Corporation, and the directors may modify or abolish any
such reserve in the manner in which it was created.

Section 3. Checks.  All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation
shall be signed by such  officer or officers or such other  person or persons as
the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.

Section 4. Fiscal  Year.  The fiscal year of the  Corporation  shall be fixed by
resolution of the Board of Directors.


Section 5. Seal. The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the
Corporation.  Said seal may be used by causing it or a  facsimile  thereof to be
impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.

Section 6.  Indemnification.  The  Corporation  shall  indemnify its  directors,
officers,  employees and agents to the fullest  extent  permitted by the General
Corporation Law of Delaware and the Certificate of the Incorporation.

Section 7.  Transactions  with  Directors  and  Officers.  No  contract or other
transaction  between the Corporation and any other  corporation and no other act
of the Corporation  shall, in the absence of fraud, be invalidated or in any way
affected  by the  fact  that  any  of  the  directors  of  the  Corporation  are
pecuniarily or otherwise interested in such contract,  transaction or other act,
or are  directors  or officers of such other  corporation.  Any  director of the
Corporation, individually, or any firm or corporation of which any such director
may be a  member,  may  be a  party  to,  or may  be  pecuniarily  or  otherwise
interested  in,  any  contract  or  transaction  of the  Corporation;  provided,
however,  that  the  fact  that  the  director,  individually,  or the  firm  or
corporation is so interested  shall be disclosed or shall have been known to the
Board of Directors or a majority of such members  thereof as shall be present at
any annual meeting or at any special  meeting,  called for that purpose,  of the
Board of Directors at which  action upon any  contract or  transaction  shall be
taken.  Any director of the  Corporation  who is so interested may be counted in
determining  the existence of a quorum at any such annual or special  meeting of
the Board of Directors which  authorizes  such contract or transaction,  any may
vote  thereat to  authorize  such  contract or  transaction  with like force and
effect as if he were not such director or officer of such other  corporation  or
not so interested. Every director of the Corporation is hereby relieved from any
disability which might otherwise prevent him from carrying out transactions with
or  contracting  with the  Corporation  for the  benefit of himself or any firm,
corporation,  trust or  organization in which or with which he may be in anywise
interested or connected.


Section 8. Amendments.  These Bylaws may be altered,  amended or repealed or new
Bylaws may be adopted by the  stockholders  or by the Board of  Directors at any
regular meeting of the  stockholders  or the Board of Directors,  at any special
meeting  of the  stockholders  or the  Board  of  Directors  if  notice  of such
alteration,  amendment,  repeal,  or adoption of new Bylaws be  contained in the
notice of such special meeting,  or by written consent of the Board of Directors
or the stockholders without a meeting.


Section 9. Table of Contents;  Headings. The Table of Contents and headings used
in these Bylaws have been inserted for  convenience  only and do not  constitute
matters to be construed in interpretation.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4.4
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>

                                                                 Exhibit 4.4
                                                                  REVISED 2/6/98


                    STOCK PLAN FOR EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS OF
                                LITTELFUSE, INC.


     1. Purpose.  Littelfuse,  Inc. (the  "Corporation")  desires to attract and
retain  Employees  and  directors  of  outstanding  talent.  The Stock  Plan for
Employees  and  Directors of  Littelfuse,  Inc.  (the "Plan")  affords  eligible
Employees and directors the opportunity to acquire proprietary  interests in the
Corporation  and thereby  encourages  their highest  levels of  performance  and
interest.


            2.    Scope and Duration.


            a. Awards under the Plan may be granted in the following forms:


                   (1) incentive stock options  ("incentive stock options"),  as
         provided  in  Section 422  of the  Internal  Revenue  Code of 1986,  as
         amended (the "Code"),  and non-qualified stock options  ("non-qualified
         options";  the term  "options"  includes  incentive  stock  options and
         non-qualified options);


                   (2) shares of Common  Stock of the  Corporation  (the "Common
         Stock") which are restricted as provided in paragraph 10.  ("restricted
         shares"); or


                   (3)  rights  to  acquire  shares of  Common  Stock  which are
         restricted  as  provided  in  paragraph 10.   ("units"  or  "restricted
         units").


Options may be accompanied by stock appreciation rights ("rights").


            b. The  maximum  aggregate  number of  shares of Common  Stock as to
which awards of options,  restricted  shares,  units, or rights may be made from
time to time under the Plan is 1,000,000 shares.  Shares issued pursuant to this
Plan may be in whole or in part,  as the Board of Directors  of the  Corporation
(the "Board of  Directors")  shall from time to time  determine,  authorized but
unissued  shares or issued  shares  reacquired  by the  Corporation.  If for any
reason any shares as to which an option has been granted  cease to be subject to
purchase  thereunder or any restricted  shares or restricted units are forfeited
to the Corporation,  or to the extent that any awards under the Plan denominated
in shares  or units  are paid or  settled  in cash or are  surrendered  upon the
exercise of an option,  then (unless the Plan shall have been  terminated)  such
shares  or  units,  and any  shares  surrendered  to the  Corporation  upon such
exercise, shall become available for subsequent awards under the Plan; provided,
however,  that shares  surrendered  by the  Corporation  upon the exercise of an
incentive  stock  option  and  shares  subject  to  an  incentive  stock  option
surrendered  upon the exercise of a right shall not be available for  subsequent
award of additional stock options under the Plan.


            c. No  incentive  stock  option  shall be  granted  hereunder  after
December 15, 2001.


            3.    Administration.


            a. The Plan shall be administered  by the Stock Option  Committee or
any successor  thereto of the Board of Directors of the  Corporation  or by such
other  committee  (the  "Committee")  as shall  be  determined  by the  Board of
Directors. The Committee shall consist of not less than two members of the Board
of  Directors,  each  of whom  shall  qualify  as a  odisinterested  persono  to
administer  the  Plan as  contemplated  by  Rulea16b-3,  as  amended,  or  other
applicable rules under  Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the "Exchange Act").


            b.  The  Committee   shall  have  plenary   authority  in  its  sole
discretion,  subject to and not inconsistent with the express provisions of this
Plan:


                   (1) to grant options,  to determine the purchase price of the
         Common  Stock  covered by each  option,  the term of each  option,  the
         persons  to whom,  and the time or times  at  which,  options  shall be
         granted and the number of shares to be covered by each option;


                   (2) to  designate  options  as  incentive  stock  options  or
         non-qualified   options  and  to  determine   which  options  shall  be
         accompanied by rights;


                   (3) to grant  rights and to determine  the purchase  price of
         the Common Stock covered by each right or related  option,  the term of
         each right or related option,  the Employees and Eligible Directors (as
         such terms are defined  below) to whom, and the time or times at which,
         rights or related  options shall be granted and the number of shares to
         be covered by each right or related option;


                   (4) to grant  restricted  shares and restricted  units and to
         determine   the  term  of  the   Restricted   Period  (as   defined  in
         paragrapha10.) and other conditions applicable to such shares or units,
         the  Employees  to whom,  and the time or  times at  which,  restricted
         shares or restricted units shall be granted and the number of shares or
         units to be covered by each grant;


                    (5)  to interpret the Plan;


                    (6)  to prescribe,  amend and rescind rules and  regulations
                         relating to the Plan;


                    (7)  to determine the terms and provisions of the option and
                         rights agreements (which need not be identical) and the
                         restricted share and restricted unit agreements  (which
                         need not be identical)  entered into in connection with
                         awards under the Plan;


and to make all other  determinations  deemed  necessary  or  advisable  for the
administration of the Plan.


         Without  limiting  the  foregoing,  the  Committee  shall have  plenary
authority in its sole  discretion,  subject to, and not  inconsistent  with, the
express provisions of the Plan, to:


                    (1)  select    Participants    (as   defined    below)   for
                         participation in the plan;


                    (2)  determine the timing, price, and amount of any grant or
                         award under the Plan to any Participant; and


                    (3)  either


                            (a) determine the form in which payment of any right
                  granted or awarded  under the Plan will be made  (i.e.,  cash,
                  securities, or any combination thereof), or


                            (b)  approve  the  election  of the  Participant  to
                  receive  cash in whole or in part in  settlement  of any right
                  granted or awarded under the Plan.


                           As used in the Plan,  the following  terms shall have
                  the following  meanings:  the term oLittelfuse  Officero shall
                  mean an  officer  (other  than an  assistant  officer)  of the
                  Corporation  or any of its  Subsidiaries  and any other person
                  who may be designated as any executive officer by the Board of
                  Directors of the  Corporation;  the term  oParticipanto  shall
                  mean an  Employee or Eligible  Director;  the term  oEmployeeo
                  shall mean a full-time,  non-union,  salaried  employee of the
                  Corporation  or any of its  Subsidiaries;  the term  oEligible
                  Directoro  shall  mean any  individual  who is a member of the
                  Board  of  Directors  of the  Corporation  who is not  then an
                  Employee or a beneficial owner, either directly or indirectly,
                  of more  than ten  percent  (10%) of the  Common  Stock of the
                  Corporation;  and  the  term  oSubsidiarieso  shall  mean  all
                  corporations  in  which  the  Corporation  owns,  directly  or
                  indirectly,  more than fifty percent (50%) of the total voting
                  power of all classes of stock.


                            (c) The Committee may delegate to one or more of its
                  members or to one or more agents such administrative duties as
                  it may deem advisable, and the Committee or any person to whom
                  it has  delegated  duties as aforesaid  may employ one or more
                  persons to render  advice with  respect to any  responsibility
                  the  Committee  or  such  person  may  have  under  the  Plan;
                  provided,  that the Committee may not delegate any duties to a
                  member of the Board of  Directors  who, if elected to serve on
                  the Committee,  would not qualify as a odisinterested  persono
                  to  administer  the Plan as  contemplated  by  Rulea16b-3,  as
                  amended, or other applicable rules under the Exchange Act. The
                  Committee may employ attorneys,  consultants,  accountants, or
                  other  persons,  and  the  Committee,  the  Corporation,   its
                  Subsidiaries,  and their  respective  officers  and  directors
                  shall  be  entitled  to rely  upon  the  advice,  opinions  or
                  valuations  of any such  persons.  All  actions  taken and all
                  interpretations  and  determinations  made by the Committee in
                  good faith shall be final and binding  upon all  Participants,
                  the Corporation,  its  Subsidiaries,  and all other interested
                  persons.  No  member  or  agent  of  the  Committee  shall  be
                  personally   liable   for  any   action,   determination,   or
                  interpretation  made in good faith with respect to the Plan or
                  awards  made  hereunder,  and all  members  and  agents of the
                  Committee  shall  be fully  protected  by the  Corporation  in
                  respect of any such action, determination, or interpretation.


            4.    Eligibility; Factors to be Considered in Making Awards.


            a. Persons  eligible to  participate  in this Plan shall include all
Employees of the Corporation and all Eligible Directors; provided, however, that
Eligible  Directors shall only be eligible to receive grants of options pursuant
to subparagrapha4.e.


            b. In determining  the Employees to whom awards shall be granted and
the number of shares or units to be covered by each award,  the Committee  shall
take into account the nature of the EmployeeAEs  duties,  his or her present and
potential  contributions  to  the  success  of  the  Corporation  or  any of its
Subsidiaries and such other factors as it shall deem relevant in connection with
accomplishing the purposes of the Plan.


            c. Awards may be granted singly,  in  combination,  or in tandem and
may be  made in  combination  or in  tandem  with or in  replacement  of,  or as
alternatives  to, awards or grants under any other  employee plan  maintained by
the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries.  An award made in the form of a unit
or a right may provide, in the discretion of the Committee, for


                   (1) the  crediting to the account of, or the current  payment
         to, each  Employee who has such an award of an amount equal to the cash
         dividends and stock dividends paid by the Corporation upon one share of
         Common Stock for each  restricted unit or share of Common Stock subject
         to a right included in such award (oDividend Equivalentso), or


                   (2) the deemed reinvestment of such Dividend  Equivalents and
         stock  dividends in shares of Common Stock,  which deemed  reinvestment
         shall  be  deemed  to be made in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of
         paragrapha10.,  and credited to the  EmployeeAEs  account  (oAdditional
         Deemed Shareso).


Such  Additional  Deemed  Shares  shall  be  subject  to the  same  restrictions
(including but not limited to provisions regarding forfeitures)  applicable with
respect to the unit or right with respect to which such credit is made. Dividend
Equivalents  not deemed  reinvested as stock  dividends  shall not be subject to
forfeiture, and may bear amounts equivalent to interest or cash dividends as the
Committee may determine.


            d. The Committee,  in its sole discretion,  may grant to an Employee
who has  been  granted  an  award  under  the Plan or any  other  employee  plan
maintained  by the  Corporation  or any of its  Subsidiaries,  or any  successor
thereto,  in exchange for the surrender and  cancellation  of such award,  a new
award in the same or a different  form and  containing  such  terms,  including,
without limitation, a price which is different (either higher or lower) than any
price provided in the award so surrendered  and cancelled,  as the Committee may
deem appropriate.


            e.  Each  Eligible   Director  shall  be  automatically   granted  a
non-qualified  option to purchase  4,000  shares of Common  Stock,  which option
shall be granted on the earlier of the January, 1992 meeting of the Committee or
the first  meeting of the  Committee  following  the date on which the  Eligible
Director  is  first  elected  as a  member  of the  Board  of  Directors  of the
Corporation. The purchase price for the Common Stock covered by each such option
shall be the fair market  value (as defined  below) of such Common  Stock on the
date the option is  granted,  payable at the time and in the manner  provided in
subparagrapha5.b.  below.  Each option granted to an Eligible  Director shall be
exercisable as follows: with respect to twenty-percent (20%) of the Common Stock
covered  thereby  during  the ten  (10)  year  period  commencing  one (1)  year
following the date of grant;  with respect to an additional twenty percent (20%)
of the Common Stock covered  thereby during the ten (10) year period  commencing
two (2) years following the date of grant;  with respect to an additional twenty
percent  (20%) of the  Common  Stock  covered  thereby  during the ten (10) year
period  commencing three (3) years following the date of grant;  with respect to
an additional  twenty  percent (20%) of the Common Stock covered  thereby during
the ten (10) year period  commencing four (4) years following the date of grant;
and with  respect to the  remaining  twenty  percent  (20%) of the Common  Stock
covered  thereby  during  the ten (10)  year  period  commencing  five (5) years
following the date of grant.  The  foregoing  formula can only be amended to the
extent permitted by Rulea16b-3, as amended, under the Exchange Act.


            5.    Option Price.


            a. The  purchase  price of the Common  Stock  covered by each option
awarded to an Employee shall be determined by the Committee;  provided, however,
that in the case of incentive  stock  options,  the purchase  price shall not be
less  than 100% of the fair  market  value of the  Common  Stock on the date the
option is granted. Fair market value shall mean,


                   (1)  if  the  Common  Stock  is  duly  listed  on a  national
         securities  exchange  or on  the  National  Association  of  Securities
         Dealers Automatic  Quotation  System/National  Market System ("NASDAQ")
         ("Duly Listed"),  the closing price of the Common Stock for the date on
         which the option is granted, or, if there are no sales on such date, on
         the next preceding day on which there were sales, or


                   (2) if the Common Stock is not Duly  Listed,  the fair market
         value of the Common  Stock for the date on which the option is granted,
         as  determined  by the  Committee  in good  faith.  Such price shall be
         subject to adjustment as provided in paragrapha13.


The price so determined shall also be applicable in connection with the exercise
of any related right.


            b. The  purchase  price of the  shares  as to  which  an  option  is
exercised shall be paid in full at the time of exercise;  payment may be made in
cash,  which  may be  paid  by  check  or  other  instrument  acceptable  to the
Corporation,  or, if permitted by the Committee,  in shares of the Common Stock,
valued at the closing price of the Common Stock as reported on either a national
securities  exchange  or NASDAQ  for the date of  exercise,  or if there were no
sales on such date, on the next  preceding day on which there were sales (or, if
the Common Stock is not Duly  Listed,  the fair market value of the Common Stock
on the date of exercise,  as determined by the Committee in good faith),  or, if
permitted by the  Committee  and subject to such terms and  conditions as it may
determine,  by surrender of outstanding awards under the Plan. In addition,  the
Participant shall pay any amount necessary to satisfy applicable federal, state,
or local tax  requirements  promptly  upon  notification  of the amount due. The
Committee may permit such amount to be paid in shares of Common Stock previously
owned by the  Participant,  or a portion  of the  shares of  Common  Stock  that
otherwise would be distributed to such  Participant upon exercise of the option,
or a combination of cash and shares of such Common Stock.


            6. Term of Options.  The term of each incentive stock option granted
under the Plan shall be such period of time as the  Committee  shall  determine,
but not  more  than  ten  years  from  the date of  grant,  subject  to  earlier
termination as provided in paragraphsa11. and 12. The term of each non-qualified
option  granted under the Plan to Employees  shall be such period of time as the
Committee  shall  determine,  subject  to earlier  termination  as  provided  in
paragraphs 11. and 12.


            7.    Exercise of Options.


            a. Each option shall become exercisable, in whole or in part, as the
Committee shall determine;  provided,  however,  that the Committee may also, in
its discretion,  accelerate the exercisability of any option in whole or in part
at any time.


            b.  Subject  to the  provisions  of the  Plan and  unless  otherwise
provided in the option agreement,  an option granted under the Plan shall become
exercisable  in full  at the  earliest  of the  ParticipantAEs  death,  Eligible
Retirement  (as defined  below),  Total  Disability,  or a Change in Control (as
defined  in  paragraph 12.).  For  purposes  of this  Plan,  the term  "Eligible
Retirement"  shall mean (1) the date upon which an Employee,  having attained an
age of not less than  sixty-two,  terminates his employment with the Corporation
and its  Subsidiaries,  provided  that such  Employee  has been  employed by the
Corporation  or  any  of  its  Subsidiaries  or any  corporation  of  which  the
Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries is the successor for a period of not less
than five (5) years  prior to such  termination,  or (2) the date upon  which an
Eligible  Director,  having  attained  the  age  of  not  less  than  sixty-two,
terminates his service as a director of the Corporation.


            c. An  option  may be  exercised,  at any time or from  time to time
(subject,  in the case of an incentive stock option, to such restrictions as may
be imposed by the Code), as to any or all full shares as to which the option has
become exercisable;  provided,  however,  that an option may not be exercised at
any one time as to less than 100  shares or less than the number of shares as to
which the option is then exercisable, if that number is less than 100 shares.


            d. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 11.  and 12., in the case
of incentive  stock  options,  no option may be exercised at any time unless the
holder thereof is then an Employee.


            e. Upon the exercise of an option or portion  thereof in  accordance
with the Plan,  the option  agreement and such rules and  regulations  as may be
established  by the  Committee,  the holder  thereof  shall have the rights of a
shareholder with respect to the shares issued as a result of such exercise.


            8.    Award and Exercise of Rights.


            a. A right may be awarded by the  Committee in  connection  with any
option  granted  under the Plan,  either at the time the  option is  granted  or
thereafter at any time prior to the exercise,  termination  or expiration of the
option ("tandem right"), or separately ("freestanding right"). Each tandem right
shall be subject  to the same terms and  conditions  as the  related  option and
shall be  exercisable  only to the extent the  option is  exercisable.  No right
shall be exercisable for cash by a Littelfuse Officer within six (6) months from
the date the right is  awarded  (and  then,  as to a tandem  right,  only to the
extent the related option is exercisable) or, if the exercise price of the right
is not fixed on the date of the award,  within six (6) months from the date when
the  exercise  price is so  fixed,  and in any  case  only  when the  Littelfuse
OfficerAEs  election  to  receive  cash in full or partial  satisfaction  of the
right, as well as the Littelfuse  Officer's  exercise of the right for cash, is
made during a Quarterly Window Period (as defined below); provided, that a right
may be  exercised by a  Littelfuse  Officer for cash outside a Quarterly  Window
Period if the date of exercise is automatic  or has been fixed in advance  under
the Plan and is outside the Littelfuse  Officer's control.  The term "Quarterly
Window  Period"  shall  mean the  period  beginning  on the third  business  day
following the date of release of each of the Corporation's quarterly and annual
summary  statements of sales and earnings and ending on the twelfth business day
following  such release;  and the date of any such release shall be deemed to be
the date it either:


                   (1)     appears on a wire service,


                   (2)     appears on a financial news service,


                   (3)     appears in a newspaper of general circulation, or


                   (4) is otherwise  made publicly  available,  for example,  by
         press releases to a wire service, financial news service, or newspapers
         or general circulation.


            b. A right shall  entitle the Employee  upon  exercise in accordance
with  its  terms  (subject,  in the  case of a tandem  right,  to the  surrender
unexercised of the related  option or any portion or portions  thereof which the
Employee from time to time determines to surrender for this purpose) to receive,
subject to the  provisions  of the Plan and such rules and  regulations  as from
time to time may be established by the Committee,  a payment having an aggregate
value equal to the product of


                   (1)     the excess of


                    (a)  the fair market value on the exercise date of one share
                         of Common Stock over


                    (b)  the exercise  price per share,  in the case of a tandem
                         right, or the price per share specified in the terms of
                         the  right,  in  the  case  of  a  freestanding  right,
                         multiplied by


                   (2) the  number of  shares  with  respect  to which the right
shall have been exercised.


The payment may be made only in cash, subject to subparagrapha8.a. hereof.


            c. The  exercise  price per share  specified  in a right shall be as
determined  by the  Committee,  provided  that,  in the case of a  tandem  right
accompanying  an incentive  stock option,  the exercise  price shall be not less
than fair market value of the Common Stock subject to such option on the date of
grant.


            d. If upon the  exercise  of a right the  Employee  is to  receive a
portion of the payment in shares of Common Stock,  the number of shares shall be
determined  by dividing  such portion by the fair market value of a share on the
exercise date. The number of shares received may not exceed the number of shares
covered by any option or portion thereof surrendered.  Cash will be paid in lieu
of any fractional share.


            e. No payment will be required  from an Employee  upon exercise of a
right, except that any amount necessary to satisfy applicable federal, state, or
local tax  requirements  shall be withheld or paid promptly by the Employee upon
notification  of the amount due and prior to or  concurrently  with  delivery of
cash or a certificate  representing shares. The Committee may permit such amount
to be paid in shares of Common  Stock  previously  owned by the  Employee,  or a
portion of the shares of Common Stock that  otherwise  would be  distributed  to
such Employee upon exercise of the right, or a combination of cash and shares of
such Common Stock.


            f. The fair market value of a share shall mean the closing  price of
the Common Stock as reported on either a national  securities exchange or NASDAQ
for the date of  exercise,  or if there are no sales on such  date,  on the next
preceding day on which there were sales; provided,  however, that in the case of
rights that relate to an incentive stock option, the Committee may prescribe, by
rules of general  application,  such other  measure of fair market  value as the
Committee  may in its  discretion  determine  but not in excess  of the  maximum
amount  that  would  be  permissible  under  Section 422  of  the  Code  without
disqualifying such option under Section 422.


            g. Upon exercise of a tandem right,  the number of shares subject to
exercise under the related option shall  automatically  be reduced by the number
of shares represented by the option or portion thereof surrendered.


            h. A  right  related  to an  incentive  stock  option  may  only  be
exercised  if the fair market  value of a share of Common  Stock on the exercise
date exceeds the option price.


                    9.   Non-Transferability  of  Options,  Rights,  and  Units;
                         Holding  Periods for  Littelfuse  Officers and Eligible
                         Directors.


            a.  Options,  rights,  and units granted under the Plan shall not be
transferable  by the  grantee  thereof  otherwise  than by  will or the  laws of
descent and distribution; provided, however, that


                    (1)  the designation of a beneficiary by a Participant shall
                         not constitute a transfer, and


                    (2)  options and rights may be exercised during the lifetime
                         of the  Participant  only by the Participant or, unless
                         such  exercise   would   disqualify  an  option  as  an
                         incentive stock option, by the ParticipantAEs  guardian
                         or legal representative.


            b.   Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary,


                   (1)  any  shares  of  Common  Stock  awarded  hereunder  to a
         Littelfuse  Officer may not be  transferred or disposed of for at least
         six (6) months from the date of award thereof,


                   (2)  any  option,  right,  or  unit  awarded  hereunder  to a
         Littelfuse Officer or Eligible Director,  or the shares of Common Stock
         into which any such option,  right or unit is  exercised or  converted,
         may not be  transferred  or  disposed  of for at least  six (6)  months
         following the date of acquisition by the Littelfuse Officer or Eligible
         Director of such option, right, or unit, and


                   (3) the  Committee  shall take no action  whose  effect would
         cause a Littelfuse  Officer or Eligible  Director to be in violation of
         clausea(1) or (2) above.


            c.  Notwithstanding the foregoing and anything else contained in the
Plan to the  contrary,  up to 25% of the number of  non-qualified  options (said
percentage  to be  calculated  using as the  nominator  the sum of the amountaof
outstanding and  unexercised  non-qualified  options  proposed to be transferred
plus  the  number  of  non-qualified  options  previously  transferred  by  said
Participant  within the  previous  four years and using as the  denominator  the
aggregate number of non-qualified options granted to said Participant within the
previous  four  years)  may be  transferred  (but  only  on a gift  basis)  by a
Participant  to an immediate  family member of the  Participant or a trust which
has as  beneficiaries  at the  time of  transfer  only  the  Participant  and/or
immediate family members of the Participant. As used herein, the term oimmediate
family  memberso  shall  mean the  spouse of the  Participant,  children  of the
Participant  and  their  spouses,  grandchildren  of the  Participant  and their
spouses  and   great-grandchildren   of  the   Participant   and  their  spouses
(hereinafter  referred  to  as  a  oPermitted   Transfereeo).   All  transferred
non-qualified  options shall remain subject to all of the provisions of the Plan
and  any  agreement  between  the  Participant  and the  Corporation  pertaining
thereto, including,  without limitation, all vesting, termination and forfeiture
provisions,  and the rights and  obligations  of a transferee  with respect to a
non-qualified  option  transferred  thereto shall be determined  pursuant to the
provisions of the Plan and any such agreement as if the Participant remained the
holder thereof. In no event shall any transferee of a transferred  non-qualified
option be entitled to transfer such non-qualified  option except pursuant to the
laws of descent and  distribution.  Any transfer of  non-qualified  options made
pursuant to this  subsection  (c) must be made  pursuant to legal  documentation
provided by the Corporation,  which legal  documentation  may contain such terms
and conditions as the Corporation,  in its discretion,  deems  appropriate,  and
shall be subject to  verification  by the  Corporation or its legal counsel that
the  proposed  transferee  is  a  Permitted   Transferee.   Notwithstanding  the
foregoing,  the Committee, in its absolute discretion,  may restrict or deny the
transfer of non-qualified options with respect to one or more Participants.  The
provisions of this  subsection  (c) shall be deemed to override and control over
any  provisions  in  any  Non-Qualified   Stock  Option  Agreement  between  the
Corporation  and a  Participant  which is dated before  January 1, 1998,  to the
extent  such  provisions  would not allow a transfer  of  non-qualified  options
pursuant to the provisions of this subsection (c).


           10.    Award and Delivery of Restricted Shares or Restricted Units.


            a. At the time an award of restricted  shares or restricted units is
made, the Committee shall establish a period of time (the  oRestricted  Periodo)
applicable to such award.  Each award of restricted  shares or restricted  units
may  have a  different  Restricted  Period.  The  Committee  may,  in  its  sole
discretion,  at the  time  an  award  is  made,  prescribe  conditions  for  the
incremental lapse of restrictions during the Restricted Period and for the lapse
or termination of  restrictions  upon the  satisfaction  of other  conditions in
addition to or other than the expiration of the  Restricted  Period with respect
to all or any portion of the restricted shares or restricted  units.  Subject to
paragrapha9.,  the  Committee  may  also,  in its sole  discretion  shorten,  or
terminate  the  Restricted  Period,  or waive  any  conditions  for the lapse or
termination of restrictions with respect to all or any portion of the restricted
shares or  restricted  units.  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  but  subject  to
paragrapha9.,  all  restrictions  shall lapse or  terminate  with respect to all
restricted  shares  or  restricted  units  upon  the  earliest  to  occur  of an
EmployeeAEs  Eligible  Retirement,   a  Change  in  Control,   death,  or  Total
Disability.


            b.  (1) Unless  such  shares  are  issued as  uncertificated  shares
pursuant to subparagraph 10.b.(2)(a) below, a stock certificate representing the
number of restricted  shares  granted to an Employee  shall be registered in the
Employee's  name but shall be held in  custody by the  Corporation  or an agent
therefor for the  Employee's  account.  The Employee  shall  generally have the
rights and privileges of a shareholder as to such restricted  shares,  including
the right to vote such restricted shares, except that, subject to the provisions
of paragraphs 11. and 12., the following restrictions shall apply:


                   (a) the  Employee  shall not be  entitled  to delivery of the
         certificate  until the  expiration  or  termination  of the  Restricted
         Period and the satisfaction of any other  conditions  prescribed by the
         Committee;


                   (b) none of the restricted  shares may be sold,  transferred,
         assigned,  pledged,  or otherwise  encumbered or disposed of during the
         Restricted  Period and until the  satisfaction of any other  conditions
         prescribed by the Committee; and


                   (c) all of the  restricted  shares shall be forfeited and all
         rights  of the  Employee  to such  restricted  shares  shall  terminate
         without further  obligation on the part of the  Corporation  unless the
         Employee has remained an Employee  until the  expiration or termination
         of the Restricted  Period and the  satisfaction of any other conditions
         prescribed by the Committee  applicable to such restricted  shares.  At
         the discretion of the Committee,


                            (i) cash and stock  dividends  with  respect  to the
                  restricted  shares may be either currently paid or withheld by
                  the Corporation for the Employee's  account, and interest may
                  be paid on the amount of cash dividends withheld at a rate and
                  subject to such terms as determined by the Committee, or


                           (ii)  the   Committee   may  require  that  all  cash
                  dividends be applied to the purchase of  additional  shares of
                  Common Stock,  and such  purchased  shares,  together with any
                  stock  dividends  related  to  such  restricted  shares  (such
                  purchased shares and stock dividends are hereafter referred to
                  as  "Additional   Restricted  Shares")  shall  be  treated  as
                  Additional Shares, subject to forfeiture on the same terms and
                  conditions as the original grant of the  restricted  shares to
                  the Employee.


               (2)  The purchase of any such Additional  Restricted Shares shall
                    be made either


                   (a)  through  a  dividend   reinvestment  plan  that  may  be
         established by the  Corporation  which  satisfies the  requirements  of
         Rule 16b-2  under the  Exchange  Act,  in which event the price of such
         shares so purchased  through the  reinvestment of dividends shall be as
         determined in accordance  with the provisions of that plan and no stock
         certificate  representing such Additional Restricted Shares shall be in
         the EmployeeAEs name, or


                   (b) in  accordance  with  such  alternative  procedure  as is
         determined by the Committee in which event the price of such  purchased
         shares shall be


                            (i) if the Common Stock is Duly Listed,  the closing
                  price of the  Common  Stock as  reported  on either a national
                  securities  exchange  or  NASDAQ  for the date on  which  such
                  purchase is made, or if there were no sales on such date,  the
                  next preceding day on which there were sales, or


                           (ii) if the Common Stock is not Duly Listed, the fair
                  market  value of the  Common  Stock for the date on which such
                  purchase  is made,  as  determined  by the  Committee  in good
                  faith.  In the event  that the  Committee  shall  not  require
                  reinvestment,  cash,  or stock  dividends  so  withheld by the
                  Committee  shall  not  be  subject  to  forfeiture.  Upon  the
                  forfeiture of any restricted  shares (including any Additional
                  Restricted Shares), such forfeited shares shall be transferred
                  to the Corporation without further action by the Employee. The
                  Employee  shall have the same  rights and  privileges,  and be
                  subject to the same  restrictions,  with respect to any shares
                  received pursuant to paragraph 13.


            c. Upon the expiration or  termination of the Restricted  Period and
the satisfaction of any other conditions  prescribed by the Committee or at such
earlier  time as  provided  for in  paragraphs 11.  and  12.,  the  restrictions
applicable to the restricted shares  (including  Additional  Restricted  Shares)
shall  lapse  and a  stock  certificate  for the  number  of  restricted  shares
(including  any  Additional   Restricted  Shares)  with  respect  to  which  the
restrictions  have lapsed  shall be  delivered,  free of all such  restrictions,
except  any that may be  imposed  by law,  to the  Employee  or the  Employee's
beneficiary or estate, as the case may be. The Corporation shall not be required
to deliver any  fractional  share of Common Stock but will pay, in lieu thereof,
the fair market value (determined as of the date the restrictions lapse) of such
fractional  share to the Employee or the Employee's  beneficiary or estate,  as
the case may be. No payment will be required from the Employee upon the issuance
or delivery  of any  restricted  shares,  except  that any amount  necessary  to
satisfy applicable  federal,  state, or local tax requirements shall be withheld
or  paid  promptly  upon  notification  of  the  amount  due  and  prior  to  or
concurrently  with the issuance or delivery of a certificate  representing  such
shares.  The  Committee  may permit  such  amount to be paid in shares of Common
Stock  previously  owned by the  Employee,  or a portion of the shares of Common
Stock that otherwise would be distributed to such Employee upon the lapse of the
restrictions  applicable to the restricted  shares, or a combination of cash and
shares of such Common Stock.


            d. In the case of an award of restricted  units, no shares of Common
Stock shall be issued at the time the award is made, and the  Corporation  shall
not be required to set aside a fund for the payment of any such award.


            e. (1) Upon the expiration or  termination of the Restricted  Period
and the satisfaction of any other  conditions  prescribed by the Committee or at
such earlier time as provided in  paragraphs 11 and 12., the Corporation shall
deliver to the Employee or the  Employee's  beneficiary or estate,  as the case
may be, one share of Common Stock for each restricted unit with respect to which
the restrictions have lapsed ("vested unit").


           (2) In  addition,  if the  Committee  has  not  required  the  deemed
reinvestment of such Dividend Equivalents pursuant to paragraph 4., at such time
the  Corporation  shall  deliver  to the  Employee  cash  equal to any  Dividend
Equivalents  or stock  dividends  credited with respect to each such vested unit
and, to the extent determined by the Committee, the interest thereupon. However,
if the Committee has required such deemed  reinvestment  in connection with such
restricted  unit, in addition to the stock  represented by such vested unit, the
Corporation shall deliver the number of Additional Deemed Shares credited to the
Employee with respect to such vested unit.


           (3)  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  the Committee may, in its sole
discretion,  elect to pay cash or part  cash  and part  Common  Stock in lieu of
delivering only Common Stock for the vested units and related  Additional Deemed
Shares. If a cash payment is made in lieu of delivering Common Stock, the amount
of such cash payment shall be equal to


                   (a) if the Common Stock is Duly Listed,  the closing price of
         the Common Stock as reported on either a national  securities  exchange
         or  NASDAQ  for the date on which the  Restricted  Period  lapsed  with
         respect to such vested unit and related  Additional  Deemed Shares (the
         oLapse  Dateo)  or,  if there  are no sales on such  date,  on the next
         preceding day on which there were sales, or


                   (b) if the Common Stock is not Duly  Listed,  the fair market
         value of the Common  Stock for the Lapse  Date,  as  determined  by the
         Committee in good faith.


            f. No payment will be required  from the Employee  upon the award of
any restricted  units,  the crediting or payment of any Dividend  Equivalents or
Additional Deemed Shares, or the delivery of Common Stock or the payment of cash
in  respect  of vested  units,  except  that any  amount  necessary  to  satisfy
applicable  federal,  state, or local tax requirements shall be withheld or paid
promptly  upon  notification  of the amount due. The  Committee  may permit such
amount to be paid in shares of Common Stock previously owned by the Employee, or
a portion of the shares of Common Stock that  otherwise  would be distributed to
such  Employee in respect of vested units and  Additional  Deemed  Shares,  or a
combination of cash and shares of such Common Stock.


            g. In addition,  the Committee shall have the right, in its absolute
discretion,  upon the vesting of any  restricted  shares  (including  Additional
Restricted Shares) and restricted units (including  Additional Deemed Shares) to
award cash  compensation  to the Employee for the purpose of aiding the Employee
in the payment of any and all federal,  state, and local income taxes payable as
a result of such  vesting,  if the  performance  of the  Corporation  during the
Restricted  Period meets such criteria as then or theretofore  determined by the
Committee.


           11.  Termination  of  Employment  or  Service.  In the event that the
employment  of an Employee or the service as a director of an Eligible  Director
to whom an option or right has been granted  under the Plan shall be  terminated
for any reason  other than as set forth in  paragrapha12.,  such option or right
may, subject to the provisions of the Plan, be exercised (but only to the extent
that  the  Employee  or an  Eligible  Director  was  entitled  to  do so at  the
termination of his  employment or service as a director,  as the case may be) at
any time within  three (3) months after such  termination,  but in no case later
than the date on which the option or right terminates.


         Unless  otherwise  determined by the Committee,  if an Employee to whom
restricted  shares  or  restricted  units  have  been  granted  ceases  to be an
Employee, for any reason other than as set forth in paragrapha12.,  prior to the
end of the  Restricted  Period  and the  satisfaction  of any  other  conditions
prescribed  by  the  Committee,  the  Employee  shall  immediately  forfeit  all
restricted  shares and restricted  units,  including all  Additional  Restricted
Shares or Additional Deemed Shares related thereto.


         Any option,  right,  restricted share or restricted unit agreement,  or
any rules and  regulations  relating to the Plan, may contain such provisions as
the Committee  shall  approve with  reference to the  determination  of the date
employment  terminates  and the effect of leaves of absence.  Any such rules and
regulations  with reference to any option agreement shall be consistent with the
provisions  of the Code and any  applicable  rules and  regulations  thereunder.
Nothing in the Plan or in any award  granted  pursuant to the Plan shall  confer
upon any  Participant  any right to  continue  in the  employ or  service of the
Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries or interfere in any way with the right of
the  Corporation or its  Subsidiaries to terminate such employment or service at
any time.


           12. Eligible  Retirement,  Death, or Total  Disability of Employee or
Eligible  Director,  Change in Control.  If any Employee or Eligible Director to
whom an option,  right,  restricted  share,  or restricted unit has been granted
under the Plan  shall die or suffer a Total  Disability  while  employed  by the
Corporation or in the service of the Corporation as a director,  if any Employee
terminates his employment or any Eligible  Director  terminates his service as a
director  pursuant to an Eligible  Retirement,  or if a Change in Control should
occur,  such  option or right may be  exercised  as set  forth  herein,  or such
restricted  shares or restricted  unit shall be deemed to be vested,  whether or
not the Participant was otherwise  entitled at such time to exercise such option
or  right,  or be  treated  as  vested  in such  share or unit.  Subject  to the
restrictions  otherwise  set forth in the Plan,  such  option or right  shall be
exercisable by the Participant,  a legatee or legatees of the Participant  under
the Participant's last will, or by the Participant's personal  representatives
or distributees, whichever is applicable, at the earlier of


                    a.   the date on which  the  option or right  terminates  in
                         accordance with the term of grant, or


                    b.   any time  prior to the  expiration  of three (3) months
                         after   the  date  of  such   ParticipantAEs   Eligible
                         Retirement, his termination due to total disability, or
                         the   occurrence  of  a  Change  in  Control,   or,  if
                         applicable,  within  one  year of  such  ParticipantAEs
                         death.


For  purposes  of this  paragraph 12.,  "Total  Disability"  is  defined  as the
permanent  inability of a Participant,  as a result of accident or sickness,  to
perform  any and every duty  pertaining  to such  Participant's  occupation  or
employment for which the  Participant is suited by reason of the  Participant's
previous training, education, and experience.


         A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred upon


                    a.  a   business   combination,   including   a  merger   or
         consolidation,   of  the  Corporation  and  the   shareholders  of  the
         Corporation  prior to the combination do not continue to own,  directly
         or indirectly,  more than fifty-one  percent (51%) of the equity of the
         combined entity;


                    b. a sale,  transfer,  or other  disposition  in one or more
         transactions  (other than in  transactions  in the  ordinary  course of
         business  or in the  nature of a  financing)  of the  assets or earning
         power  aggregating more than forty-five  percent (45%) of the assets or
         operating  revenues of the  Corporation  to any person or affiliated or
         associated  group of persons (as defined by  Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
         Act in effect as of the date hereof);


                    c.     the liquidation of the Corporation;


                    d. one or more transactions  which result in the acquisition
         by  any  person  or  associated   group  of  persons  (other  than  the
         Corporation,   any  employee  benefit  plan  whose   beneficiaries  are
         Employees of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries, or TCW Special
         Credits  or any of its  affiliates)  of the  beneficial  ownership  (as
         defined in  Rule 13d-3  of the  Exchange  Act, in effect as of the date
         hereof)  of  forty  percent  (40%) or more of the  Common  Stock of the
         Corporation, securities representing forty percent (40%) or more of the
         combined voting power of the voting securities of the Corporation which
         affiliated  persons  owned less than forty  percent (40%) prior to such
         transaction or transactions; or


                    e. the election or  appointment,  within a twelve (12) month
         period,  of any person or  affiliated or  associated  group,  or its or
         their nominees, to the Board of Directors of the Corporation, such that
         such  persons or  nominees,  when  elected or  appointed,  constitute a
         majority  of the  Board  of  Directors  of the  Corporation  and  whose
         appointment or election was not approved by a majority of those persons
         who were directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or
         appointment was made at the request of an Acquiring Person.


         An  "Acquiring  Person" is any person who, or which,  together with all
affiliates  or  associates  of such person,  is the  beneficial  owner of twenty
percent (20%) or more of the Common Stock of the Corporation  then  outstanding,
except that an Acquiring Person does not include the Corporation or any employee
benefit plan of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries or any person holding
Common Stock of the Corporation for or pursuant to such plan. For the purpose of
determining who is an Acquiring Person, the percentage of the outstanding shares
of the Common Stock of which a person is a beneficial  owner shall be calculated
in accordance with Rule 13d-e of the Exchange Act.


           13. Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization,  etc. Notwithstanding
any other  provision of the Plan,  the Committee may at any time make or provide
for such  adjustments  to the Plan, to the number and class of shares  available
thereunder or to any outstanding options, restricted shares, or restricted units
as it shall deem  appropriate  to prevent  dilution  or  enlargement  of rights,
including  adjustments in the event of  distributions to holders of Common Stock
other than a normal cash dividend,  changes in the  outstanding  Common Stock by
reason   of   stock   dividends,    split-ups,    recapitalizations,    mergers,
consolidations,    combinations,    or   exchanges   of   shares,   separations,
reorganizations,  liquidations,  and the  like.  In the  event  of any  offer to
holders of Common Stock  generally  relating to the acquisition of their shares,
the  Committee  may make such  adjustment  as it deems  equitable  in respect of
outstanding options,  rights, and restricted units including in the CommitteeAEs
discretion revision of outstanding options, rights, and restricted units so that
they may be  exercisable  for or  payable  in the  consideration  payable in the
acquisition  transaction.  Any  such  determination  by the  Committee  shall be
conclusive.  No  adjustment  shall be made in the minimum  number of shares with
respect to which an option may be exercised at any time. Any  fractional  shares
resulting  from  such  adjustments  to  options,   rights,  limited  rights,  or
restricted units shall be eliminated.


           14.  Effective  Date.  The Plan as  theretofore  amended shall become
effective as of Decembera16,  1991,  provided that the Plan shall be approved by
the Corporation's  stockholders on or before  December 15,  1992. The Committee
may, in its  discretion,  grant awards under the Plan, the grant,  exercise,  or
payment of which  shall be  expressly  subject to the  conditions  that,  to the
extent required at the time of grant, exercise, or payment,


                    a.   the shares of Common Stock covered by such awards shall
                         be Duly Listed, upon official notice of issuance, and


                    b.   if the Corporation  deems it necessary or desirable,  a
                         Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933
                         with respect to such shares shall be effective.


           15.  Termination  and  Amendment.  The  Board  of  Directors  of  the
Corporation may suspend, terminate,  modify, or amend the Plan, provided that if
any such amendment requires  shareholder approval to meet the requirement of the
then applicable  rules under  Section 16(b)  of the Exchange Act, such amendment
shall be subject to the approval of the Corporation's stockholders. If the Plan
is terminated,  the terms of the Plan shall,  notwithstanding  such termination,
continue to apply to awards granted prior to such termination.  In addition,  no
suspension, termination, modification, or amendment of the Plan may, without the
consent of the Employee or Eligible  Director to whom an award shall theretofore
have been  granted,  adversely  affect the rights of such  Employee  or Eligible
Director under such award.


           16. Written  Agreements.  Each award of options,  rights,  restricted
shares, or restricted units shall be evidenced by a written agreement,  executed
by the Participant and the Corporation,  which shall contain such  restrictions,
terms and conditions as the Committee may require.


           17. Effect on Other Stock Plans.  The adoption of the Plan shall have
no effect on awards made, or to be made,  pursuant to other stock plans covering
Employees or Eligible Directors of the Corporation or any successors thereto.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4.10
<SEQUENCE>7
<TEXT>


                                                            Exhibit 4.10





                                 FIRST AMENDMENT
                                       TO
                        LITTELFUSE RIGHTS PLAN AGREEMENT


         THIS  FIRST  AMENDMENT  is made and  entered  into as of the 1st day of
August,   1996,  by  and  between  LITTELFUSE,   INC.,  a  Delaware  corporation
(hereinafter referred to as the "Company"), and LASALLE NATIONAL BANK, as Rights
Agent (hereinafter referred to as the "Rights Agent");

                              W I T N E S S E T H:


         WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent have heretofore executed that
certain  Littelfuse  Rights  Plan  Agreement  dated  as  of  December  15,  1995
(hereinafter referred to as the "Rights Plan"); and


         WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent wish to amend the Rights Plan
in certain respects, all in accordance with the terms and provisions hereof;


         NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the premises and other good and
valuable  consideration,  the  receipt  and  sufficiency  of  which  are  hereby
acknowledged and confessed, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


         1. The definition of "Acquiring Person" contained in the Rights Plan is
hereby amended by adding the following language to the end of the first sentence
of Section 1(a) of the Rights Plan:


                  ; provided,  however,  that for purposes of  calculating  said
                  15%, there shall be included in the number of Common Shares of
                  the Company then  outstanding  the number of Common  Shares of
                  the  Company  into  which  the then  outstanding  Warrants  to
                  purchase  Common Shares of the Company issued pursuant to that
                  certain Warrant Agreement dated December 20, 1991, between the
                  Company and LaSalle  National  Trust,  N.A., as Warrant Agent,
                  are then exercisable.


         2. Except as  specifically  amended hereby the Rights Plan shall remain
unchanged and continue in full force and effect.


         IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto  have  executed  this First
Amendment to Littelfuse Rights Plan Agreement as of the day and year first above
written.

                                              LITTELFUSE, INC.




                                              By
                                              Its_________________________
                                       LASALLE NATIONAL BANK, as Rights Agent



                                              By
                                              Its________________________

<PAGE>



                                   CERTIFICATE
                                       OF
                                   ADJUSTMENT
                                   FILED WITH
                              LASALLE NATIONAL BANK
                     AS (i) RIGHTS AGENT UNDER THAT CERTAIN
              LITTELFUSE RIGHTS PLAN AGREEMENT (THE "RIGHTS PLAN")
                         DATED AS OF DECEMBER 15, 1995,
                                     BETWEEN
                         LITTELFUSE, INC. ("LITTELFUSE")
                                       AND
                     LASALLE NATIONAL BANK, AS RIGHTS AGENT,
                                       AND
                (ii) AS THE TRANSFER AGENT FOR THE COMMON STOCK,
                          $.01 PAR VALUE, OF LITTELFUSE


         On April 25,  1997,  the Board of Directors  of  Littelfuse  declared a
stock dividend of one share of the Littelfuse  common stock,  $.01 par value per
share (the "Common Stock"),  on each issued and outstanding  share of the Common
Stock,  which was paid and  distributed  on June 10, 1997,  to those  holders of
record of the Common Stock at the close of business on May 20, 1997.


         Pursuant to Section  11(n) of the Rights Plan,  on June 10, 1997,  each
Right  under the  Rights  Plan shall  entitle  the  holder  thereof to  purchase
1/200ths  of a  Preferred  Share for a  purchase  price of  $67.50.  Each  Right
previously  represented a right to purchase  1/100th of a Preferred  Share for a
purchase price of $135.00. This adjustment reflects said stock dividend.


         IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  Littelfuse has caused this Certificate to be duly
executed as of the 10th day of June, 1997.

                                                LITTELFUSE, INC.


                                          By
                                          Its________________________________

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.6
<SEQUENCE>8
<TEXT>


                                                                 Exhibit 10.6

                                                                REVISED 2/6/98


                 1993 STOCK PLAN FOR EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS OF
                                LITTELFUSE, INC.


     1. Purpose.  Littelfuse,  Inc. (the  "Corporation")  desires to attract and
retain  Employees and directors of outstanding  talent.  The 1993 Stock Plan for
Employees  and  Directors of  Littelfuse,  Inc.  (the "Plan")  affords  eligible
Employees and directors the opportunity to acquire proprietary  interests in the
Corporation  and thereby  encourages  their highest  levels of  performance  and
interest.


     2. Scope and Duration.


                    a.   Awards  under the Plan may be granted in the  following
                         forms:


                           (1)incentive   stock   options    ("incentive   stock
                  options"),  as provided in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue
                  Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and non-qualified stock
                  options ("non-qualified  options"; the term "options" includes
                  incentive stock options and non-qualified options);


                    (2)shares of Common  Stock of the  Corporation  (the "Common
                         Stock")  which are  restricted as provided in paragraph
                         10. ("restricted shares"); or


                    (3)rights to  acquire  shares  of  Common  Stock  which  are
                         restricted  as provided in  paragraph  10.  ("units" or
                         "restricted units").


         Options may be accompanied by stock appreciation rights ("rights").


                  b. The maximum  aggregate  number of shares of Common Stock as
         to which awards of options,  restricted shares, units, or rights may be
         made  from  time to time  under the Plan is  1,200,000  shares.  Shares
         issued  pursuant to this Plan may be in whole or in part,  as the Board
         of Directors of the Corporation  (the "Board of Directors")  shall from
         time to time determine, authorized but unissued shares or issued shares
         reacquired by the Corporation. If for any reason any shares as to which
         an option has been granted  cease to be subject to purchase  thereunder
         or any  restricted  shares or  restricted  units are  forfeited  to the
         Corporation,   or  to  the  extent  that  any  awards  under  the  Plan
         denominated  in  shares  or units  are paid or  settled  in cash or are
         surrendered upon the exercise of an option, then (unless the Plan shall
         have been terminated) such shares or units, and any shares  surrendered
         to the  Corporation  upon such  exercise,  shall become  available  for
         subsequent  awards  under  the Plan;  provided,  however,  that  shares
         surrendered by the Corporation  upon the exercise of an incentive stock
         option and shares subject to an incentive stock option surrendered upon
         the exercise of a right shall not be available for subsequent  award of
         additional stock options under the Plan.


                  c. No incentive stock option shall be granted  hereunder after
                     February 11, 2003.


            3.    Administration.


                  a.  The  Plan  shall  be  administered  by  the  Stock  Option
         Committee  or any  successor  thereto of the Board of  Directors of the
         Corporation or by such other  committee (the  "Committee")  as shall be
         determined  by the Board of Directors.  The Committee  shall consist of
         not less than two members of the Board of Directors, each of whom shall
         qualify  as  a  odisinterested   persono  to  administer  the  Plan  as
         contemplated by Rule 16b-3, as amended, or other applicable rules under
         Section 16(b) of the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
         "Exchange Act").


                  b. The  Committee  shall have  plenary  authority  in its sole
         discretion, subject to and not inconsistent with the express provisions
         of this Plan:


                    (1)  to grant  options,  to determine the purchase  price of
                         the Common Stock  covered by each  option,  the term of
                         each option, the persons to whom, and the time or times
                         at which,  options  shall be granted  and the number of
                         shares to be covered by each option;


                    (2)  to  designate  options as  incentive  stock  options or
                         non-qualified  options and to determine  which  options
                         shall be accompanied by rights;


                    (3)  to grant rights and to determine the purchase  price of
                         the  Common  Stock  covered  by each  right or  related
                         option,  the term of each right or related option,  the
                         Employees  and  Eligible  Directors  (as such terms are
                         defined below) to whom, and the time or times at which,
                         rights or  related  options  shall be  granted  and the
                         number of shares to be covered by each right or related
                         option;


                    (4)  to grant restricted  shares and restricted units and to
                         determine the term of the Restricted Period (as defined
                         in paragraph  10.) and other  conditions  applicable to
                         such shares or units,  the  Employees to whom,  and the
                         time or times at which, restricted shares or restricted
                         units  shall be  granted  and the  number  of shares or
                         units to be covered by each grant;


                    (5) to interpret the Plan;


                    (6)  to prescribe,  amend and rescind rules and  regulations
                         relating to the Plan;


                    (7)  to determine the terms and provisions of the option and
                         rights agreements (which need not be identical) and the
                         restricted share and restricted unit agreements  (which
                         need not be identical)  entered into in connection with
                         awards under the Plan;


and to make all other  determinations  deemed  necessary  or  advisable  for the
administration of the Plan.


                  Without  limiting  the  foregoing,  the  Committee  shall have
         plenary  authority  in  its  sole  discretion,   subject  to,  and  not
         inconsistent with, the express provisions of the Plan, to:


                    (1)  select    Participants    (as   defined    below)   for
                         participation in the Plan;


                    (2)  determine the timing, price, and amount of any grant or
                         award under the Plan to any Participant; and


                    (3)  either


                         (a)determine  the form in which  payment  of any  right
                    granted or awarded under the Plan will be made (i.e.,  cash,
                    securities, or any combination thereof), or


                         (b)approve  the election of the  Participant to receive
                    cash in whole or in part in  settlement of any right granted
                    or awarded under the Plan.


         As used in the Plan,  the  following  terms  shall  have the  following
         meanings:  the term  "Littelfuse  Officer" shall mean an officer (other
         than  an  assistant   officer)  of  the   Corporation  or  any  of  its
         Subsidiaries  and  any  other  person  who  may  be  designated  as any
         executive  officer by the Board of  Directors of the  Corporation;  the
         term  "Participant"  shall mean an Employee or Eligible  Director;  the
         term "Employee" shall mean a full-time, non-union, salaried employee of
         the  Corporation  or  any  of  its  Subsidiaries;  the  term  "Eligible
         Director"  shall  mean any  individual  who is a member of the Board of
         Directors  of  the  Corporation  who  is  not  then  an  Employee  or a
         beneficial  owner,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  of more than ten
         percent  (10%) of the  Common  Stock of the  Corporation;  and the term
         oSubsidiarieso  shall mean all  corporations  in which the  Corporation
         owns,  directly or  indirectly,  more than fifty  percent  (50%) of the
         total voting power of all classes of stock.


                                    (c)The Committee may delegate to one or more
                           of  its  members  or  to  one  or  more  agents  such
                           administrative  duties as it may deem advisable,  and
                           the  Committee or any person to whom it has delegated
                           duties as aforesaid may employ one or more persons to
                           render advice with respect to any  responsibility the
                           Committee  or such  person  may have  under the Plan;
                           provided,  that the  Committee  may not  delegate any
                           duties to a member of the Board of Directors  who, if
                           elected to serve on the Committee,  would not qualify
                           as a odisinterested persono to administer the Plan as
                           contemplated  by Rule  16b-3,  as  amended,  or other
                           applicable   rules  under  the   Exchange   Act.  The
                           Committee   may   employ   attorneys,    consultants,
                           accountants, or other persons, and the Committee, the
                           Corporation,  its Subsidiaries,  and their respective
                           officers and directors shall be entitled to rely upon
                           the  advice,  opinions  or  valuations  of  any  such
                           persons.  All actions  taken and all  interpretations
                           and  determinations  made  by the  Committee  in good
                           faith   shall  be   final   and   binding   upon  all
                           Participants,  the Corporation, its Subsidiaries, and
                           all other interested  persons.  No member or agent of
                           the  Committee  shall be  personally  liable  for any
                           action, determination, or interpretation made in good
                           faith  with  respect  to  the  Plan  or  awards  made
                           hereunder,   and  all   members  and  agents  of  the
                           Committee shall be fully protected by the Corporation
                           in  respect  of any such  action,  determination,  or
                           interpretation.


            4.    Eligibility; Factors to Be Considered in Making Awards.


                  a. Persons  eligible to participate in this Plan shall include
         all Employees of the Corporation and all Eligible Directors;  provided,
         however,  that  Eligible  Directors  shall only be  eligible to receive
         grants of options pursuant to subparagraph 4.e.


                  b. In  determining  the  Employees  to whom  awards  shall  be
         granted  and the number of shares or units to be covered by each award,
         the  Committee  shall take into  account the nature of the  Employee's
         duties,  his or her present and potential  contributions to the success
         of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries and such other factors as
         it shall deem relevant in connection with accomplishing the purposes of
         the Plan.


                  c. Awards may be granted singly, in combination,  or in tandem
         and may be made in combination or in tandem with or in replacement  of,
         or as  alternatives  to, awards or grants under any other employee plan
         maintained by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries. An award made
         in the form of a unit or a right may provide,  in the discretion of the
         Committee, for


                           (1)the  crediting  to the  account of, or the current
                  payment to, each  Employee  who has such an award of an amount
                  equal to the cash  dividends and stock  dividends  paid by the
                  Corporation upon one share of Common Stock for each restricted
                  unit or share of Common Stock  subject to a right  included in
                  such award ("Dividend Equivalents"), or


                           (2)the   deemed   reinvestment   of   such   Dividend
                  Equivalents  and stock  dividends  in shares of Common  Stock,
                  which  deemed  reinvestment  shall  be  deemed  to be  made in
                  accordance  with the provisions of paragraph 10., and credited
                  to the Employee's account ("Additional Deemed Shares").


         Such Additional Deemed Shares shall be subject to the same restrictions
         (including  but  not  limited  to  provisions  regarding   forfeitures)
         applicable with respect to the unit or right with respect to which such
         credit is made.  Dividend  Equivalents  not deemed  reinvested as stock
         dividends  shall not be subject  to  forfeiture,  and may bear  amounts
         equivalent  to  interest  or  cash   dividends  as  the  Committee  may
         determine.


                  d. The  Committee,  in its sole  discretion,  may  grant to an
         Employee  who has been  granted  an award  under  the Plan or any other
         employee plan maintained by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries,
         or  any   successor   thereto,   in  exchange  for  the  surrender  and
         cancellation of such award, a new award in the same or a different form
         and containing such terms, including, without limitation, a price which
         is different  (either  higher or lower) than any price  provided in the
         award  so  surrendered  and  cancelled,   as  the  Committee  may  deem
         appropriate.


                  e. Each Eligible  Director  shall be  automatically  granted a
         non-qualified  option to purchase  2,000 shares of Common Stock,  which
         option shall be granted on the effective date of the Plan  (hereinafter
         referred  to  as  the  "Initial   Eligible  Director  Stock  Options").
         Commencing  in 1995,  each  Eligible  Director  shall be  automatically
         granted a  non-qualified  option  to  purchase  2,200  shares of Common
         Stock,  and  commencing  in  1997,  each  Eligible  Director  shall  be
         automatically  granted a non-qualified  option to purchase 2,500 shares
         of Common Stock, which option shall be granted on the date of the first
         meeting of the Board of Directors  of the  Corporation  following  each
         annual  meeting of the  stockholders  of the  Corporation  (hereinafter
         sometimes  referred to as the "Annual Eligible  Director Stock Options"
         and  sometimes,  together  with the  Initial  Eligible  Director  Stock
         Options,  as the  'Eligible  Director  Stock  Options").  The number of
         Annual Eligible  Director Stock Options to be granted as of the date of
         any such  meeting of the Board of  Directors  shall be  proportionately
         adjusted   to   reflect   any   stock    splits,    stock    dividends,
         recapitalizations  or  similar  transactions  causing  an  increase  or
         decrease in the number of issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock
         which have  occurred  since the date of the most recent grant of Annual
         Eligible Director Stock Options. Any Eligible Director may waive his or
         her right to be granted Eligible  Director Stock Options.  In the event
         that the granting of any Annual  Eligible  Director Stock Options would
         cause the 1,200,000 share limitation  contained in Section 2.b.  hereof
         to be  exceeded  (after  taking  into  account  any waivers by Eligible
         Directors to accept some or all of the Annual  Eligible  Director Stock
         Options  to which he or she would  otherwise  be  entitled),  the total
         number of Annual  Eligible  Director  Stock  Options then to be granted
         shall be reduced to a number  which  would cause said  1,200,000  share
         limitation not to be exceeded and the amount of  non-qualified  options
         to be granted to each  Eligible  Director who has not waived his or her
         right to  receive  Annual  Eligible  Director  Stock  Options  shall be
         proportionately  reduced.  The  purchase  price  for the  Common  Stock
         covered by each Eligible Director Stock Option shall be the fair market
         value (as defined  below) of the Common  Stock on the date the Eligible
         Director Stock Option is granted, payable at the time and in the manner
         provided in Section 5.b.  below.  Each Eligible  Director  Stock Option
         granted to an Eligible  Director shall be exercisable as follows:  with
         respect to  twenty-percent  (20%) of the Common Stock  covered  thereby
         during the ten (10) year period  commencing  one (1) year following the
         date of grant;  with respect to an additional  twenty  percent (20%) of
         the  Common  Stock  covered  thereby  during  the ten (10) year  period
         commencing two (2) years  following the date of grant;  with respect to
         an additional  twenty percent (20%) of the Common Stock covered thereby
         during the ten (10) year period  commencing  three (3) years  following
         the date of grant;  with respect to an additional  twenty percent (20%)
         of the Common  Stock  covered  thereby  during the ten (10) year period
         commencing four (4) years following the date of grant; and with respect
         to the  remaining  twenty  percent  (20%) of the Common  Stock  covered
         thereby  during  the ten (10)  year  period  commencing  five (5) years
         following the date of grant. The foregoing  formula can only be amended
         to the extent  permitted by Rule 16b-3, as amended,  under the Exchange
         Act.


            5.    Option Price.


                  a. The  purchase  price of the  Common  Stock  covered by each
         option  awarded to an Employee  shall be determined  by the  Committee;
         provided,  however,  that in the case of incentive  stock options,  the
         purchase  price shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of
         the Common  Stock on the date the option is granted.  Fair market value
         shall mean,


                           (1)if the Common  Stock is duly  listed on a national
                  securities   exchange  or  on  the  National   Association  of
                  Securities Dealers Automatic Quotation  System/National Market
                  System  ("NASDAQ")  ("Duly Listed"),  the closing price of the
                  Common Stock for the date on which the option is granted,  or,
                  if there are no sales on such date, on the next  preceding day
                  on which there were sales, or


                           (2)if the Common Stock is not Duly  Listed,  the fair
                  market  value of the  Common  Stock  for the date on which the
                  option is granted,  as  determined  by the  Committee  in good
                  faith.  Such price shall be subject to  adjustment as provided
                  in paragraph 13.


         The price so determined shall also be applicable in connection with the
exercise of any related right.


                  b. The  purchase  price of the shares as to which an option is
         exercised shall be paid in full at the time of exercise; payment may be
         made in cash, which may be paid by check or other instrument acceptable
         to the Corporation, or, if permitted by the Committee, in shares of the
         Common  Stock,  valued  at the  closing  price of the  Common  Stock as
         reported  on either a national  securities  exchange  or NASDAQ for the
         date of exercise,  or if there were no sales on such date,  on the next
         preceding day on which there were sales (or, if the Common Stock is not
         Duly  Listed,  the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of
         exercise,  as  determined  by the  Committee  in good  faith),  or,  if
         permitted by the Committee and subject to such terms and  conditions as
         it may determine, by surrender of outstanding awards under the Plan. In
         addition,  the  Participant  shall pay any amount  necessary to satisfy
         applicable  federal,  state,  or local tax  requirements  promptly upon
         notification of the amount due. The Committee may permit such amount to
         be paid in shares of Common Stock  previously owned by the Participant,
         or a portion of the  shares of Common  Stock  that  otherwise  would be
         distributed  to such  Participant  upon  exercise of the  option,  or a
         combination of cash and shares of such Common Stock.


            6. Term of Options.  The term of each incentive stock option granted
under the Plan shall be such period of time as the  Committee  shall  determine,
but not  more  than  ten  years  from  the date of  grant,  subject  to  earlier
termination as provided in paragraphs 11. and 12. The term of each non-qualified
option  granted under the Plan to Employees  shall be such period of time as the
Committee  shall  determine,  subject  to earlier  termination  as  provided  in
paragraphs 11. and 12.


            7.    Exercise of Options.


                  a. Each option shall become exercisable,  in whole or in part,
         as the Committee shall determine; provided, however, that the Committee
         may also,  in its  discretion,  accelerate  the  exercisability  of any
         option in whole or in part at any time.


                  b. Subject to the provisions of the Plan and unless  otherwise
         provided  in the option  agreement,  an option  granted  under the Plan
         shall become  exercisable in full at the earliest of the ParticipantAEs
         death,  Eligible Retirement (as defined below), Total Disability,  or a
         Change in Control (as defined in  paragraph  12).  For purposes of this
         Plan, the term "Eligible Retirement" shall mean (1)athe date upon which
         an  Employee,  having  attained  an  age of not  less  than  sixty-two,
         terminates his employment with the  Corporation  and its  Subsidiaries,
         provided that such Employee has been employed by the Corporation or any
         of its  Subsidiaries or any corporation of which the Corporation or any
         of its Subsidiaries is the successor for a period of not less than five
         (5) years  prior to such  termination,  or  (2)athe  date upon which an
         Eligible Director,  having attained the age of not less than sixty-two,
         terminates his service as a director of the Corporation.


                  c. An  option  may be  exercised,  at any time or from time to
         time  (subject,  in the  case of an  incentive  stock  option,  to such
         restrictions  as may be  imposed  by the  Code),  as to any or all full
         shares  as to  which  the  option  has  become  exercisable;  provided,
         however, that an option may not be exercised at any one time as to less
         than 100  shares  or less  than the  number  of  shares as to which the
         option is then exercisable, if that number is less than 100 shares.


                  d. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 11. and 12., in the
         case of incentive stock options, no option may be exercised at any time
         unless the holder thereof is then an Employee.


                  e.  Upon the  exercise  of an  option or  portion  thereof  in
         accordance  with the Plan,  the  option  agreement  and such  rules and
         regulations as may be established by the Committee,  the holder thereof
         shall  have the  rights of a  shareholder  with  respect  to the shares
         issued as a result of such exercise.


            8.    Award and Exercise of Rights.


                  a. A right may be awarded by the Committee in connection  with
         any  option  granted  under the Plan,  either at the time the option is
         granted or thereafter at any time prior to the exercise, termination or
         expiration of the option ("tandem right"), or separately ("freestanding
         right").  Each  tandem  right  shall be  subject  to the same terms and
         conditions as the related option and shall be  exercisable  only to the
         extent the option is  exercisable.  No right shall be  exercisable  for
         cash by a  Littelfuse  Officer  within six (6) months from the date the
         right is awarded (and then,  as to a tandem  right,  only to the extent
         the related  option is  exercisable)  or, if the exercise  price of the
         right is not fixed on the date of the award, within six (6) months from
         the date when the exercise price is so fixed, and in any case only when
         the Littelfuse  Officer's  election to receive cash in full or partial
         satisfaction  of  the  right,  as  well  as the  Littelfuse  Officer's
         exercise  of the right  for cash,  is made  during a  Quarterly  Window
         Period (as defined below); provided, that a right may be exercised by a
         Littelfuse  Officer for cash outside a Quarterly  Window  Period if the
         date of exercise is  automatic  or has been fixed in advance  under the
         Plan  and is  outside  the  Littelfuse  Officer's  control.  The  term
         "Quarterly  Window Period" shall mean the period beginning on the third
         business   day   following   the  date  of   release  of  each  of  the
         Corporation's  quarterly  and annual  summary  statements of sales and
         earnings and ending on the twelfth business day following such release;
         and the date of any such  release  shall  be  deemed  to be the date it
         either:


                    (1)  appears on a wire service,


                    (2)  appears on a financial news service,


                    (3)  appears in a newspaper of general circulation, or


                    (4)  is otherwise made publicly  available,  for example, by
                         press  releases  to  a  wire  service,  financial  news
                         service, or newspapers or general circulation.


                  b. A  right  shall  entitle  the  Employee  upon  exercise  in
         accordance with its terms  (subject,  in the case of a tandem right, to
         the  surrender  unexercised  of the  related  option or any  portion or
         portions  thereof  which the Employee  from time to time  determines to
         surrender  for this purpose) to receive,  subject to the  provisions of
         the Plan and such  rules  and  regulations  as from time to time may be
         established by the Committee, a payment having an aggregate value equal
         to the product of


                           (1)the excess of


                    (a)  the fair market value on the exercise date of one share
                         of Common Stock over


                    (b)  the exercise  price per share,  in the case of a tandem
                         right, or the price per share specified in the terms of
                         the  right,  in  the  case  of  a  freestanding  right,
                         multiplied by


                         (2) the  number of  shares  with  respect  to which the
                    right shall have been exercised.

                         The  payment  may be made  only  in  cash,  subject  to
                    subparagraph 8.a. hereof.


                  c. The exercise price per share  specified in a right shall be
         as determined by the Committee,  provided that, in the case of a tandem
         right  accompanying an incentive stock option, the exercise price shall
         be not less than fair market value of the Common Stock  subject to such
         option on the date of grant.


                  d. If upon the  exercise of a right the Employee is to receive
         a portion  of the  payment  in shares of Common  Stock,  the  number of
         shares shall be  determined by dividing such portion by the fair market
         value of a share on the exercise  date.  The number of shares  received
         may not exceed  the  number of shares  covered by any option or portion
         thereof surrendered. Cash will be paid in lieu of any fractional share.


                  e. No payment will be required  from an Employee upon exercise
         of a right,  except  that any amount  necessary  to satisfy  applicable
         federal,  state,  or local tax  requirements  shall be withheld or paid
         promptly by the Employee upon  notification of the amount due and prior
         to or concurrently with delivery of cash or a certificate  representing
         shares.  The  Committee  may permit such amount to be paid in shares of
         Common  Stock  previously  owned by the  Employee,  or a portion of the
         shares of Common  Stock that  otherwise  would be  distributed  to such
         Employee  upon  exercise  of the right,  or a  combination  of cash and
         shares of such Common Stock.


                  f. The fair  market  value of a share  shall mean the  closing
         price of the Common  Stock as reported on either a national  securities
         exchange or NASDAQ for the date of  exercise,  or if there are no sales
         on such date,  on the next  preceding  day on which  there were  sales;
         provided,  however,  that  in the  case of  rights  that  relate  to an
         incentive  stock  option,  the  Committee  may  prescribe,  by rules of
         general  application,  such other  measure of fair market  value as the
         Committee  may in its  discretion  determine  but not in  excess of the
         maximum amount that would be permissible  under Section 422 of the Code
         without disqualifying such option under Section 422.


                  g.  Upon  exercise  of a tandem  right,  the  number of shares
         subject to exercise  under the related  option shall  automatically  be
         reduced  by the number of shares  represented  by the option or portion
         thereof surrendered.


                  h. A right  related to an  incentive  stock option may only be
         exercised  if the fair market  value of a share of Common  Stock on the
         exercise date exceeds the option price.


                    9.   Non-Transferability  of  Options,  Rights,  and  Units;
                         Holding  Periods for  Littelfuse  Officers and Eligible
                         Directors.


                  a. Options, rights, and units granted under the Plan shall not
         be transferable  by the grantee  thereof  otherwise than by will or the
         laws of descent and distribution; provided, however, that


          (1)  the  designation  of a  beneficiary  by a  Participant  shall not
               constitute a transfer, and


          (2)  options and rights may be  exercised  during the  lifetime of the
               Participant  only by the  Participant  or,  unless such  exercise
               would  disqualify an option as an incentive stock option,  by the
               Participant's guardian or legal representative.


          b. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary,


                           (1)any shares of Common Stock awarded  hereunder to a
                  Littelfuse  Officer may not be  transferred or disposed of for
                  at least six (6) months from the date of award thereof,


                           (2)any option,  right, or unit awarded hereunder to a
                  Littelfuse  Officer  or  Eligible  Director,  or the shares of
                  Common  Stock  into  which any such  option,  right or unit is
                  exercised or converted,  may not be transferred or disposed of
                  for at least six (6) months  following the date of acquisition
                  by the Littelfuse Officer or Eligible Director of such option,
                  right, or unit, and


                    (3) the  Committee  shall take no action  whose effect would
               cause  a  Littelfuse  Officer  or  Eligible  Director  to  be  in
               violation of clause (1) or (2) above.


                  c.  Notwithstanding  the foregoing and anything else contained
         in the Plan to the contrary,  up to 25% of the number of  non-qualified
         options (said  percentage  to be calculated  using as the nominator the
         sum of the amountaof outstanding and unexercised  non-qualified options
         proposed to be  transferred  plus the number of  non-qualified  options
         previously  transferred  by said  Participant  within the previous four
         years  and  using  as  the   denominator   the   aggregate   number  of
         non-qualified  options granted to said Participant  within the previous
         four  years)  may  be  transferred  (but  only  on a gift  basis)  by a
         Participant to an immediate family member of the Participant or a trust
         which has as beneficiaries at the time of transfer only the Participant
         and/or immediate family members of the Participant. As used herein, the
         term   oimmediate   family  memberso  shall  mean  the  spouse  of  the
         Participant,   children   of  the   Participant   and  their   spouses,
         grandchildren    of   the    Participant    and   their   spouses   and
         great-grandchildren  of the Participant and their spouses  (hereinafter
         referred to as a "Permitted Transferee"). All transferred non-qualified
         options shall remain  subject to all of the  provisions of the Plan and
         any agreement  between the Participant  and the Corporation  pertaining
         thereto,  including,  without limitation, all vesting,  termination and
         forfeiture  provisions,  and the rights and obligations of a transferee
         with respect to a  non-qualified  option  transferred  thereto shall be
         determined  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of the  Plan  and  any  such
         agreement  as if the  Participant  remained the holder  thereof.  In no
         event shall any  transferee  of a transferred  non-qualified  option be
         entitled to transfer such  non-qualified  option except pursuant to the
         laws of descent and distribution. Any transfer of non-qualified options
         made  pursuant to this  subsection  (c) must be made  pursuant to legal
         documentation  provided by the Corporation,  which legal  documentation
         may  contain  such  terms and  conditions  as the  Corporation,  in its
         discretion,  deems appropriate, and shall be subject to verification by
         the Corporation or its legal counsel that the proposed  transferee is a
         Permitted Transferee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in
         its  absolute  discretion,   may  restrict  or  deny  the  transfer  of
         non-qualified  options  with respect to one or more  Participants.  The
         provisions  of this  subsection  (c) shall be deemed  to  override  and
         control over any provisions in any Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement
         between the Corporation and a Participant which is dated before January
         1, 1998,  to the extent such  provisions  would not allow a transfer of
         non-qualified  options  pursuant to the  provisions of this  subsection
         (c).


           10.    Award and Delivery of Restricted Shares or Restricted Units.


                  a. At the time an award of  restricted  shares  or  restricted
         units is made,  the  Committee  shall  establish  a period of time (the
         "Restricted Period") applicable to such award. Each award of restricted
         shares or restricted units may have a different  Restricted Period. The
         Committee  may, in its sole  discretion,  at the time an award is made,
         prescribe  conditions for the incremental lapse of restrictions  during
         the Restricted  Period and for the lapse or termination of restrictions
         upon the  satisfaction of other conditions in addition to or other than
         the  expiration  of the  Restricted  Period with  respect to all or any
         portion  of the  restricted  shares or  restricted  units.  Subject  to
         paragraph 9., the Committee may also, in its sole  discretion  shorten,
         or terminate the  Restricted  Period,  or waive any  conditions for the
         lapse or termination of restrictions with respect to all or any portion
         of the  restricted  shares or  restricted  units.  Notwithstanding  the
         foregoing but subject to paragraph 9., all restrictions  shall lapse or
         terminate  with respect to all  restricted  shares or restricted  units
         upon the earliest to occur of an  Employee's  Eligible  Retirement,  a
         Change in Control, death, or Total Disability.


                  b. (1) Unless such shares are issued as uncertificated  shares
         pursuant  to  subparagraph   10.b.(2)(a)  below,  a  stock  certificate
         representing  the number of  restricted  shares  granted to an Employee
         shall  be  registered  in the  Employee's  name  but  shall be held in
         custody by the  Corporation  or an agent  therefor for the  Employee's
         account. The Employee shall generally have the rights and privileges of
         a shareholder as to such restricted shares, including the right to vote
         such  restricted  shares,  except that,  subject to the  provisions  of
         paragraphs 11. and 12., the following restrictions shall apply:


                           (a)the  Employee shall not be entitled to delivery of
                  the  certificate  until the  expiration or  termination of the
                  Restricted Period and the satisfaction of any other conditions
                  prescribed by the Committee;


                           (b)none  of  the  restricted   shares  may  be  sold,
                  transferred,  assigned,  pledged,  or otherwise  encumbered or
                  disposed  of  during  the  Restricted  Period  and  until  the
                  satisfaction  of  any  other  conditions   prescribed  by  the
                  Committee; and


                           (c)all of the  restricted  shares  shall be forfeited
                  and all rights of the Employee to such restricted shares shall
                  terminate  without  further  obligation  on  the  part  of the
                  Corporation unless the Employee has remained an Employee until
                  the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period and the
                  satisfaction  of  any  other  conditions   prescribed  by  the
                  Committee   applicable  to  such  restricted  shares.  At  the
                  discretion of the Committee,


                                    (i)cash and stock  dividends with respect to
                           the restricted shares may be either currently paid or
                           withheld  by  the  Corporation  for  the  EmployeeAEs
                           account,  and  interest  may be paid on the amount of
                           cash dividends withheld at a rate and subject to such
                           terms as determined by the Committee, or


                                    (ii)the  Committee may require that all cash
                           dividends  be applied to the  purchase of  additional
                           shares of Common Stock,  and such  purchased  shares,
                           together  with any stock  dividends  related  to such
                           restricted  shares (such  purchased  shares and stock
                           dividends  are hereafter  referred to as  "Additional
                           Restricted  Shares")  shall be treated as  Additional
                           Shares,  subject to  forfeiture on the same terms and
                           conditions  as the original  grant of the  restricted
                           shares to the Employee.


          (2)  The purchase of any such  Additional  Restricted  Shares shall be
               made either


                           (a)through a dividend  reinvestment  plan that may be
                  established   by   the   Corporation   which   satisfies   the
                  requirements  of Rule 16b-2 under the  Exchange  Act, in which
                  event  the  price of such  shares  so  purchased  through  the
                  reinvestment of dividends shall be as determined in accordance
                  with the  provisions  of that  plan  and no stock  certificate
                  representing such Additional Restricted Shares shall be in the
                  Employee's name, or


                    (b)in  accordance  with  such  alternative  procedure  as is
               determined  by the  Committee  in which  event  the price of such
               purchased shares shall be


                                    (i)if the Common Stock is Duly  Listed,  the
                           closing  price of the  Common  Stock as  reported  on
                           either a national  securities  exchange or NASDAQ for
                           the date on which such  purchase is made, or if there
                           were no sales on such date, the next preceding day on
                           which there were sales, or


                                    (ii)if the Common  Stock is not Duly Listed,
                           the fair  market  value of the  Common  Stock for the
                           date on which such purchase is made, as determined by
                           the  Committee  in good faith.  In the event that the
                           Committee  shall not require  reinvestment,  cash, or
                           stock  dividends so withheld by the  Committee  shall
                           not be subject to forfeiture.  Upon the forfeiture of
                           any  restricted   shares  (including  any  Additional
                           Restricted  Shares),  such forfeited  shares shall be
                           transferred to the Corporation without further action
                           by the  Employee.  The  Employee  shall have the same
                           rights  and  privileges,  and be  subject to the same
                           restrictions,  with  respect to any  shares  received
                           pursuant to paragraph 13.


                  c. Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period
         and  the  satisfaction  of  any  other  conditions  prescribed  by  the
         Committee or at such earlier time as provided for in paragraphs 11. and
         12., the restrictions  applicable to the restricted  shares  (including
         Additional  Restricted  Shares) shall lapse and a stock certificate for
         the number of restricted  shares  (including any Additional  Restricted
         Shares)  with  respect to which the  restrictions  have lapsed shall be
         delivered,  free of all  such  restrictions,  except  any  that  may be
         imposed by law,  to the  Employee  or the  Employee's  beneficiary  or
         estate,  as the case may be. The  Corporation  shall not be required to
         deliver  any  fractional  share of Common  Stock but will pay,  in lieu
         thereof,  the  fair  market  value  (determined  as  of  the  date  the
         restrictions  lapse) of such  fractional  share to the  Employee or the
         Employee's  beneficiary or estate, as the case may be. No payment will
         be  required  from the  Employee  upon the  issuance or delivery of any
         restricted  shares,   except  that  any  amount  necessary  to  satisfy
         applicable federal,  state, or local tax requirements shall be withheld
         or paid  promptly upon  notification  of the amount due and prior to or
         concurrently   with  the   issuance  or   delivery  of  a   certificate
         representing  such shares.  The  Committee may permit such amount to be
         paid in shares of Common Stock previously  owned by the Employee,  or a
         portion  of  the  shares  of  Common  Stock  that  otherwise  would  be
         distributed  to  such  Employee  upon  the  lapse  of the  restrictions
         applicable  to the  restricted  shares,  or a  combination  of cash and
         shares of such Common Stock.


                  d. In the case of an award of restricted  units,  no shares of
         Common  Stock  shall be issued  at the time the award is made,  and the
         Corporation  shall not be  required to set aside a fund for the payment
         of any such award.

                  e. (1) Upon the  expiration or  termination  of the Restricted
         Period and the satisfaction of any other  conditions  prescribed by the
         Committee  or at such earlier  time as provided in  paragraphs  11. and
         12., the  Corporation  shall deliver to the Employee or the Employee's
         beneficiary  or estate,  as the case may be, one share of Common  Stock
         for each  restricted unit with respect to which the  restrictions  have
         lapsed ("vested unit").


                           (2) In addition,  if the  Committee  has not required
         the  deemed  reinvestment  of such  Dividend  Equivalents  pursuant  to
         paragraph  4.,  at such  time  the  Corporation  shall  deliver  to the
         Employee  cash equal to any  Dividend  Equivalents  or stock  dividends
         credited  with  respect  to each such  vested  unit and,  to the extent
         determined by the Committee,  the interest  thereupon.  However, if the
         Committee has required such deemed reinvestment in connection with such
         restricted  unit, in addition to the stock  represented  by such vested
         unit,  the  Corporation  shall deliver the number of Additional  Deemed
         Shares credited to the Employee with respect to such vested unit.


                           (3) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may,
         in its sole discretion,  elect to pay cash or part cash and part Common
         Stock in lieu of delivering  only Common Stock for the vested units and
         related  Additional Deemed Shares. If a cash payment is made in lieu of
         delivering Common Stock, the amount of such cash payment shall be equal
         to


                           (a)if the Common  Stock is Duly  Listed,  the closing
                  price of the  Common  Stock as  reported  on either a national
                  securities  exchange  or  NASDAQ  for the  date on  which  the
                  Restricted  Period lapsed with respect to such vested unit and
                  related  Additional  Deemed  Shares (the "Lapse  Date") or, if
                  there are no sales on such date, on the next  preceding day on
                  which there were sales, or


                    (b)if the Common Stock is not Duly  Listed,  the fair market
               value of the Common Stock for the Lapse Date,  as  determined  by
               the Committee in good faith.


                  f. No payment  will be  required  from the  Employee  upon the
         award of any restricted units, the crediting or payment of any Dividend
         Equivalents  or  Additional  Deemed  Shares,  or the delivery of Common
         Stock or the  payment of cash in respect of vested  units,  except that
         any amount necessary to satisfy applicable federal, state, or local tax
         requirements  shall be withheld or paid promptly upon  notification  of
         the amount  due.  The  Committee  may permit  such amount to be paid in
         shares of Common Stock previously  owned by the Employee,  or a portion
         of the shares of Common Stock that  otherwise  would be  distributed to
         such Employee in respect of vested units and Additional  Deemed Shares,
         or a combination of cash and shares of such Common Stock.


                  g. In addition,  the  Committee  shall have the right,  in its
         absolute  discretion,   upon  the  vesting  of  any  restricted  shares
         (including   Additional   Restricted   Shares)  and  restricted   units
         (including  Additional Deemed Shares) to award cash compensation to the
         Employee  for the purpose of aiding the  Employee in the payment of any
         and all federal,  state,  and local income taxes payable as a result of
         such  vesting,  if  the  performance  of  the  Corporation  during  the
         Restricted Period meets such criteria as then or theretofore determined
         by the Committee.


           11.  Termination  of  Employment  or  Service.  In the event that the
employment  of an Employee or the service as a director of an Eligible  Director
to whom an option or right has been granted  under the Plan shall be  terminated
for any reason  other than as set forth in paragraph  12.,  such option or right
may, subject to the provisions of the Plan, be exercised (but only to the extent
that  the  Employee  or an  Eligible  Director  was  entitled  to  do so at  the
termination of his  employment or service as a director,  as the case may be) at
any time within  three (3) months after such  termination,  but in no case later
than the date on which the option or right terminates.


         Unless  otherwise  determined by the Committee,  if an Employee to whom
restricted  shares  or  restricted  units  have  been  granted  ceases  to be an
Employee,  for any reason other than as set forth in paragraph 12., prior to the
end of the  Restricted  Period  and the  satisfaction  of any  other  conditions
prescribed  by  the  Committee,  the  Employee  shall  immediately  forfeit  all
restricted  shares and restricted  units,  including all  Additional  Restricted
Shares or Additional Deemed Shares related thereto.


         Any option,  right,  restricted share or restricted unit agreement,  or
any rules and  regulations  relating to the Plan, may contain such provisions as
the Committee  shall  approve with  reference to the  determination  of the date
employment  terminates  and the effect of leaves of absence.  Any such rules and
regulations  with reference to any option agreement shall be consistent with the
provisions  of the Code and any  applicable  rules and  regulations  thereunder.
Nothing in the Plan or in any award  granted  pursuant to the Plan shall  confer
upon any  Participant  any right to  continue  in the  employ or  service of the
Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries or interfere in any way with the right of
the  Corporation or its  Subsidiaries to terminate such employment or service at
any time.


           12. Eligible  Retirement,  Death, or Total  Disability of Employee or
Eligible  Director,  Change in Control.  If any Employee or Eligible Director to
whom an option,  right,  restricted  share,  or restricted unit has been granted
under the Plan  shall die or suffer a Total  Disability  while  employed  by the
Corporation or in the service of the Corporation as a director,  if any Employee
terminates his employment or any Eligible  Director  terminates his service as a
director  pursuant to an Eligible  Retirement,  or if a Change in Control should
occur,  such  option or right may be  exercised  as set  forth  herein,  or such
restricted  shares or restricted  unit shall be deemed to be vested,  whether or
not the Participant was otherwise  entitled at such time to exercise such option
or  right,  or be  treated  as  vested  in such  share or unit.  Subject  to the
restrictions  otherwise  set forth in the Plan,  such  option or right  shall be
exercisable by the Participant,  a legatee or legatees of the Participant  under
the ParticipantAEs last will, or by the ParticipantAEs personal  representatives
or distributees, whichever is applicable, at the earlier of


          a.   the date on which the option or right  terminates  in  accordance
               with the term of grant, or


          b.   any time prior to the  expiration  of three (3) months  after the
               date of such Participant's Eligible Retirement,  his termination
               due  to  total  disability,  or the  occurrence  of a  Change  in
               Control,   or,   if   applicable,   within   one   year  of  such
               Participant's death.


For  purposes  of this  paragraph  12.,  "Total  Disability"  is  defined as the
permanent  inability of a Participant,  as a result of accident or sickness,  to
perform  any and every duty  pertaining  to such  Participant's  occupation  or
employment for which the  Participant is suited by reason of the  Participant's
previous training, education, and experience.


         A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred upon


                  a.   a   business   combination,   including   a   merger   or
         consolidation,   of  the  Corporation  and  the   shareholders  of  the
         Corporation  prior to the combination do not continue to own,  directly
         or indirectly,  more than fifty-one  percent (51%) of the equity of the
         combined entity;


                  b. a  sale,  transfer,  or  other  disposition  in one or more
         transactions  (other than in  transactions  in the  ordinary  course of
         business  or in the  nature of a  financing)  of the  assets or earning
         power  aggregating more than forty-five  percent (45%) of the assets or
         operating  revenues of the  Corporation  to any person or affiliated or
         associated  group of persons (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the  Exchange
         Act in effect as of the date hereof);


                  c.       the liquidation of the Corporation;


                  d. one or more transactions which result in the acquisition by
         any person or associated  group of persons (other than the Corporation,
         any employee  benefit  plan whose  beneficiaries  are  Employees of the
         Corporation or any of its  Subsidiaries,  or TCW Special Credits or any
         of its  affiliates)  of the  beneficial  ownership  (as defined in Rule
         13d-3 of the  Exchange  Act, in effect as of the date  hereof) of forty
         percent  (40%)  or  more  of  the  Common  Stock  of  the  Corporation,
         securities  representing  forty  percent  (40%) or more of the combined
         voting  power  of  the  voting  securities  of  the  Corporation  which
         affiliated  persons  owned less than forty  percent (40%) prior to such
         transaction or transactions; or


                  e. the  election  or  appointment,  within a twelve (12) month
         period,  of any person or  affiliated or  associated  group,  or its or
         their nominees, to the Board of Directors of the Corporation, such that
         such  persons or  nominees,  when  elected or  appointed,  constitute a
         majority  of the  Board  of  Directors  of the  Corporation  and  whose
         appointment or election was not approved by a majority of those persons
         who were directors at the beginning of such period or whose election or
         appointment was made at the request of an Acquiring Person.


         An  "Acquiring  Person" is any person who, or which,  together with all
affiliates  or  associates  of such person,  is the  beneficial  owner of twenty
percent (20%) or more of the Common Stock of the Corporation  then  outstanding,
except that an Acquiring Person does not include the Corporation or any employee
benefit plan of the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries or any person holding
Common Stock of the Corporation for or pursuant to such plan. For the purpose of
determining who is an Acquiring Person, the percentage of the outstanding shares
of the Common Stock of which a person is a beneficial  owner shall be calculated
in accordance with Rule 13d-e of the Exchange Act.


           13. Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization,  etc. Notwithstanding
any other  provision of the Plan,  the Committee may at any time make or provide
for such  adjustments  to the Plan, to the number and class of shares  available
thereunder or to any outstanding options, restricted shares, or restricted units
as it shall deem  appropriate  to prevent  dilution  or  enlargement  of rights,
including  adjustments in the event of  distributions to holders of Common Stock
other than a normal cash dividend,  changes in the  outstanding  Common Stock by
reason   of   stock   dividends,    split-ups,    recapitalizations,    mergers,
consolidations,    combinations,    or   exchanges   of   shares,   separations,
reorganizations,  liquidations,  and the  like.  In the  event  of any  offer to
holders of Common Stock  generally  relating to the acquisition of their shares,
the  Committee  may make such  adjustment  as it deems  equitable  in respect of
outstanding options,  rights, and restricted units including in the CommitteeAEs
discretion revision of outstanding options, rights, and restricted units so that
they may be  exercisable  for or  payable  in the  consideration  payable in the
acquisition  transaction.  Any  such  determination  by the  Committee  shall be
conclusive.  No  adjustment  shall be made in the minimum  number of shares with
respect to which an option may be exercised at any time. Any  fractional  shares
resulting  from  such  adjustments  to  options,   rights,  limited  rights,  or
restricted units shall be eliminated.


           14.  Effective  Date.  The Plan as  theretofore  amended shall become
effective as of February 12, 1993,  provided  that the Plan shall be approved by
the  Corporation's  stockholders  on or before February 11, 1994. The Committee
may, in its  discretion,  grant awards under the Plan, the grant,  exercise,  or
payment of which  shall be  expressly  subject to the  conditions  that,  to the
extent required at the time of grant, exercise, or payment,


          a.   the shares of Common  Stock  covered by such awards shall be Duly
               Listed, upon official notice of issuance, and


          b.   if  the   Corporation   deems  it  necessary  or   desirable,   a
               Registration  Statement  under  the  Securities  Act of 1933 with
               respect to such shares shall be effective.


           15.  Termination  and  Amendment.  The  Board  of  Directors  of  the
Corporation may suspend, terminate,  modify, or amend the Plan, provided that if
any such amendment requires  shareholder approval to meet the requirement of the
then  applicable  rules under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, such  amendment
shall be subject to the approval of the Corporation's stockholders. If the Plan
is terminated,  the terms of the Plan shall,  notwithstanding  such termination,
continue to apply to awards granted prior to such termination.  In addition,  no
suspension, termination, modification, or amendment of the Plan may, without the
consent of the Employee or Eligible  Director to whom an award shall theretofore
have been  granted,  adversely  affect the rights of such  Employee  or Eligible
Director under such award.


           16. Written  Agreements.  Each award of options,  rights,  restricted
shares, or restricted units shall be evidenced by a written agreement,  executed
by the Participant and the Corporation,  which shall contain such  restrictions,
terms and conditions as the Committee may require.


           17. Effect on Other Stock Plans.  The adoption of the Plan shall have
no effect on awards made, or to be made,  pursuant to other stock plans covering
Employees or Eligible Directors of the Corporation or any successors thereto.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<TEXT>



                                                            Exhibit 13.1





Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations

The following  discussion  provides an analysis of the information  contained in
the consolidated  financial  statements and accompanying notes beginning on page
26 for the three years ended January 3, 1998.


Highlights

The engine of our sales growth in 1997 again was electronics.  Electronics sales
increased  20% in US dollars and 22 % in constant  currency.  Over the last five
years,  electronics  sales  have  grown  at a  compounded  annual  rate  of 15%.
Automotive  sales  in  1997  increased  9% in US  dollars  and  13% in  constant
currency.  Europe's automotive sales were very strong in local currencies.  Over
the last five years,  automotive sales have grown at a compounded annual rate of
12%.  Power fuse sales in 1997  increased  8% both in US dollars and in constant
currency.  Over the last five years, power fuse sales have grown at a compounded
annual rate of 10%. The  company's  focus on  international  sales and marketing
produced  significant  results in 1997 as sales  outside  North America grew 20%
compared to 11% sales growth in North America.

Sales  increased 14 percent during 1997 compared to 1996.  Operating  income for
1997 increased 16 percent compared to the prior year and net income increased by
17 percent.  Earnings before  interest,  taxes,  depreciation  and  amortization
(EBITDA)  increased 10 percent in 1997  compared to the prior year.  The company
repurchased  210,000  warrants  and 205,000  shares of its common stock for $8.6
million during the year and our debt decreased $4.0 million. The company reduced
its total  debt to equity  ratio to .40 to 1 at the end of 1997 from .50 to 1 at
the end of 1996.

The  company  made  significant  new  product  introductions  and  international
facility  expansions  during  1997.  In the spring,  we  introduced  a new alarm
indicating  fuse for use in the  electronics  industry and a new JCASE cartridge
style fuse for 20 to 60 amp applications in the automotive  market. In the fall,
we introduced an expanded line of indicating fuses in the electrical  market and
a surface mount polymeric PTC device for use in the electronics  industry.  This
latest  device  is  our  downsized  SMD  entry  into  the  conductive  polymeric
resettable market.

The company  also made  significant  investments  for the future,  completing  a
facility  addition  in  Switzerland  for  molding  equipment  and auto MAXI fuse
production and substantially completing a small facility addition in Des Plaines
to increase thin-film production  capacity.  The company also made a significant
investment  in equipment and tooling to add capacity for auto MINI fuses and for
electronic PICO fuses and to support our new electronic surface mount resettable
PTC device production.



Results of Operations
1997 Compared with 1996
Littelfuse  had record  sales and earnings for the sixth  straight  year.  Sales
increased 14 percent to $275.2  million in 1997 from $241.4 million in 1996. The
gross margin was 40.4% compared to 40.7% the prior year and operating income was
15.9% of net sales  compared to 15.6% the prior year.  EBITDA was $65.1  million
compared to $59.4 million in 1996. As a result, the company during 1997 was able
to invest $18.9 million in capital  improvements  and to repurchase $8.6 million
of its warrants and common stock, while decreasing its debt $4.0 million.

Sales increased $33.8 million during 1997. The sales growth was strongest in the
electronics  segment,  followed by automotive and power fuses.  Electronic sales
increased  $22.7  million or 20 percent to $135.3  million in 1997  compared  to
$112.7  million in 1996.  The  electronics  business was very strong in personal
computers,  tele-  and  data-communications  as  well  as  consumer  electronics
throughout the year.  Electronics sales enjoyed significant growth Asia-Pacific,
Europe and North America in 1997.  Automotive  sales increased $8.4 million or 9
percent to $102.8 million in 1997 compared to $94.4 million in 1996.  Automotive
sales were very strong in the OEM markets,  while they declined  slightly in the
automotive  aftermarkets on a worldwide  basis.  Power fuse sales increased $2.7
million or 8 percent to $37.0 million in 1997 compared to $34.4 million in 1996.
The  company  believes  that its power fuse  business  grew twice as fast as the
underlying markets for capital equipment and construction spending during 1997.

The  company's  business is dependent on general  economic  conditions  in North
America,  Europe and  Asia-Pacific.  The  company's  electronic  and  automotive
product sales fluctuate with the trends in their respective end-product markets,
while power fuse sales are dependent on conditions  within the  construction and
capital  equipment   markets.   North  American  and  Asia-  Pacific  sales  are
denominated  primarily  in  US  dollars,  while  European  sales  generally  are
denominated in Dutch guilders or British pounds.  On a constant  currency basis,
our European  sales growth would have been 16 percent  rather than the 5 percent
reported,  our Asia-Pacific  sales growth would have been 36 percent rather than
the 32 percent  reported,  and our consolidated  sales growth would have been 16
percent rather than the 14 percent reported.

Gross  profit was 40.4% at $111.1  million  for 1997  compared to 40.7% at $98.3
million  in 1996.  The gross  margin  decline of 32 basis  points was  primarily
caused by the lower  margins  of our new China and  Korean  operations  having a
greater impact than our margin improvements due to cost reductions and spreading
our fixed costs over higher sales in North America and Europe.  Margins for both
the automotive and power fuse product  segments  improved during 1997, while the
margins for the  electronic  segment  declined  slightly  primarily due to lower
Asia-Pacific  margins.  Auto margins  improved due to favorable  mix as the fuse
portion  of  automotive  OEM  sales  grew to about 94  percent  of sales in 1997
compared to about 90 percent of sales in 1996.

Selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses  were  21.9% of sales  for 1997
compared to 22.2% for 1996, with selling expenses  accounting for  approximately
three-fifths  of the expenses.  The 34 basis point decrease was due primarily to
fixed selling  expenses being spread over higher sales.  The increase in general
and  administrative  expense  was  due  primarily  to  the  installation  of new
information  systems.  The decrease in research and development was due to lower
legal patent expense. Amortization of reorganization value and other intangibles
was 2.6% of sales for 1997 compared to 2.9% the prior year. The total  operating
expenses including intangible amortization were 24.5% of sales for 1997 compared
to 25.1% of sales for 1996.

Operating income for 1997 after the intangible amortization was $43.7 million or
15.9% of sales  compared to $37.7 million or 15.6% of sales the prior year. On a
constant  currency  basis,  Europe's  operating  income was unchanged  since the
currency  translation  losses  were  offset  by  currency  translation  gains on
intercompany   transactions   with  the  US.  On  a  constant   currency  basis,
Asia-Pacific's  operating  income was  reduced  since the  currency  translation
losses were additive to the translation losses on the intercompany transactions.
The Asia- Pacific  operating  income would have been $0.5 million more and taxes
would have been $0.3 million less on a constant currency basis.

Interest expense was $4.1 million for 1997 compared to $4.2 million for 1996 due
to declining  debt levels  during the year.  Other  income,  net,  consisting of
royalties, minority interest adjustments,  revaluation of the Korean non-compete
agreement and government  grants,  was $1.0 million compared to $0.7 million the
prior year.

Income before taxes was $40.7 million in 1997 compared to $34.1 million in 1996.
Income tax expense was $15.3 million in 1997 compared to $12.4 million the prior
year.  The company's  effective tax rate was 37 2/3% in 1997 compared to 36 1/4%
in 1996.  Net income for the year was $25.3  million in 1997  compared  to $21.7
million the prior year. Diluted earnings per share (split adjusted) increased to
$1.07 in 1997 compared to $0.91 in 1996.

EBITDA  grew $5.7  million  or 10% to $65.1  million in 1997  compared  to $59.4
million in 1996. EBITDA was 23.7% of sales in 1997 compared to 24.6% of sales in
1996.  EBITDA  for 1997  consisted  of the  reported  operating  income of $43.8
million plus other income of $1.0 million,  depreciation  of $13.2 million,  and
amortization of intangibles of $7.2 million.


1996 Compared with 1995

Sales  increased  10 percent to $241.4  million in 1996 from  $219.5  million in
1995.  The gross margin was 40.7% compared to 40.9% the prior year and operating
income was 15.6% of net sales compared to 15.4% the prior year. EBITDA was $59.4
million compared to $52.4 million in 1995. As a result,  the company during 1996
was able to invest $17.1 million in capital improvements and to repurchase $26.8
million of its warrants and common stock,  while only  increasing  its debt $3.7
million.

Sales increased $21.9 million during 1996. The sales growth was strongest in the
automotive  segment,  followed by electronics and power fuses.  Electronic sales
increased $8.9 million or 9 percent to $112.7 million in 1996 compared to $103.8
million  in  1995.  The  electronics   business  was  very  strong  in  consumer
electronics and  datacommunications all year. This resulted in very strong sales
growth in Japan for the year. However,  the electronics  business was relatively
weak in personal computers, telecommunications and general industrial until late
in the year.  Automotive  sales  increased  $11.0 million or 13 percent to $94.4
million in 1996  compared to $83.4 million in 1995.  Automotive  sales were very
strong  in  Europe  for the year and  automotive  OEM  markets  were  relatively
stronger  than  automotive  aftermarkets  all year in North  America and Europe.
Power fuse sales  increased  $2.0 million or 6 percent to $34.4  million in 1996
compared  to $32.4  million in 1995.  The company  believes  that its power fuse
business grew slightly faster than the underlying  markets for capital equipment
and  construction  spending  during 1996. The company's  reported sales in North
America  increased 6 percent during 1996, while its sales in Europe increased 11
percent,  and its sales in  Asia-Pacific  increased  28  percent.  On a constant
currency  basis our European sales growth would have been 15 percent rather than
the 11 percent  reported  and our  consolidated  sales growth would have been 11
percent rather than the 10 percent reported.

Gross  profit was 40.7% at $98.3  million  for 1996  compared  to 40.9% at $89.9
million  in 1995.  The gross  margin  decline of 20 basis  points was  primarily
caused by the  relatively  low  margins of our new China and  Korean  operations
having a greater impact than our margin  improvements due to cost reductions and
spreading our fixed costs over higher sales in North America and Europe. Margins
for both the automotive and power fuse product  segments  improved  during 1996,
while the margins for the electronic  segment declined slightly primarily due to
lower volume than  planned.  Auto margins  improved due to favorable  mix as the
fuse portion of  automotive  OEM sales grew to about 90 percent of sales in 1996
compared to about 80 percent of sales in 1995.

Selling,  general  and  administrative  expenses  were  22.2% of sales  for 1996
compared to 22.6% for 1995, with selling expenses  accounting for  approximately
three-fifths of the expenses. The 40 basis point decrease was due to the general
and administrative expense increase of 20 basis points being more than offset by
the  research  and  development  decrease of 60 basis  points.  The  increase in
general and administrative  expense was due primarily to the installation of new
information  systems.  The decrease in research and development was due to lower
project and patent  expenses.  Amortization  of  reorganization  value and other
intangibles  was 2.9% of sales for 1996  compared  to 3.0% the prior  year.  The
total operating expenses including  intangible  amortization were 25.1% of sales
for 1996 compared to 25.6% of sales for 1995.

Operating income for 1996 after the intangible amortization was $37.7 million or
15.6% of sales  compared to $33.7 million or 15.4% of sales the prior year. On a
constant  currency basis,  Europe's increase in operating income would have been
$0.5 million higher.  Therefore,  currency  changes reduced  Europe's  operating
income  about 4  percent  and  reduced  consolidated  operating  income  about 1
percent.

Interest  expense was $4.2  million for 1996  compared to $4.3 million for 1995.
Interest rates declined slightly and debt increased  slightly year over year due
to the stock and warrant  repurchase  program.  Other  income,  net,  consisting
primarily  of minority  interest  adjustments  and  royalties,  was $0.7 million
compared to $0.4 million the prior year.

Income before taxes was $34.1 million in 1996 compared to $29.9 million in 1995.
Income tax expense was $12.4 million in 1996 compared to $10.6 million the prior
year.  The company's  effective tax rate was 36 1/4% in 1996 compared to 35 1/2%
in 1995.  Net income for the year was $21.7  million in 1996  compared  to $19.3
million the prior year. Diluted earnings per share (split adjusted) increased to
$0.91 in 1996 compared to $0.78 in 1995, in part because the company's stock and
warrant repurchase program reduced the number of shares outstanding.

EBITDA grew $7.0 million or 13 1/2% to $59.4  million in 1996  compared to $52.4
million in 1995. EBITDA was 24.6% of sales in 1996 compared to 23.8% of sales in
1995 -- an  improvement  of 80 basis  points.  EBITDA for 1996  consisted of the
reported  operating  income of $37.7  million plus other income of $0.7 million,
depreciation of $14.0 million, and amortization of intangibles of $7.0 million.


Geographical Business Segments

During  the last five  years,  the  company's  international  sales  have  grown
dramatically as a result of increased  Asia-Pacific  and European sales efforts,
new product  introductions,  and  generally  strong  Asia-Pacific  and  European
economies.  International  sales  increased 20% in 1997 compared to 20% in 1996,
32% in 1995 and 35% in 1994. USA sales growth was 10 percent in 1997 compared to
5 percent in 1996, 5 percent in 1995 and 16 percent in 1994.  Over the last five
years  international  sales have  increased at a  compounded  annual rate of 23%
versus a USA sales compounded annual growth rate of 8 1/4%.

The geographic area of greatest sales growth during the past five years has been
the Asia Pacific region. Sales growth in Europe has averaged higher than in the
U.S.A. International sales grew to 40.6% of net sales in 1997 compared to 38.5 %
of net sales in 1996, 35.3% of net sales in 1995 and 30.1% of net sales in 1994.

The  following  table   summarizes   sales  based  upon  destination  and  total
international sales compared to total company net sales (in thousands):
<TABLE>


                                                       1997              1996              1995               1994
                                            ---------------- ----------------- ----------------- ------------------

<S>                                                <C>               <C>               <C>                <C>     
USA Destinations                                   $163,539          $148,588          $142,070           $135,865

Other Americas                                        9,775             8,009             6,398              6,144

Europe                                               39,949            38,077            34,448             25,017

Asia-Pacific & other                                 61,902            46,772            36,619             27,428
                                            ---------------- ----------------- ----------------- ------------------

Total company sales                                $275,165          $241,446          $219,535           $194,454
                                           ================ ================= ================= ==================
                                            

Total international sales                          $111,626           $92,858           $77,465            $58,589
                                            ================ ================= ================= ==================
                          


As percent of total company sales                     40.6%             38.5%             35.3%              30.1%
                                            ================ ================= ================= ==================
</TABLE>
                                            


Liquidity and Capital Resources

Assuming no material adverse changes in market  conditions,  management  expects
that the company will have  sufficient  cash from operations to support both its
operations and its debt  obligations for the foreseeable  future.  Approximately
eighty  percent of the company's  sales are  denominated  in US dollars with the
balance primarily in two European currencies, Dutch guilders and British pounds,
and in one Asian  currency,  Korean won. Since over seventy  percent of European
costs also are in European currencies and the rest of Europe's and the company's
costs  predominately are denominated in US dollars,  the company has decided not
to hedge its monetary  assets,  liabilities  or  commitments  at this time.  The
company did not have any foreign exchange derivative positions at year end 1997.

Littelfuse  started  1997  with  $1.4  million  of cash.  Net cash  provided  by
operations was $36.8 million for the year.  Cash used to invest in net property,
plant and equipment  was $18.9  million,  to invest in a new Korean  acquisition
called  Samjoo  was $5.3  million  and to make a  non-compete  payment  was $0.4
million.  Cash used in financing  activities  included net payments of long term
debt of $5.2 million.  The purchase of the  company's  warrants and common stock
for $8.6  million was  partially  offset by cash  proceeds  from the exercise of
stock  options of $1.0 million.  The effect of exchange  rate changes  decreased
cash by $0.1 million.  The net of cash provided by  operations,  less  investing
activities,  less  financing  activities,  plus the  effect  of  exchange  rates
resulted in an $0.6 million net  decrease in cash.  This left the company with a
cash balance of $0.8 million at the end of 1997.

Net working capital used $9.4 million of cash flow from operations for 1997. All
asset  categories  used working  capital.  Accounts  receivable  increased  $3.3
million and inventory  increased $8.3 million.  Most accruals  provided  working
capital  for the year.  Accounts  payable,  accrued  payroll,  and  accrued  and
deferred  taxes each  increased  by a little less than $1 million  and  provided
funds over $2.5 million.  Accrued expenses  declined $0.6 million using funds of
that amount. Net working capital changes in 1998 probably will result in a small
use of cash, as the company  expects  current asset  increases to exceed current
liability increases in 1998.

Littelfuse  started  1996  with  $1.3  million  of cash.  Net cash  provided  by
operations was $40.3 million for the year, a significant  improvement over 1995.
Cash used to invest in net  property,  plant and equipment was $17.1 million and
to  make a  non-compete  payment  was  $0.3  million.  Cash  used  in  financing
activities  included  net  borrowings  of long  term debt of $4.2  million.  The
purchase  of the  company's  warrants  and common  stock for $26.8  million  was
partially  offset by cash  proceeds  from the exercise of stock  options of $0.3
million. The effect of exchange rate changes decreased cash by $0.4 million. The
net of cash provided by operations,  less investing  activities,  less financing
activities,  plus the effect of exchange  rates  resulted in an $0.1 million net
increase in cash.  This left the company  with a cash balance of $1.4 million at
the end of 1996.

Net working  capital  used only $1.3  million of cash flow from  operations  for
1996. All asset categories used working capital, except prepaid expenses,  which
declined $0.4 million.  Accounts receivable increased $5.6 million and inventory
increased $1.8 million.  All accruals provided working capital for the year. The
greatest  benefit in 1996 compared to 1995 came from large  increases in accrued
taxes of $2.4 million.  Accounts payable,  accrued payroll, and accrued expenses
each increased by about $1.0 million and provided funds of almost $2.9 million.

The company's capital  expenditures were $18.9 million in 1997, $17.1 million in
1996 and $14.6 million in 1995.  The company  expects that capital  expenditures
will be  approximately  $22 million or 7.3% of sales in 1998 compared to 6.9% of
sales in 1997,  7.1% in 1996 and 6.7% in 1995. The primary  purposes for capital
expenditures  are for capacity  expansion and new product tooling and production
equipment.  As in 1996, capital expenditures in 1997 are expected to be financed
by cash flow from operations.

The company  decreased total debt $5.2 million in 1997, after increasing debt by
$4.2 million in 1996 and  increasing  debt by $17.1 million in 1995. The company
is required to repay $9.0  million of long-term  debt in 1998.  The company also
repurchased 210,000 warrants and 205,000 common shares for $8.6 million in 1997,
1,342,000  warrants and 570,000  common  shares for $26.8  million in 1996,  and
220,000 common shares for $3.5 million in 1995.

Net  working  capital  (working  capital  less cash and the  current  portion of
long-term  debt),  as a percent of sales was 15.1% at year-end  1997 compared to
13.0%  at  year-end  1996  and to  12.7% at  year-end  1995.  The days  sales in
receivables  was  approximately  52 days at year-end 1997 compared to 52 days at
year-end 1996 and 51 days at year-end  1995.  This was excellent  performance as
our  international  sales  increased  but our  days  sales  outstanding  did not
increase.  The days inventory  outstanding was approximately 89 days at year-end
1997 compared to 79 days at year-end 1996 and 89 days at year-end 1995. The days
inventory  outstanding increase in 1997 of 10 days or about $4.0 million was due
to new products such as electronic resettables and power fuse indicator product.

The ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 1.6 to 1 at year-end 1997
compared to 1.4 to 1 at year-end 1996 and 1.4 to 1 at year-end  1995.  The ratio
of long-term  debt to equity was 0.3 to 1 at year-end  1997 compared to 0.4 to 1
at year-end 1996 and 1995.

Long-term  debt at year-end 1997  consisted of five types of debt totaling $50.6
million.  They are as follows:  (1) senior notes due August 2000, totaling $27.0
million, (2) US revolver borrowings totaling $20.0 million, (3) foreign revolver
borrowings totaling $2.3 million, (4) notes payable relating to an agreement not
to compete totaling $0.5 million,  and (5) mortgage notes totaling $0.8 million.
These five items include $10.2  million of senior notes,  non-compete  notes and
mortgage notes, which are considered to be current liabilities, resulting in net
long-term  debt  totaling  $40.4  million at the end of the year.  The  revolver
carried an interest rate of LIBOR + 0.5% during 1997 or approximately  6.4%. The
company expects the interest rate paid on the bank debt to be approximately  the
same  during the first half of 1998.  The  company at the end of 1997 had unused
revolver availability of $45.0 million. In addition, the company had outstanding
letters of credit totaling $1.8 million at year-end 1997.

On April  25,  1997  the  company  announced  that its  Board of  Directors  had
authorized the company to repurchase up to 2,000,000  shares of its common stock
or 2,000,000 of its warrants,  or any combination not to exceed 2,000,000 shares
of common stock and warrants,  from time to time depending on market conditions.
The  company  repurchased  105,000  common  shares  since the  April  25,  1997,
authorization through year-end 1997.

On April 25, 1997, the Company's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one stock
split to stockholders  of record on May 20, 1997,  payable June 10, 1997, in the
form of a stock  dividend.  All prior year number of share and per share amounts
have been restated to reflect the stock split.


Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

In June 1997, the Financial  Accounting  Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement
of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No. 130,  "Reporting  Comprehensive
Income" (SFAS 130). SFAS 130 establishes  standards for reporting and display of
comprehensive income and its components in the financial statements. SFAS 130 is
effective for fiscal years  beginning after December 15, 1997. The company is in
the process of evaluating the specific  requirements  of SFAS 130.  However,  it
believes  the  adoption  of SFAS  130  will  have  no  impact  on the  company's
consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.

In June 1997,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 131  "Disclosures  about  Segments of an
Enterprise and Related  Information" (SFAS 131). SFAS 131 establishes  standards
for the way in  which  public  business  enterprises  report  information  about
operating segments in annual financial  statements and interim financial reports
issued to shareholders.  It also establishes  standards for related  disclosures
about products and services,  geographic areas, and major customers. SFAS 131 is
effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
1997.  Management  has evaluated  the  disclosure  requirements  of SFAS 131 and
believes that its adoption  will not have a significant  impact on the company's
reported segments.

Year 2000 Issues

Many currently installed computer systems and software programs,  including many
of those used by the  company,  are coded to accept only two digit  entries into
the date code  field.  Beginning  in the year 2000,  these date code fields will
need to accept four digit  entries to  distinguish  21st century dates from 20th
century dates.  Therefore,  the company's date critical functions related to the
year  2000  and  beyond,  such as  sales,  distribution,  purchasing,  inventory
control,  planning and replenishment,  facilities,  and financial systems may be
adversely  affected  unless  these  computer  systems  are or  become  year 2000
compliant.

The  company has hired two  outside  consulting  firms to assess the systems and
procedures and to inform us what actions will be needed to address our year 2000
issues.  The company  expects that the results of the  assessment  will indicate
that the company will have to replace or modify certain portions of its software
so that the company's  computer  systems will function  properly with respect to
dates in the year  2000 and  after.  Certain  software  used by the  company  is
licensed  from third party  vendors who have planned  releases  addressing  this
issue. Other software has been internally generated by the company.

We  currently  have in  excess  of one  million  dollars  in our  total  planned
expenditures for the next two years to address the year 2000 issues. The company
has the cash resources to increase this investment if our circumstances call for
a higher level of expenditure.


Outlook

Littelfuse has enjoyed  compounded  annual sales growth of 13% for the last five
years.  Although  Littelfuse  expects to  increase  market  share  during 1998 -
particularly  in the  electronics  segment  in  South  Asia and  Europe,  in the
automotive  segment in Europe,  and in the power fuse segment in North America -
the company  expects the sales  increases in 1998 to be lower than our last five
year  average.  We expect  sales  growth  to be  slower in the first and  fourth
quarter and stronger in the second and third quarter.

Littelfuse  expects  costs to  increase  modestly  in 1998.  Although  costs and
expenses will rise with inflationary pressures, the company's productivity gains
and continued control of spending should help to offset this pressure as we have
previously  succeeded  in doing.  The company  does expect  modest  gross margin
pressure from expenses related to the consolidation of the Korean operations and
the launching of new products  including the downsized  surface mount resettable
PTC  devices,  the  automotive  JCASE,  and the  electronic  SMT  fuse  and chip
protector.

The development of new products,  global  expansion,  and  reinvestment  for the
future are the cornerstones of Littelfuse's  growth strategy.  Accordingly,  the
company intends to continue its commitment to funding  research and development,
international sales and marketing activity, and investments in capital equipment
and operations improvements.

Littelfuse has significantly improved its return on net assets and its return on
capital  employed  the last five years.  The  company's  return on net  tangible
assets was 25.8% in 1997 compared to 25.0% in 1996 and 23.8% in 1995, or over 50
percent  better than the S&P 500 return on net tangible  assets.  The  company's
return on capital employed was 14.6% in 1997 compared to 13.3% in 1996 and 11.8%
in 1995, or over 25 percent better than the S&P 500 return on capital  employed.
These two comparisons demonstrate the company's ability to deliver above-average
returns on investment for its shareholders.


"Safe Harbor"  Statement under the Private  Securities  Litigation Reform Act of
1995 The  statements  under  "Outlook"  and the other  statements  which are not
historical  facts contained in this report are  forward-looking  statements that
involve risks and uncertainties,  including,  but not limited to, product demand
and market  acceptance risks, the effect of economic  conditions,  the impact of
competitive  products and pricing,  product development,  commercialization  and
technological difficulties, capacity and supply constraints or difficulties, the
results of financing efforts,  actual purchases under agreements,  the effect of
the company's accounting policies,  and other risks which may be detailed in the
company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.


<PAGE>


Report of Independent Auditors


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Littelfuse, Inc.

We  have  audited  the  consolidated   statements  of  financial   condition  of
Littelfuse,  Inc. and  subsidiaries as of January 3, 1998 and December 28, 1996,
and the related  consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders'  equity, and
cash  flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  January 3, 1998.
These financial  statements are the responsibility of the Company's  management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based
on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated  financial position of Littelfuse,  Inc.
and  subsidiaries  as of  January  3,  1998  and  December  28,  1996,  and  the
consolidated  results of their  operations  and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended January 3, 1998, in  conformity  with  generally
accepted accounting principles.




January 23, 1998

<PAGE>


                        Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                 Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
<TABLE>


                                                                        January 3 1998   December 28 1996
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                                 (In Thousands)
Assets
Current assets:
<S>                                                                        <C>               <C>
   Cash and cash equivalents                                               $       755       $    1,427
   Accounts receivable, less allowances (1997 -
     $5,899; 1996 - $5,057)                                                     37,458           35,468
   Inventories                                                                  39,075           31,586
   Deferred income taxes                                                         3,672            3,100
   Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                     2,896            2,228
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                       ------------------------------------
Total current assets                                                            83,856           73,809

Property, plant, and equipment:
   Land                                                                          6,355            5,383
   Buildings                                                                    23,152           19,271
   Equipment                                                                   111,723           96,657
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                               141,230          121,311
   Less:  Allowances for depreciation and amortization                          70,467           57,422
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                                70,763           63,889
Intangible assets, net of amortization:
   Reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable to
     identifiable assets                                                        41,202           44,635
   Patents and licenses                                                          8,785           11,102
   Distribution network                                                          7,126            7,935
   Trademarks                                                                    3,527            3,784
   Other                                                                         3,348            1,157
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                                63,988           68,613
Other assets                                                                     3,278            3,640
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                              $221,885         $209,951
                                                                       ====================================

</TABLE>


<PAGE>



                        Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

           Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition (continued)

<TABLE>

                                                                        January 3 1998   December 28 1996
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                                 (In Thousands)
Liabilities and shareholders' equity Current liabilities:
<S>                                                                          <C>              <C>
   Accounts payable                                                          $  13,858        $  12,775
   Accrued payroll                                                              10,316            9,330
   Accrued expenses                                                              7,427            8,159
   Accrued income taxes                                                          9,952           10,775
   Current portion of long-term debt                                            10,172           10,005
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                       ------------------------------------
Total current liabilities                                                       51,725           51,044

Long-term debt, less current portion                                            40,385           44,556
Deferred income taxes                                                            6,205            5,417
Minority interest in subsidiary                                                     65              312

Shareholders' equity:
   Preferred stock, par value $.01 per share:  1,000,000 shares
     authorized; no shares issued and outstanding                                    -                -
   Common stock, par value $.01 per share:  38,000,000 shares
     authorized; shares issued and outstanding, 1997 - 19,873,140;
     1996 - 19,775,358                                                             199              198
   Additional paid-in capital                                                   52,540           54,569
   Notes receivable - Common stock                                              (1,960)          (1,470)
   Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustment                           (4,767)            (870)
   Retained earnings                                                            77,493           56,195
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                               123,505          108,622
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                              $221,885         $209,951
                                                                       ====================================

See accompanying notes.
</TABLE>


<PAGE>
<TABLE>


                        Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                        Consolidated Statements of Income


                                                  Year ended             Year ended              Year ended
                                                  January 3              December 28             December 31
                                                   1998                   1996                     1995
                                                -----------------------------------------------------------
(In Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts)

<S>                                                    <C>                <C>                 <C>
Net sales                                              $275,165           $241,446            $219,535
Cost of sales                                           164,034            143,158             129,663
                                                -----------------------------------------------------------
                                                -----------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                                            111,131             98,288              89,872

Selling expenses                                         38,266             34,369              31,278
Research and development expenses                         7,927              7,330               7,901
General and administrative expenses                      13,960             11,912              10,334
Amortization of intangibles                               7,210              7,008               6,630
                                                -----------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                                         43,768             37,669              33,729

Interest expense                                          4,103              4,235               4,279
Other income, net                                          (987)              (660)               (430)
                                                -----------------------------------------------------------
                                                -----------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes                               40,652             34,094              29,880
Income taxes                                             15,310             12,359              10,608
                                                ===========================================================
Net income                                            $  25,342          $  21,735           $  19,272
                                                ===========================================================
                                                ===========================================================

Net income per share:
   Basic                                           $      1.28        $      1.09         $      0.95
   Diluted                                         $      1.07        $      0.91         $      0.78
                                                ===========================================================

See accompanying notes.
</TABLE>


<PAGE>
<TABLE>

                        Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


                                                         Year ended       Year ended        Year ended
                                                         January 3        December 28      December 31
                                                            1998             1996              1995
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
                                 (In Thousands)
Operating activities
<S>                                                         <C>               <C>              <C>
Net income                                                  $25,342           $21,735          $19,272
Adjustments  to  reconcile   net  income  to  net  cash  
provided  by  operating activities:
     Depreciation                                            13,184            14,057           11,569
     Amortization of intangibles                              7,210             7,008            6,630
     Provision for bad debts                                    410               236              160
     Deferred income taxes                                      215              (962)             (78)
     Minority interest                                         (159)             (411)             (61)
     Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
         Accounts receivable                                 (3,331)           (5,630)          (3,303)
         Inventories                                         (8,281)           (1,816)          (1,782)
         Accounts payable and accrued expenses
                                                              1,950             6,550            1,408
         Other, net                                             217              (424)           1,086
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by operating activities                    36,757            40,343           34,901

Investing activities
Purchases of property, plant, and
    equipment, net                                          (18,936)          (17,094)         (14,636)
Purchase of business                                         (5,268)                -                -
Other                                                          (357)             (341)            (276)
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
Net cash used in investing activities                       (24,561)          (17,435)         (14,912)

Financing activities
Proceeds (payments) of long-term debt, net                   (5,192)            4,196          (17,028)
Proceeds from exercise of stock options and warrants          1,055               276              570
Purchases of common stock and redemption of warrants         (8,642)          (26,845)          (3,533)
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
Net cash used in financing activities                       (12,779)          (22,373)         (19,991)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash                         (89)             (416)              48
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
                                                               (672)              119               46
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning
   of year                                                    1,427             1,308            1,262
                                                     ======================================================
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year                  $     755          $  1,427         $  1,308
                                                     ======================================================
See accompanying notes.

</TABLE>
<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                        Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity

                 Period from January 1, 1995 to January 3, 1998



                                                                                               Cumulative
                                                                                Notes      Foreign Currency
                                                              Additional     Receivable -    Translation
                                                    Common      Paid-in      Common Stock     Adjustment       Retained
                                                    Stock       Capital                                        Earnings      Total
                                               -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In Thousands)
<S>                                                  <C>        <C>         <C>              <C>               <C>         <C>
Balance at January 1, 1995                           $202       $70,484     $        -       $    (855)        $25,868     $ 95,699
Stock options and warrants exercised                    2         1,778           (571)              -               -        1,209
Purchase of 220,000 shares of common stock             (2)         (768)             -               -          (2,763)      (3,533)
Translation adjustment                                  -             -              -             735               -          735
Net income for the year                                 -             -              -               -          19,272       19,272
                                               -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 1995                          202        71,494           (571)           (120)         42,377      113,382
Stock options and warrants exercised                    2         1,997           (899)              -               -        1,100
Purchase of 570,260 shares of common stock             (6)       (1,986)             -               -          (7,917)      (9,909)
Redemption of 1,342,120 warrants                        -       (16,936)             -               -               -      (16,936)
Translation adjustment                                  -             -              -            (750)              -         (750)
Net income for the year                                 -             -              -                          21,735       21,735
                                               -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at December 28, 1996                          198        54,569         (1,470)           (870)         56,195      108,622
Stock options and warrants exercised                    3         2,567           (490)              -               -        2,080
Purchase of 205,000 shares of common stock             (2)         (720)             -               -          (4,044)      (4,766)
Redemption of 210,250 warrants                          -        (3,876)             -               -               -       (3,876)
Translation adjustment                                  -             -              -          (3,897)              -       (3,897)
Net income for the year                                 -             -              -               -          25,342       25,342
                                               =====================================================================================
Balance at January 3, 1998                           $199       $52,540        $(1,960)        $(4,767)        $77,493      $123,505
                                               =====================================================================================

See accompanying notes.
</TABLE>


<PAGE>




                        Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                     January 3, 1998 and December 28, 1996


1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Other Information

Nature of Operations

Littelfuse,  Inc. and its subsidiaries  (the Company) design,  manufacture,  and
sell  fuses and other  circuit  protection  devices  for use in the  automotive,
electronic,  and general  industrial  markets  throughout the world. The Company
also manufactures and supplies relays, switches, circuit breakers, and indicator
lights to the  automotive  industry  and to  appliance  and general  electronics
manufacturers.  The Company's operations represent a single industry segment for
accounting purposes.

Fiscal Year

Effective January 1, 1996, the Company changed its fiscal year end from December
31 to a  52-53-week  year  ending  on the  Saturday  nearest  December  31.  The
Company's  1997  fiscal  year ended  January  3, 1998  contained  53 weeks.  The
Company's 1996 fiscal year ended December 28, 1996 contained 52 weeks.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated  financial statements include the accounts of Littelfuse,  Inc.
and its  subsidiaries.  All significant  intercompany  accounts and transactions
have been eliminated.

Cash Equivalents

All highly  liquid  investments,  with a maturity  of three  months or less when
purchased, are considered to be cash equivalents.

Accounts Receivable

The Company performs credit  evaluations of customers'  financial  condition and
generally  does not require  collateral.  Credit  losses are provided for in the
financial   statements   and   consistently   have  been   within   management's
expectations.


Inventories

Inventories  are  stated at the lower of cost  (first in,  first out  method) or
market, which approximates current replacement cost.

Property, Plant, and Equipment

Land,  buildings,  and equipment are carried at cost.  Depreciation  is provided
under accelerated  methods using useful lives of 21 years for buildings,  7 to 9
years for  equipment,  and 7 years  for  furniture  and  fixtures.  Tooling  and
computer software are depreciated  using the  straight-line  method over 5 years
and 3 years, respectively.

Intangible Assets

Reorganization  value in excess of amounts allocable to identifiable  assets and
trademarks are amortized using the straight-line  method over 20 years.  Patents
are amortized using the straight-line  method over their estimated useful lives,
which average  approximately  10 years.  The  distribution  network is amortized
using an  accelerated  method over 20 years.  Licenses  are  amortized  using an
accelerated   method  over  their   estimated   useful   lives,   which  average
approximately  nine years.  Other  intangible  assets consist  principally of an
agreement not to compete that is being amortized over the three-year term of the
agreement  and  goodwill  that is being  amortized  over 20  years.  Accumulated
amortization  of these  intangible  assets was $39.9 million at January 3, 1998,
and $34.3 million at December 28, 1996.

Revenue Recognition

Sales  and  associated  costs  are  recognized  when  products  are  shipped  to
customers.

Advertising Costs

The  Company  expenses  advertising  costs as  incurred  which  amounted to $2.8
million in 1997, $2.7 million in 1996, and $3.1 million in 1995.



Foreign Currency Translation

The financial  statements of foreign entities have been translated in accordance
with  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 52 and,  accordingly,
unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected as a component
of shareholders' equity.



Per-Share Data

In February  1997,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  (FASB)  issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 128, "Earnings Per Share"
(SFAS 128).  SFAS 128 simplifies the standards for computing  earnings per share
and is effective for financial  statements  for both interim and annual  periods
ending  after  December  15,  1997.  The Company has adopted  SFAS 128,  and has
restated all prior periods  presented to conform with the  requirements  of SFAS
128.

Stock-Based Compensation

The Company  accounts for stock  option  grants to  employees  and  directors in
accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees  (APB No. 25). The Company  grants stock options for a fixed
number  of  shares  with an  exercise  price  equal to the  market  price of the
underlying stock at the date of grant and, accordingly, does not recognize
compensation expense.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial  statements in conformity  with generally  accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

In June 1997,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 130,  "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income"
(SFAS  130).  SFAS 130  establishes  standards  for  reporting  and  display  of
comprehensive income and its components in the financial statements. SFAS 130 is
effective for fiscal years  beginning after December 15, 1997. The Company is in
the process of evaluating the specific  requirements  of SFAS 130.  However,  it
believes  the  adoption  of SFAS  130  will  have  no  impact  on the  Company's
consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.

In June 1997,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 131  "Disclosures  about  Segments of an
Enterprise and Related  Information" (SFAS 131). SFAS 131 establishes  standards
for the way in  which  public  business  enterprises  report  information  about
operating segments in annual financial statements and interim financial reports
issued to shareholders.  It also establishes  standards for related  disclosures
about products and services,  geographic areas, and major customers. SFAS 131 is
effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
1997.  Management  has evaluated  the  disclosure  requirements  of SFAS 131 and
believes that its adoption  will not have a significant  impact on the Company's
reported segments.

Reclassifications

Certain amounts in the 1996 and 1995 financial statements have been reclassified
to conform with the 1997 financial statement presentation.

2.  Acquisition of Business

On May 30,  1997,  the  Company  invested  $5.3  million in  exchange  for a 97%
interest in Samjoo Elec.  Ind. Co. Ltd., a Korean fuse  manufacturer,  now doing
business as Littelfuse  Triad.  This  acquisition has been accounted for through
the use of the purchase  method of  accounting.  Accordingly,  the  accompanying
financial statements include the results of its operations since the acquisition
date.  Goodwill arising from this  acquisition of approximately  $2.9 million is
being  amortized over twenty years.  Pro forma results of  operations,  assuming
this acquisition had occurred as of January 1, 1996, would not differ materially
from reported results of operations.

3.  Inventories

The components of inventories are as follows at January 3, 1998 and December 28,
1996 (in thousands):
<TABLE>

                                                   1997              1996
                                            -------------------------------------
                                            -------------------------------------

<S>                                               <C>               <C>
Raw materials                                     $  8,788          $  8,411
Work in process                                      3,556             3,263
Finished goods                                      26,731            19,912
                                            -------------------------------------
                                            =====================================
                                                   $39,075           $31,586
                                            =====================================

</TABLE>

<PAGE>


4.  Long-Term Debt

The carrying  amounts of long-term debt,  which  approximate  fair value, are as
follows at January 3, 1998 and December 28, 1996 (in thousands):
<TABLE>

                                                   1997              1996
                                            -------------------------------------
                                            -------------------------------------

<S>                                                <C>               <C>
Senior Notes                                       $27,000           $36,000
Revolver                                            20,000            16,500
Other                                                3,557             2,061
                                            -------------------------------------
                                            -------------------------------------
                                                    50,557            54,561
Less:  Current maturities                           10,172            10,005
                                            =====================================
                                                   $40,385           $44,556
                                            =====================================
</TABLE>

The Company has an unsecured  financing  arrangement  consisting of Senior Notes
with  insurance  companies  and a Credit  Agreement  with banks that  provides a
$65,000,000  revolving  loan  facility.  The  Senior  Notes  require  a  minimum
principal payment of $9,000,000 annually.  The first payment was made August 30,
1996.  Additional  principal  payments  will be made each year through  2000. No
principal  payments are required for  borrowings  against the revolving  line of
credit until the line matures on August 31, 2000. A commitment  fee on the daily
unborrowed  portion  of the  revolving  credit  line is based  on the  Company's
debt-to-capital ratio, and is payable quarterly. The Company can make additional
prepayments under the Credit Agreement at any time without penalty.

Interest  is payable  semiannually  on the Senior  Notes at 6.31%.  Interest  is
payable  quarterly  under  the  Credit  Agreement  borrowings  at  LIBOR  plus a
Eurodollar margin.  The Eurodollar margin,  which is based on the Company's debt
to capital  ratio,  amounted to .5% at January 3, 1998.  The Company's  interest
rate under the Credit Agreement was 6.41% at January 3, 1998.

The Credit Agreement  provides for letters of credit of up to $3 million as part
of the available credit under the revolving line of credit.  At January 3, 1998,
the Company had $1.9 million of  outstanding  letters of credit.  The Company is
required  to pay a fee of .625% of the face  amount  of each  letter  of  credit
issued.

The Senior  Notes and Credit  Agreement  contain  covenants  that,  among  other
matters, impose limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, future
mergers,  sales of assets,  payment of  dividends,  and changes in  control,  as
defined.  In  addition,  the Company is required  to satisfy  certain  financial
covenants and tests relating to, among other matters, interest coverage, working
capital, leverage, and net worth.



<PAGE>


4.  Long-Term Debt (continued)

Aggregate  maturities of long-term  debt at January 3, 1998,  are as follows (in
thousands):

1998                     $10,172
1999                      10,002
2000                      29,372
2001                         244
2002 and thereafter          767
                     ===================
                         $50,557
                     ===================

Interest paid on long-term  debt  approximated  $4.0 million in 1997,  1996, and
1995.

5.  Benefit Plans

The Company has a defined-benefit pension plan (the Plan) covering substantially
all of its North American  employees.  The amount of the  retirement  benefit is
based on years of service and final average  monthly pay. The Plan also provides
postretirement medical benefits to retirees and their spouses if the retiree has
reached  age 62 and has  provided  at  least  ten  years  of  service  prior  to
retirement.  Such benefits  generally cease once the retiree attains age 65. The
Company's  contributions are made in amounts sufficient to satisfy ERISA funding
requirements.

The components of pension cost are as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>

                                                                     1997          1996          1995
                                                                -------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>           <C>
Service cost - Benefits earned during the period                     $1,657        $1,669        $1,056
Interest cost on projected benefit obligation                         2,654         2,558         2,055
Actual return on plan assets                                         (6,365)       (3,810)       (6,512)
Net amortization and deferral                                         3,832         1,705         4,933
                                                                -------------------------------------------
                                                                ===========================================
Total pension cost                                                   $1,778        $2,122        $1,532
                                                                ===========================================

</TABLE>

<PAGE>


5.  Benefit Plans (continued)

Substantially  all Plan  assets are  invested  in listed  stocks and bonds.  The
funded status and amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial
condition  at  January  3,  1998 and  December  28,  1996,  are as  follows  (in
thousands): <TABLE>

                                                                             1997              1996
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                       ------------------------------------
Actuarial present value of benefit obligations:
<S>                                                                          <C>              <C>
   Vested benefit obligation                                                 $ 29,754         $ 26,267
                                                                       ====================================

   Accumulated benefit obligation                                            $ 32,426         $ 29,366
                                                                       ====================================
                                                                       ====================================

Projected benefit obligation                                                 $(41,649)        $(37,385)
Plan assets at fair value                                                      39,703           34,381
Unrecognized net experience loss                                                4,094            5,866
Unrecognized prior service cost                                                   311              377
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                       ====================================
Pension asset recognized in the consolidated statements of
   financial condition                                                      $   2,459        $   3,239
                                                                       ====================================
</TABLE>


The following significant  assumptions were used in determining pension cost for
the years ended January 3, 1998, December 28, 1996, and December 31, 1995:
<TABLE>

                                                                1997            1996            1995
                                                          -------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                              <C>             <C>             <C>
Discount rate                                                    7.0%            7.5%            7.0%
Rate of increase in compensation levels                          4.5             4.5             4.5
Expected long-term rate of return on assets                      9.0             9.0             9.0
</TABLE>

The Company provides  additional  retirement benefits for certain key executives
through its  unfunded  Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Plan.  The charge to
expense for this plan  approximated  $832,000,  $747,000  and  $640,000 in 1997,
1996, and 1995, respectively.

The Company also maintains a 401(k) savings plan covering substantially all U.S.
employees.  The Company matches 50% of the employee's  annual  contributions for
the  first 4% of the  employee's  gross  wages.  Employees  vest in the  Company
contributions  after  two  years  of  service.  Company  matching  contributions
amounted  to  $523,000,   $457,000   and  $472,000  in  1997,   1996  and  1995,
respectively.


<PAGE>


6.  Shareholders' Equity

Stock Split

On April 29, 1997, the Company's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one stock
split to stockholders  of record on May 20, 1997,  payable June 10, 1997, in the
form of a stock  dividend.  All prior year number of share and per share amounts
have been restated to reflect the stock split.

Stock Purchase Warrants

Warrants to  purchase  3,815,582  shares of common  stock at $4.18 per share are
outstanding  at January 3, 1998.  The warrants are  exercisable at the option of
the holder at any time prior to December 27,  2001,  and are not callable by the
Company.

Stock Options

The Company has stock option plans  authorizing  the granting of both  incentive
and nonqualified  options and other stock of up to 2,200,000 shares to employees
and  directors.  The  stock  options  vest  over  a  five-year  period  and  are
exercisable  over a ten- year  period  commencing  from the date of  vesting.  A
summary of stock option information follows: <TABLE>

                                  1997                        1996                        1995
                      -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    Weighted-Average            Weighted-Average            Weighted-Average
                                    Exercise Price              Exercise Price              Exercise Price

                         Options                     Options                     Options
                      -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding at
<S>                     <C>              <C>        <C>             <C>          <C>            <C>
  beginning of year     1,257,380        $10.95     1,236,800       $  8.76      1,207,000      $  6.54
Granted                   274,300         25.29       251,400         18.40        237,600        16.35
Exercised                (156,170)         6.70      (174,900)         5.81       (197,200)        4.30
Forfeited                 (14,200)        15.69       (55,920)        10.43        (10,600)        9.59
                      =====================================================================================
Outstanding at end
  of year               1,361,310         14.28     1,257,380        $10.95      1,236,800      $  8.76
                      =====================================================================================
                      =====================================================================================

Exercisable at end
  of year                 671,126                     461,820                      332,100
Available for
  future grant            138,420                     398,520                      594,000
Weighted-average
  value of options
  granted                               $11.16                     $  9.31                     $  8.04

</TABLE>

<PAGE>


6.  Shareholders' Equity (continued)

As of January 3, 1998, the Company had the following outstanding options:
<TABLE>

                                                    Weighted-            Weighted-
          Exercise                Options            Average              Average            Options
            Price               Outstanding      Exercise Price       Remaining Life       Exercisable
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S> <C>       <C>                   <C>              <C>                    <C>                <C>
    $3.688 to $5.532                306,400          $  3.86                4.2                303,600
    $7.50 to $11.25                 228,200            10.18                5.9                157,440
    $11.625 to $12.625              121,350            11.94                6.3                 82,330
    $16.125 to $23.00               597,060            19.01                6.8                127,756
    $28.875 to $34.125              108,300            28.95                9.6                      -
</TABLE>

Disclosure  of pro forma  information  regarding  net  income and net income per
share is  required by  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 123,
Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation,  and has been  determined  as if the
Company had  accounted  for its stock options  granted in 1997,  1996,  and 1995
under the fair value method using the  Black-Scholes  option pricing model.  The
following assumptions were utilized in the valuation: <TABLE>

                                                            1997             1996              1995
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                          <C>               <C>               <C>
Risk-free interest rate                                      6.63%             6.76%             6.67%
Expected dividend yield                                         0%                0%                0%
Expected stock price volatility                              .195%             .265%             .273%
Expected life of options                                   8 years           8 years           8 years
</TABLE>

Had compensation  cost for the Company's stock options granted in 1997, 1996 and
1995  been  determined  based on the  fair  value at the  dates  of  grant,  the
Company's net income and net income per share would have been reduced to the pro
forma amounts indicated: <TABLE>

                                                            1997             1996              1995
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                    <C>                 <C>              <C>
Pro forma net income (in thousands of dollars)         $24,621             $21,340          $19,132
Pro forma basic net income per share                   $  1.24             $  1.08          $  0.95
Pro forma diluted net income per share                 $  1.04             $  0.90          $  0.78
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


6.  Shareholders' Equity (continued)

The  pro  forma  effect  on  net  income  for  1997,   1996,  and  1995  is  not
representative  of the pro forma effect on net income in future years as the pro
forma disclosures  reflect only the fair value of stock options granted in 1997,
1996, and 1995 and do not reflect the fair value of outstanding  options granted
prior to 1995.

Restricted Stock Plan

In 1997, the Company  established a Restricted Stock Plan for certain management
employees.  Under terms of the plan, up to 120,000 shares and equivalent  shares
of the Company's  common stock may be awarded in 1999 based on the attainment of
certain  financial  performance  targets.  The awarded  shares vest over various
dates through 2002. The charge to expense for the plan during 1997 was $340,000.

Notes Receivable - Common Stock

In 1995, the Company  established the Executive Loan Program under which certain
management  employees  may  obtain  interest-free  loans  from  the  Company  to
facilitate their exercise of stock options and payment of the related income tax
liabilities.  Such loans,  limited to 90% of the exercise price plus related tax
liabilities,  have a five-year maturity, subject to acceleration for termination
or  death  of  the  employee.  Such  loans  are  classified  as a  reduction  of
shareholder's equity.

Preferred Stock

The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance from time to time of Preferred
Stock in one or more series with such designations, preferences, qualifications,
limitations, restrictions, and optional or other special rights as the Board may
fix by  resolution.  In connection  with the Rights Plan, the Board of Directors
has reserved, but not issued, 200,000 shares of preferred stock.

Treasury Shares

During 1997, the Company elected to constructively retire shares of common stock
held  in  treasury.  For  financial  statement  presentation,  the  constructive
retirement has been retroactively applied.


<PAGE>


6.  Shareholders' Equity (continued)

Rights Plan

In December 1995, the Company adopted a shareholder  rights plan providing for a
dividend  distribution  of one preferred  share purchase right for each share of
common stock  outstanding  on and after  December  15,  1995.  The rights can be
exercised  only if an individual  or group  acquires or announces a tender offer
for 15% or more of the Company's common stock and warrants.  If the rights first
become  exercisable as a result of an announced  tender offer,  each right would
entitle the holder to buy 1/200th of a share of a new series of preferred  stock
at an exercise price of $67.50. Once an individual or group acquires 15% or more
of the  Company's  common  stock,  each right held by such  individual  or group
becomes void and the remaining rights will then entitle the holder to purchase a
number of common shares having a market value of twice the exercise price of the
right.  If the  attempted  takeover  succeeds,  each right will then entitle the
holder to purchase a number of the  acquiring  Company's  common shares having a
market value of twice the exercise  price of the right.  After an  individual or
group  acquires 15% of the  Company's  common stock and before they acquire 50%,
the Company's Board of Directors may exchange the rights in whole or in part, at
an  exchange  ratio of one share of common  stock or 1/200th of a share of a new
series of preferred stock per right.  Before an individual or group acquires 15%
of the Company's common stock, or a majority of the Company's Board of Directors
are  removed  by  written  consent,  whichever  occurs  first,  the  rights  are
redeemable for $.01 per right at the option of the Company's Board of Directors.
The Company's Board of Directors is authorized to reduce the 15% threshold to no
less than 10%.  Each right will  expire on December  15,  2005,  unless  earlier
redeemed by the Company.

7.  Income Taxes

Federal,  state,  and foreign  income tax expense  consists of the following (in
thousands):
<TABLE>

                                                            1997             1996              1995
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
Current:
<S>                                                        <C>                 <C>            <C>
   Federal                                                 $  7,845            $7,091         $  5,552
   State                                                      1,859             1,440              815
   Foreign                                                    5,391             4,790            4,319
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
                                                             15,095            13,321           10,686
Deferred (credit):
   Federal                                                        5              (872)              21
   Foreign                                                      210               (90)             (99)
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
                                                                215              (962)             (78)
                                                     ======================================================
                                                            $15,310           $12,359          $10,608
                                                     ======================================================

</TABLE>

<PAGE>


7.  Income Taxes (continued)

Domestic and foreign income before income taxes is as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>

                                                            1997             1996              1995
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                         <C>               <C>              <C>
Domestic                                                    $26,494           $21,299          $15,908
Foreign                                                      14,158            12,795           13,972
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
                                                     ======================================================
                                                            $40,652           $34,094          $29,880
                                                     ======================================================
</TABLE>

A reconciliation  between income taxes computed on income before income taxes at
the federal  statutory rate and the provision for income taxes is provided below
(in thousands): <TABLE>

                                                            1997             1996              1995
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                        <C>               <C>              <C>
Tax expense at statutory rate of 35%                        $14,228           $11,933          $10,458
State and local taxes, net of federal tax benefit             1,208               936              530
Foreign income taxes                                           (705)             (181)            (482)
Foreign losses for which no tax benefit is available            974               703                -
Other, net                                                     (395)           (1,032)             102
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
                                                     ======================================================
                                                            $15,310           $12,359          $10,608
                                                     ======================================================
</TABLE>

Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effects of temporary  differences
between the financial  reporting bases and the tax bases of the Company's assets
and liabilities. Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and
liabilities  at January  3, 1998 and  December  28,  1996,  are as  follows  (in
thousands): <TABLE>

                                                                             1997              1996
                                                                       ------------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities

<S>                                                                            <C>              <C>
Tax over book depreciation and amortization                                    $4,740           $3,200
Prepaid expenses                                                                1,346            1,588
Other                                                                             639              632
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                       ------------------------------------
Total deferred tax liabilities                                                  6,725            5,420

Deferred tax assets
Accrued expenses                                                                3,146            2,373
Foreign net operating loss carryforwards                                        1,820              703
Other                                                                           1,045              730
                                                                       ------------------------------------
Total deferred tax assets                                                       6,011            3,806
Less:  Valuation allowance                                                     (1,820)            (703)
                                                                       ------------------------------------
Net deferred tax assets                                                         4,191            3,103
                                                                       ====================================
                                                                       ====================================
Net deferred tax liabilities                                                   $2,534           $2,317
                                                                       ====================================

</TABLE>

<PAGE>


7.  Income Taxes (continued)

The  deferred  tax asset  valuation  allowance is related to deferred tax assets
from foreign net operating  losses.  The net operating loss  carryforwards  will
expire at various dates through the year 2002.  The Company paid income taxes of
$14.0 million in 1997, $9.0 million in 1996, and $9.3 million in 1995.

8.  Business Segment and Geographical Information

The Company  operates in one  business  segment,  circuit  protection.  Products
include electronic, automotive and power fuses which serve customers worldwide.

The Company operates in three principal geographic areas: North America,  Europe
and Asia Pacific. A summary of the Company's  operations by area is presented
below:
<TABLE>

                                                            1997             1996              1995
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
                                                               (In Thousands)
Net sales:
<S>                                                         <C>               <C>              <C>
   North America                                            $174,097          $158,049         $147,973
   Europe                                                     40,096            38,243           34,784
   Asia Pacific                                               60,972            45,154           36,778
                                                     ======================================================
                                                            $275,165          $241,446         $219,535
                                                     ======================================================

Operating income:
   North America                                           $  33,227         $  28,553        $  24,516
   Europe                                                     11,352             9,210            8,956
   Asia Pacific                                                6,399             6,914            6,887
   Corporate                                                  (7,210)           (7,008)          (6,630)
                                                     ======================================================
                                                           $  43,768         $  37,669        $  33,729
                                                     ======================================================

Identifiable assets:
   North America                                            $112,462          $100,537        $  98,588
   Europe                                                     23,442            23,310           17,800
   Asia Pacific                                               17,960            12,424            7,242
   Corporate                                                  68,021            73,680           80,242
                                                     ======================================================
                                                            $221,885          $209,951         $203,872
                                                     ======================================================
</TABLE>

Corporate  assets  consist  primarily of cash,  intangible  assets,  and prepaid
pension costs.  Corporate  operating  expense  consists of the  amortization  of
intangible assets.

The Company's Asia Pacific sales and operating  income include export sales from
the United States and Europe into the region.  The  Company's  export sales from
the United States amounted to approximately $22.0 million in 1997, $19.6 million
in 1996, and $11.7 million in 1995.

9.  Lease Commitments

The Company  leases  certain  office and  warehouse  space  under  noncancelable
operating  leases,  as well as certain  machinery and equipment.  Rental expense
under these leases was  approximately  $1.3 million in 1997 and 1996 and $1.0 in
1995.  Future  minimum  payments  for all  noncancelable  operating  leases with
initial  terms  of one year or more at  January  3,  1998,  are as  follows  (in
thousands):

1998                            $509
1999                             365
2000                              93
2001                               2
2002 and thereafter               -
                          -------------------
                                $969
                          ===================
<PAGE>

10.  Earnings Per Share

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
share:
<TABLE>

                                                            1997             1996              1995
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------
                                                               (In Thousands)
Numerator:
<S>                                                          <C>               <C>              <C>
   Net income                                                $25,342           $21,735          $19,272
Denominator:
   Denominator for basic earnings per share -
     Weighted average shares                                  19,824            19,888           20,207
Effect of dilutive securities:
   Warrants                                                    3,335             3,520            4,081
   Employee stock options and restricted
     shares                                                      464               393              642
                                                     ======================================================
Denominator for diluted earnings per share -
   Adjusted weighted average shares and
   assumed conversions                                       $23,623           $23,801          $24,930
                                                     ======================================================
Basic earnings per share                                  $   1.28          $   1.09         $   0.95
                                                     ======================================================
Diluted earnings per share                                $   1.07          $   0.91         $   0.78
                                                     ======================================================
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

<TABLE>

Selected Financial Data
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<CAPTION>


Six Year Summary
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
($ In Thousands, Except Per-Share Data)
                                             1997           1996           1995          1994           1993           1992
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>            <C>            <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>
Net sales                                     $275,165       $241,446       $219,535      $194,454       $160,712       $149,832
Gross profit                                   111,131         98,288         89,872        77,416         62,588         51,485
Operating income                                43,768         37,669         33,729        27,846         19,359         10,756
Net income                                      25,342         21,735         19,272        15,227          9,987            654
Net income per share- Diluted                     1.07           0.91           0.78          0.63           0.42           0.03

Net working capital                           $ 41,548       $ 31,343       $ 27,963      $ 25,061       $ 17,641       $ 21,855
Total assets                                   221,885        209,951        205,186       199,328        193,294        197,749
Long-term debt                                  40,385         44,556         40,804        60,344         80,906        100,965
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<CAPTION>

Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
($ In Thousands, Except Per-Share Data)
                                                         1997                                        1996
                             4Q             3Q             2Q            1Q                4Q        3Q          2Q          1Q
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                      <C>            <C>            <C>                 <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Net sales                $ 70,761       $ 68,993       $ 69,828        $ 65,583        $ 61,042    $ 60,483    $ 60,843    $ 59,078
Gross profit               27,843         27,860         28,609          26,819          24,794       24,535      24,847     24,112
Operating income           10,196         11,220         11,770          10,582           9,576        9,633       9,574      8,886
Net income                  5,767          6,412          6,896           6,267           5,499        5,575       5,436      5,225
Net income per share:
    Basic                    0.29           0.32           0.35            0.32            0.28         0.28        0.27       0.26
    Diluted                  0.24           0.27           0.29            0.27            0.23         0.24        0.23       0.21
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


<CAPTION>

Quarterly Stock Price
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       1997                                         1996
                               4Q             3Q             2Q            1Q            4Q         3Q          2Q          1Q
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                         <C>  <C>       <C>  <C>       <C>  <C>       <C>           <C>  <C>    <C>  <C>     <C>         <C>  <C>
High                        35 1/2         34 1/2         28 1/2         25            24 1/3      19 7/8       20          19 1/4
Low                         21 3/4         27 1/4         22             22 1/8        19 1/2      16 3/8       18          16 3/8
Close                       25 1/2         33 7/8         27             23 1/8        24 1/4      19 3/8       18 3/4      18 7/8

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>10
<TEXT>


                                                                  Exhibit 23.1


                         Consent of Independent Auditors


We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of Littelfuse,  Inc. of our report dated January 23, 1998,  included in the 1997
annual Report to Stockholders of Littelfuse, Inc.

Our audit also included the financial  statement  schedule of  Littelfuse,  Inc.
listed in Item 14(a).  This  schedule  is the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In
our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered
in relation to the basic financial  statements taken as a whole,  present fairly
in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(No.  33-55943,  33-64442,  33-95020,  and  333-03260) on Form S-8 of our report
dated January 23, 1998, with respect to the  consolidated  financial  statements
incorporated  herein by  reference,  and our report  included  in the  preceding
paragraph  with respect to the  financial  statement  schedule  included in this
Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Littelfuse, Inc.



Chicago, Illinois
March 24, 1998

                                                        /S/  Ernst & Young LLP

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
