-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 GkhZn7dOb+XVcso/M0tVdmA7/+v5KBeFS/xji/qbnFUXXrHFSuX+9Vk/Qk6aS9uQ
 5XZlNdbXVMxGoXvcLbcZKA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000889331-99-000002.txt : 19990322
<SEC-HEADER>0000889331-99-000002.hdr.sgml : 19990322
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000889331-99-000002
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19990102
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990319

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LITTELFUSE INC /DE
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000889331
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SWITCHGEAR & SWITCHBOARD APPARATUS [3613]
		IRS NUMBER:				363795742
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20388
		FILM NUMBER:		99568333

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 E NORTHWEST HWY
		CITY:			DES PLAINES
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60016
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7088241188

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 E. NORTHWEST HWY
		CITY:			DES PLAINES
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60016
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>


                       Securities and Exchange Commission
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K
                [X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
                     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
    (Mark One)      for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1999 or
              [ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
                     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                        for the transition period from to

                         Commission file number 0-20388

                                Littelfuse, Inc.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Delaware                                         36-3795742
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)

800 East Northwest Highway,
Des Plaines, Illinois                                       60016
(Address of principal executive offices)                   (Zip Code)

                                  847/824-1188
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

     Securities  registered  pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock,
$.01 par value, and Warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

         The aggregate market value of 18,452,016 shares of voting stock held by
non-affiliates  of the registrant was  approximately  $321,766,255  based on the
last reported sale price of the  registrant's  Common Stock,  $.01 par value, as
reported on The Nasdaq Stock Market on March 12, 1999.

     As of March 12, 1999, the registrant had outstanding  19,660,879  shares of
Common  Stock,  $.01 par value,  and  Warrants to purchase  2,474,615  shares of
Common Stock, $.01 par value.

Portions of the following  documents have been incorporated  herein by reference
to the extent indicated herein: Littelfuse, Inc. Proxy Statement dated March 18,
1999 (the "Proxy  Statement")  --Part III.  Littelfuse,  Inc.  Annual  Report to
Stockholders  for the year ended January 3, 1998 (the "Annual  Report") -- Parts
II and III.


<PAGE>


                                                                Part I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

General

         Littelfuse,   Inc.  (the  "Company"  or   "Littelfuse")  is  a  leading
manufacturer and seller of fuses and other circuit protection devices for use in
the electronic,  automotive and general industrial markets.  Management believes
the Company is ranked first in market share in the electronic  market,  first in
the  automotive  market  and third in the power  fuse  market in North  America.
Management believes that the Company, together with its licensees, is also first
in market  share in the  electronic  market and first in the  automotive  market
worldwide.

         In the electronic  market,  leading  manufacturers such as 3Com, Canon,
Compaq,  Hewlett Packard,  IBM, LG Electronics,  Lucent Technologies,  Motorola,
Nortel, Panasonic, Samsung, Sharp, Sony and Toshiba obtain a substantial portion
of their electronic  circuit  protection  requirements from the Company.  In the
automotive market, the Company or its licensees have customer relationships with
all leading automobile  manufacturers  throughout the world. Littelfuse provides
substantially all of the automotive fuse requirements for vehicles  manufactured
domestically  by General Motors and is the primary  supplier for Ford,  Chrysler
and all Japanese and most European auto  manufacturer  transplants.  The Company
also  competes in the power fuse market  selling to companies  such as the Allen
Bradley division of Rockwell International and Reliance Electric. In addition to
fuses,  the Company  manufactures  and supplies  switches,  circuit breakers and
indicator  lights  to the  automotive  industry  and to  appliance  and  general
electronics manufacturers.
See "Business Environment:  Circuit Protection Market."

         The Company manufactures its products on fully integrated manufacturing
and  assembly  equipment,  much  of  which  is  designed  and  built  by its own
engineers.  The Company  fabricates and assembles a majority of its products and
maintains  product quality through a rigorous quality assurance program with all
sites (except the Philippines)  certified under ISO 9000 standards and its world
headquarters now certified under the QS9000 standards.

         The Company's  products are sold worldwide through a direct sales force
and manufacturers'  representatives.  In Asia Pacific,  the Company has licensed
its automotive fuse technology to a Japanese firm that supplies automotive fuses
to Pacific Rim customers.  For the year ended January 2, 1999, approximately 43%
of the Company's net sales were to customers  outside the United States (exports
and foreign operations).

     References  herein to "1996" or "fiscal  1996" refer to the  calendar  year
ended December 28, 1996.  References  herein to "1997" or "fiscal 1997" refer to
the fiscal year ended  January 3, 1998.  References  herein to "1998" or "fiscal
1998" refer to the fiscal year ended January 2, 1999.

Business Environment:  Circuit Protection Market

         The  circuit  protection  market can be broadly  categorized  into five
major product areas:  electronic,  automotive,  industrial (power), high voltage
and  residential.  The  Company  sells  products  designed  for the  electronic,
automotive  and industrial  areas.  The Company  entered the circuit  protection
market  in 1927  with the  development  and  introduction  of the  first  small,
fast-acting fuse capable of protecting  sensitive test meters.  Since that time,
the Company has diversified its involvement in the circuit  protection market to
become a leader in the  production  of  electronic  and  automotive  fuses.  The
Company  also  entered the power fuse market in 1983 with a broad line of fuses,
including several proprietary  products.  The Company believes it is the circuit
protection  leader  because it designs and  produces  almost all the products it
sells in all three  markets  including the two markets where it holds the number
one market share position. See "Littelfuse Products."

         Electronic Products. Electronic circuit protection products are used to
protect  power  circuits  in a  multitude  of  electronic  systems.  Electronics
products  fall into four  major  categories:  (1)  fuses,  (2)  protectors,  (3)
resettables  and (4)  electrostatic  discharge  suppressors.  Electronics  fuses
generally are of two types - miniature  and  subminiature.  Miniature  fuses are
generally  tubular  in  shape  with  glass,   ceramic  and  composition  bodies.
Subminiature devices are used where space is at a premium.  Protectors are fuses
produced to a less  rigorous  specification.  Resettables  are polymer  positive
temperature coefficient (PTC) devices that limit the current when an overcurrent
condition  exists and let current pass again after the cause of the  overcurrent
is removed.  Electrostatic discharge (ESD) suppressors are polymer based devices
that shunt transient high voltage energy away from circuitry.  Applications  for
electronic products include telecommunications equipment, computers and computer
peripherals,  power  supplies,  test and medical  instrumentation,  and consumer
electronic  products.  There is also a special segment of the electronic circuit
protection  market  directed  toward  the  aerospace  industry.   These  special
high-reliability fuses are manufactured in small quantities under extremely high
quality control standards.

         Automotive Products. Fuses are extensively used in automobiles, trucks,
buses and off-road equipment to protect electrical circuits and wiring harnesses
supplying  electrical  power  to  operate  lights,  heating,  air  conditioning,
windshield wipers, radios, windows and controls. Currently, a typical automobile
contains 30 to 70 fuses,  depending upon the options  installed.  The market for
automotive  fuses is  expected  to grow in the coming  years as more  electronic
features are included in automobiles. Certain new vehicles, such as the Cadillac
Seville,  Ford 150 series truck, Jeep Grand Cherokee and the Jaguar,  contain as
many as 50 to 90 fuses and this higher fuse count is expected to spread to other
vehicles.

         Power  Products.   Power  fuses  include  both  current   limiting  and
non-current   limiting  devices  used  to  protect  electrical  systems  against
overcurrents.  Power fuses are rated and listed under one of many  Underwriters'
Laboratories fuse  classifications.  The three main end user market segments for
power  fuses  include  original  equipment  manufacturers  ("OEMs"),  industrial
maintenance  and repair  operations  ("MROs") and new  commercial and industrial
construction.  Major  applications  for  power  fuses  include  protection  from
over-load  and  short-circuit  currents in motor  branch  circuits,  heating and
cooling systems, control systems,  lighting circuits and electrical distribution
networks.

Littelfuse Products

         General.  The Company is a leading manufacturer and seller of fuses and
other  circuit  protection  devices for use in the  electronic,  automotive  and
general  industrial  markets.  The  Company's  products are  marketed  under the
general  trademarked names of Littelfuse(R) and, where  appropriate,  Slo-Blo(R)
Fuse as well as the trademarked names of certain of its products listed below in
the description of the Company's electronic, automotive and power fuse products.

Product Sales. Net sales of the Company's  products by industry category for the
periods indicated are as follows:
<TABLE>


                                   Fiscal Year
                                 (in thousands)
                                         -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------

                                                1998                  1997                  1996
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------
<S>                                                 <C>                   <C>                    <C>     
             Electronic                             $133,085              $135,032               $112,358
             Automotive                               96,686               102,139                 93,690
             Industrial (Power)                       39,769                37,994                 35,398
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------
                                         ==================== ===================== ======================
                  Total                             $269,540              $275,165               $241,446
                                         ==================== ===================== ======================
</TABLE>


         Electronic Products. The Company manufactures and sells a wide range of
electronic circuit  protection  products,  including  miniature and subminiature
fuses,  protectors and resettables.  Electronic miniature and subminiature fuses
are designed to provide circuit  protection in the limited space requirements of
electronic equipment.  The Company entered the protector market in late 1994 and
the  resettable  polymer  PTC  device  market in late  1996.  While the  Company
continues to develop its own resettable fuse products,  the Company also entered
into  agreements  with  Raychem  Corp.  in 1996 which  allow the Company to sell
resettable fuses using certain of Raychem's technology.  The Company entered the
ESD suppressor  market in late 1998. The Company is in the process of developing
ESD suppressor  products and also purchased the Pulse-Guard(R)  product line and
technology in 1998.

The Company's  electronic  circuit  protection  products are marketed  under the
following trademarked and brand names:

              PICO(R) II Fuse is a very fast-acting subminiature fuse with axial
              leads which can be automatically inserted into a circuit board. It
              is used in consumer electronics,  computers,  medical instruments,
              power supplies and telecommunication line cards. It was originally
              developed for the aerospace  industry where  extremely  small size
              and  high  reliability  were  prime   requisites.   This  fuse  is
              encapsulated  with an epoxy coating  which  protects the fuse from
              adverse environmental  conditions. It can stand up under the rough
              treatment  found in high speed  automated  circuit board  assembly
              processes used by many different manufacturers.


              2AG fuses are a miniature version of the standard 1/4" diameter by
              1-1/4"  long  glass  bodied  fuses  manufactured  for more than 40
              years. The fuse occupies about 1/3 of the space but still provides
              the  performance  of the larger  sized  product.  The  Company has
              developed a strong market in the telecommunications industry for a
              leaded  version of the 2AG fuse.  These fuses are used in business
              and  personal  telephone  systems,  answering  machines  and other
              equipment  connected to phone lines.  They are used to protect the
              system from  lightning  surges and  accidental  contact with power
              lines.  These  fuses  also  are  used  extensively  in  electronic
              ballasts for lighting.

              NANO2  (R) SMF  Fuse is a fourth  generation  surface  mount  fuse
              product  line.  The  compact  size (.240" x .100" x .100") of this
              rectangular shaped fuse is very attractive to design engineers. In
              addition,   the  flat  side  design  permits  efficient  pick  and
              placement by automated assembly equipment.  The NANO2 (R) SMF Fuse
              is used where space considerations are critical,  including laptop
              computers, camcorders and battery chargers.

              ALF(TM) II or "1206" SMF is a very fast acting  thin film  surface
              mount fuse measuring  only .12 inch x .06 inch.  The  subminiature
              size   assures   additional   space   savings  in  surface   mount
              applications.  It is completely  compatible with common  soldering
              systems  used in surface  mount  assembly  applications  and it is
              available on 8mm reels for use with automatic placement equipment.
              Applications  include  hard disk drives,  PC main boards,  digital
              cameras and CD-ROMs.

              "0603"  SMF is a very fast  acting  thin film  surface  mount fuse
              measuring  only .06 inch x .03 inch. The 0603 is the smallest fuse
              available  and has a very  low  profile  .018  inches.  The  small
              physical  size along with low values for  resistance  and  voltage
              drop are  significant  features  of this new fuse for  battery and
              other low  voltage  applications,  such as hard disk drives and PC
              main boards.  The 0603 has also gained  acceptance  for use in the
              protection of cellular telephones.

              SMTelecom(TM)  is the first  surface  mount fuse to comply with UL
              1459  and UL 1950  third  edition  power  cross  requirements  for
              telecommunications.  The new SMTelecom(TM) Fuse protects all phone
              line connected  equipment  against  current surges  resulting from
              power cross,  power induction and lightning  strikes.  It is rated
              for 250 volts with a 600 volt short circuit  rating.  Four current
              ratings  are  offered,  from  0.75  to 1.5  amperes.  Applications
              include  modems,  fax  machines,  desktop  telephones,   answering
              machines and line cards.

              Surface  Mount  PTC is  the  first  in  Littelfuse's  line  of PTC
              devices.  Its dimensions of 0.200" x 0.290" x 0.120" are ideal for
              circuit board applications where space is at a premium. It also is
              available  in 0.340" x 0.250" x 0.10" and  0.179" x 0.127" x 0.02"
              configurations.  This polymer surface mount PTC has the ability to
              reset itself once the fault or overcurrent  condition has cleared.
              This new product is used  primarily  for computer  and  peripheral
              applications such as motherboards,  disk drives, PC cards, modems,
              printers, etc.

              PulseGuard(R), an ESD suppressor, is a polymer based surface mount
              or  connector  style  device  that  utilizes  a  variable  voltage
              material  to shunt high  voltage  ESD energy  away from  circuitry
              without affecting data signals. The PulseGuard(R)  characteristics
              and  available  packages  provide  for  protection  of  integrated
              circuitry in applications such as PCs and PC peripherals.

         Automotive  Products.  The Company is a primary  supplier of automotive
fuses to United  States,  Japanese  and  European  automotive  OEMs,  automotive
component parts  manufacturers  and automotive parts  distributors.  The Company
also sells its fuses in the  replacement  parts market,  with its products being
sold through mass merchandisers,  discount stores and service stations,  as well
as under private label by national firms.  Management believes that it currently
is the leading worldwide supplier of automotive fuses for new vehicle production
and a leader for the aftermarket/replacement market.

         The Company  invented and owns all of the U.S.  patents  related to the
blade  type  fuse  which is the  standard  and most  commonly  used  fuse in the
automotive industry. The Company believes that, together with its licensees,  it
supplies  substantially  all of the blade type fuses used in the North  American
and  Japanese  markets  and a majority in the  European  market.  The  Company's
automotive fuse products are marketed under the following  trademarked and brand
names:

              AUTOFUSE(R)  or  ATO(R),  a standard  blade type fuse,  is used in
              automobiles  produced  worldwide and designed to provide  superior
              circuit  protection  in a small,  heat  resistant  package for low
              ampere applications.

              MINI(R) Fuse, smaller than its predecessor AUTOFUSE(R), is offered
              in a range from two amps to 30 amps and is designed to permit more
              fuses in the same amount of space than prior products.

              MAXI(TM) Fuse, a larger version of the  AUTOFUSE(R),  replaces the
              commonly  used low  technology  fusible  wire or fusible  links in
              automobile  electrical harnesses and is offered in a range from 20
              amps to 80 amps.

              MIDI(R)  Fuse is a bolt down version of the  MAXI(TM)  fuse.  This
              style is preferred by some European customers in the 50 to 100 amp
              range. Its primary use is for heating,  air conditioning and motor
              control circuits.

              J-CASE(R)  Fuse, is a cartridge  version of the Maxi(TM) fuse. Its
              primary use is for branch  circuit  protection  and  protection of
              circuits with inductive loads.

               MEGA(R)Fuse,  a higher  current  fuse with  ratings of 100 to 200
               amps, is used for protection of battery cables.

         Over half of the Company's North American  automotive (blade type) fuse
sales are made to wire harness  manufacturers  that  incorporate  the fuses into
their  products.  The  remaining  automotive  fuse  sales are made  directly  to
automotive manufacturers and through distributors who in turn sell most of their
products to  automotive  product  wholesalers,  such as warehouse  distributors,
discount stores and service stations.

         The Company believes it currently has adequate  production  capacity to
meet the  anticipated  increased  demand for  automotive  fuses  referred  to in
"Business  Environment:  Circuit  Protection  Market --  Automotive  Fuses." Any
required  expenditures for additional machinery and equipment are expected to be
funded by cash flow from operations.

         The Company has  licensed  its  patented  ATO(R),  Mini(R) and Maxi(TM)
automotive fuse designs to Bussmann,  a division of Cooper Industries.  Bussmann
is the Company's  largest  domestic  competitor.  Additionally,  the Company has
entered into a licensing  agreement with Pacific  Engineering  Company,  Ltd., a
Japanese  fuse  manufacturer,  which  produces  and  distributes  the  Company's
patented ATO(R) and Mini(R)  automotive  fuses to the Pacific Rim  manufacturing
operations of Japanese based automobile  manufacturers.  See  "Competition"  and
"Business -- Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property."

         Power  Products.  The Company entered the power fuse market in 1983 and
manufactures and sells a broad range of low-voltage  circuit protection products
to electrical distributors and their customers in the construction,  OEM and MRO
markets. Power fuses are used to protect circuits in various types of industrial
equipment and circuits in industrial  plants,  office  buildings and residential
units.  The  Company's  power fuse  products  are marketed  under the  following
classifications:

              Class L fuses are  commonly  used as the first line of  electrical
              protection in building service entrance equipment of high capacity
              electrical systems.  Other applications  include switchboard mains
              and feeders,  distribution equipment and branch circuit protection
              for large motors.

              Class R fuses are commonly used downstream from Class L fuses in a
              variety of branch circuit  applications.  Both time delay and fast
              acting  versions  cover a range  of  applications  including  main
              feeder,  motor,  transformer  and  solenoids.  The  Company's  RK5
              INDICATOR  fuse series has won  numerous  product  awards and wide
              recognition  by industrial  plant  personnel.  These fuses have an
              integrated blown fuse indicator that turns from clear to dark once
              a fuse has blown. This reduces  troubleshooting time significantly
              and helps improve safety.

              Class J fuses are less  than  half the size of Class R to  provide
              substantial space savings. Applications for Class J are similar to
              Class R.  Additional  applications  include back up protection for
              circuit  breakers  and  protection  for both  IEC and  NEMA  rated
              devices.  The Company has also  introduced an indicating J line of
              fuses with indication functionality like the RK5 INDICATOR fuse.

              Class CC fuses, Littelfuse's KLDR (for transformer protection) and
              CCMR (for motor  branch  circuit  protection)  provide  protection
              formerly  supplied by fuses 10 times  larger.  Littelfuse  was the
              first to the market with these  products  and is the only  company
              with a CCMR rated up to 60 amps.

              Semiconductor  fuses,  designed for  supplementary  protection  of
              semiconducting devices, are used in electronic equipment and power
              equipment,  such as variable speed drives,  power rectifiers,  UPS
              systems and DC power suppliers.

              Midget fuses, in seven  different  series,  provide  supplementary
              overcurrent  protection  in such diverse  applications  as control
              circuits, control power transformers,  solenoids,  street lighting
              and computers.

              Medium voltage fuses, designed for general and back-up protection,
              protect motors,  transformers  and motor  controllers.  The medium
              voltage  fuse line was  expanded in 1998 with the  purchase of the
              product  line and  assets of a medium  voltage  fuse  manufacturer
              allowing for very short delivery times of these products.

         Other Products. In addition to the above products, the Company supplies
switches,  circuit breakers and indicator lights to the automotive  industry and
to  appliance  and  general  electronics  manufacturers.  The  Company is also a
supplier  of fuse  holders  (including  OMNI-BLOK(R)),  fuse  blocks  (including
Powr-Blok(R) power  distribution  systems) and fuse clips primarily to customers
that purchase circuit protection devices from the Company.


Product Design and Development

         The Company  employs  scientific,  engineering  and other  personnel to
improve its existing  product  lines and to develop new products at its research
and engineering facility in Des Plaines,  Illinois.  The Engineering  Department
consists of approximately 60 engineers, chemists, metallurgists, fusologists and
technicians.  This  department  is  primarily  responsible  for the  design  and
development  of new  products and  consists of eight major  groups:  two product
design, two materials  engineering,  one advanced  technology  development,  one
manufacturing engineering automation and two engineering support groups.

         Proposals for the  development of new products are initiated  primarily
by sales and marketing  personnel with input from customers.  The entire product
development process typically ranges from 6 to 18 months with continuous efforts
to reduce the development cycle.  During the fiscal years ended January 2, 1999,
January 3, 1998, and December 28, 1996, the Company expended  approximately $8.4
million,  $7.9 million and $7.3  million,  respectively,  on product  design and
development.

Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

         The Company  generally  relies on patent and trademark laws and license
and nondisclosure  agreements to protect its rights in its trade secrets and its
proprietary products.  In cases where it is deemed necessary by management,  key
employees  are  required  to sign an  agreement  that  they  will  maintain  the
confidentiality of the Company's proprietary information and trade secrets. This
information, which for business reasons, is not disclosed to the public.

         As of January 2, 1999,  the Company owned 111 patents in North America,
23 patents in the European  Economic  Community  and 29 patents in other foreign
countries.  The Company has also registered  trademark protection for certain of
its brand names and logos.  The 111 North American  patents are in the following
categories:  50 Electronic,  7 Resettable,  26  Automotive,  19 Power Fuse and 9
miscellaneous.

         The first  patent  covering the  AUTOFUSE(R)  or ATO(R) fuse expired on
September 30, 1992.  However,  the last  improvement  patent covering the ATO(R)
fuse expires on September 19, 2000. The ATO(R) fuse product is further protected
by trademark and trade dress protection which has a remaining indefinite life so
long as it continues to be correctly used by the Company and its licensees.

         New products are continually being developed to replace older products.
The  Company  regularly  applies  for patent  protection  on such new  products.
Although in the aggregate  the Company's  patents are important in the operation
of its businesses, the Company believes that the loss by expiration or otherwise
of any one patent or group of patents would not materially affect its business.

         The Company currently licenses its MINI(R) and MAXI(TM) automotive fuse
technology  to  Bussmann,  a division  of Cooper  Industries  and the  Company's
largest  domestic  competitor.  The license granted in 1987 is nonexclusive  and
grants  the  Company  the right to  receive  royalties  of 4% of the  licensee's
revenues  from the sale of the  licensed  products  with an  annual  minimum  of
$25,000.  Each license  expires  upon the  expiration  of the  licensed  product
patents.

         The Company currently licenses its ATO(R) automotive fuse technology to
Pacific  Engineering  Company,  Ltd., a Japanese  manufacturer that produces and
distributes the Company's patented automotive fuses to Pacific Rim operations of
Pacific Rim-based automotive manufacturers. The license is exclusive as to Japan
and  non-exclusive  as to other  specified  Pacific Rim territories and provides
that the Company will receive royalties of 1.5% of the licensee's  revenues from
the sales of the licensed  products with a $25,000 annual minimum.  This license
expires on August 10, 1999. In addition,  a second license  covering the MINI(R)
Fuse  technology  was granted with  similar  territory  arrangements  to Pacific
Engineering  which provides the Company with royalties of 2.5% of the licensee's
revenues  from the sale of the  licensed  products,  with an annual  minimum  of
$100,000. This second license expires on April 6, 2006.

         License royalties amounted to $286,000, $332,000 and $266,000 for 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.



<PAGE>


Manufacturing

         Much of the Company's manufacturing equipment is custom designed by its
engineers,  and the Company  conducts the majority of its own  fabrication.  The
Company  stamps  most of the metal  components  used in its fuses,  holders  and
switches  from raw metal stock and makes its own contacts and springs.  However,
the Company does depend upon a single  source for a  substantial  portion of its
stamped metal end caps for one family of electronic  fuses. The Company believes
that alternative stamping sources are available at prices which would not have a
material  adverse  effect on the  Company.  The Company  also  performs  its own
plating (silver,  nickel, zinc, tin and oxides). In addition,  all thermoplastic
molded component requirements used for such products as the AUTOFUSE(R), MINI(R)
and  MAXI(TM)  product  lines are met through  the  Company's  in-house  molding
capabilities.

         After components are stamped,  molded, plated and readied for assembly,
final assembly is accomplished on fully  automatic and  semi-automatic  assembly
machines.  Quality assurance and operations personnel,  using techniques such as
Statistical  Process Control,  perform tests, checks and measurements during the
production  process  to  maintain  the  highest  levels of product  quality  and
customer satisfaction.

         The principal raw materials for the Company's  products  include copper
and copper alloys,  heat resistant  plastics,  zinc,  melamine,  glass,  silver,
solder,  sulphate  chipboard  and  linerboard.  The Company  depends upon a sole
source for several heat resistant  plastics.  The Company believes that suitable
alternative  heat resistant  plastics are available from other sources at prices
which would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.  All of the other
raw materials are purchased from a number of readily available outside sources.

         A computer-aided  design and manufacturing  system (CAD/CAM)  expedites
product  development  and  machine  design,  while  reliability  and high  power
laboratories test new products,  prototype  concepts and production run samples.
The Company  participates in  "Just-in-Time"  delivery programs with many of its
major  suppliers  and  actively  promotes  the  building  of strong  cooperative
relationships  with its suppliers by involving them in  pre-engineering  product
and process  development.  The Company also  sponsors an annual  major  supplier
conference and conducts a vendor certification program.

Marketing

         The Company's domestic sales staff of approximately 66 people maintains
relations with major OEMs and distributors.  The Company's sales and engineering
personnel  interact  directly with the OEM engineers to ensure  maximum  circuit
protection   and   reliability   within  the   parameters  of  the  OEM  design.
Internationally,  the Company maintains a sales staff of approximately 30 people
and sales offices in The Netherlands,  England,  Singapore, Korea and China. The
Company also markets its products indirectly through a worldwide organization of
approximately  125  manufacturers'  representatives  and distributes  through an
extensive network of electronic, automotive and electrical distributors.

         Electronic. The Company has retained 23 manufacturers'  representatives
to sell its electronic products  domestically and additional  representatives to
sell its electronic  products  internationally.  These  representatives  call on
major OEMs and distributors.  The Company  distributes  approximately 41% of its
domestic products directly to OEMs, with the remainder  distributed by more than
800 distributors nationwide.

         In the Asia-Pacific  region, the Company maintains a direct sales staff
of five people in Singapore,  one in Hong Kong,  seven in Korea, and one or more
manufacturers'  representatives in Japan,  Singapore,  Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan,
China, Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines and Australia. The Company also maintains
an engineering facility in Japan. In Europe, the Company's  distribution methods
differ from its domestic methods in that it maintains a direct sales force of 17
people to call on OEMs exclusively and utilizes  approximately 15 manufacturers'
representatives  to approach  distributors and smaller OEMs. Unlike its domestic
representatives,  these manufacturers'  representatives  purchase inventory from
the Company to facilitate  delivery and reduce  financial risks  associated with
currency exchange rate fluctuations.

         Automotive.  The Company sells  automotive fuses through a direct sales
force in Detroit  consisting  of four  employees.  Salespersons  service all the
major automotive OEMs (including the United States  manufacturing  operations of
foreign-based  OEMs) through both the engineering and purchasing  departments of
these  companies.   Twenty-two  manufacturers'  representatives  distribute  the
Company's  products to aftermarket  fuse  retailers such as Autozone,  Pep Boys,
K-Mart and NAPA.  In Europe,  the  Company  uses both a direct  sales  force and
manufacturers' representatives to distribute its products to Mercedes Benz, BMW,
Volvo, Saab, Jaguar and other OEMs, as well as aftermarket distributors.  In the
Asia-Pacific  region, the Company has licensed its automotive fuse technology to
a Japanese  firm which  supplies  the  majority of the  automotive  fuses to the
Japanese  manufacturing  operations in the region  including  Toyota,  Honda and
Nissan.


         Power.  The  Company  markets  and  sells its power  fuses  through  36
manufacturers'  representatives across North America. These representatives sell
power fuse products  through an  electrical  distribution  network  comprised of
approximately 1,200 distributors. These distributors have customers that include
electrical contractors,  municipalities, utilities and factories (including both
MRO  and  OEM).  Some  of  the  manufacturers'  representatives  have  consigned
inventory in order to facilitate rapid customer delivery.

         The Company's field sales force (including  application  engineers) and
manufacturers'   representatives   call  on  both   distributors  and  end-users
(consulting  engineers,  municipalities,  utilities  and  OEMs) in an  effort to
educate these customers on the capabilities and characteristics of the Company's
products.

Business Segment Information

The Company has three reportable  business  segments:  The Americas,  Europe and
Asia-Pacific.  For information  with respect to the Company's  operations in its
three  geographic  areas for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1999, see "Item 8.
Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data - Business  Segment  Information"
incorporated herein by reference.




<PAGE>


Customers

         The  Company  sells  to over  10,000  customers  worldwide.  No  single
customer  accounted  for more than 10% of net sales  during the last three years
except for its Japanese  stocking  representative  which  accounted for 10.2% in
1998. The Japanese stocking representative serves over 100 customers in the Asia
Pacific  electronic  market.  During the 1998,  1997 and 1996 fiscal years,  net
sales to customers  outside the United States  (exports and foreign  operations)
accounted  for  approximately  43.0%,  40.6%  and  38.5%,  respectively,  of the
Company's total net sales.

Competition

         The  Company's   products   compete  with  similar  products  of  other
manufacturers, many of which have substantially greater financial resources than
the Company.  In the  electronic  fuse market,  the  Company's  competitors  are
Bussmann, a division of Cooper Industries,  Bel Fuse, Inc., Raychem Corp., San-O
Industrial  Corp. and  Wickmann-Werke  GmbH. In the  fuseholder  portion of this
market, the Company's principal  competitor is Schurter,  Inc. In the automotive
fuse  market,  the  Company's  major  competitor,  both in sales  to  automobile
manufacturers and in the aftermarket,  is Bussmann. The Company licenses several
of its automotive fuse designs to Bussmann.  Other auto fuse competitors include
Pudenz and MTA.  In the power  fuse  market,  the  Company's  major  competitors
include Bussmann,  Gould, Inc and Ferraz.  The Company believes that it competes
primarily on the basis of innovative products,  the breadth of available product
lines,  the quality and design of its  products  and the  responsiveness  of its
customer service rather than through price competition.

Backlog

         The Company  does not consider  backlog to be a  predictive  measure of
results due to the Company's short delivery time. The Company  manufactures high
volume  products  based on its  demand  forecasts  and  manufactures  low volume
products based on customer orders. The Company attempts to ship such products to
the customer within five business days of the date of the order. Over 90% of all
orders,  which request delivery within three weeks of the date of the order, are
filled on time from available stock or current production.

Employees

         During  1998,  the  Company  employed   approximately   3,085  persons.
Approximately  50  employees  in Des  Plaines  and 450  employees  in Mexico are
covered by collective bargaining  agreements.  The Des Plaines agreement expires
March 31, 1999 and the Mexico  agreement  expires  January 31, 2001. The Company
has not  experienced any work stoppage or other form of labor dispute within the
last 20 years.  The Company  believes that its employee  relations are excellent
and that its  employees,  many of whom have long  experience  with the  Company,
represent a valuable  resource.  The Company  emphasizes  employee  training and
development and has established  Quality  Improvement Process (QIP) training for
its  employees   worldwide  so  as  to  promote  product  quality  and  customer
satisfaction.





<PAGE>


Year 2000

For information  relating to year 2000 see "Item 7. Management's  Discussion and
Analysis  of  Financial  Conditions  and  Results  of  Operations  - Year  2000"
incorporated herein by reference.

Environmental Regulation

         The Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations
relating to air and water quality,  the disposal of hazardous  waste  materials,
safety and health.  Compliance with applicable environmental regulations has not
significantly changed the Company's  competitive  position,  capital spending or
earnings  in the  past  and the  Company  does  not  presently  anticipate  that
compliance with such regulations will change its competitive  position,  capital
spending  or  earnings  for the  foreseeable  future.  The  Company  employs  an
environmental  engineer to monitor  regulatory  matters and believes  that it is
currently in compliance in all material  respects with applicable  environmental
laws and regulations.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

Littelfuse Facilities

         The Company's  operations are located in 19 owned or leased  facilities
worldwide,  containing  approximately 708,000 square feet. The U.S. headquarters
and principal  fabrication and distribution  facility is located in Des Plaines,
Illinois,  supported by three  additional  plants in Illinois and one in Mexico.
European  headquarters  and  the  primary  European  distribution  center  is in
Utrecht,  The Netherlands,  with manufacturing  plants in the United Kingdom and
Switzerland.  Asia Pacific operations  include a distribution  center located in
Singapore,  with manufacturing  plants in Korea, China and the Philippines.  The
Company does not believe that it will  encounter any  difficulty in renewing its
existing leases upon the expiration of their current terms.  Management believes
that the  Company's  facilities  are adequate to meet its  requirements  for the
foreseeable future.

          The  following  table  provides  certain  information  concerning  the
Company's facilities:
<TABLE>

                                                                                     Lease
                                                                                     Expir-
                                                        Size         Lease/          Ation        Industry
<S>                                <C>                 <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>    
Location                          Use                   (sq.ft.)      Own             Date          Focus

Des Plaines, Illinois             Administrative,       340,000      Owned             --         Auto, Electronic, Power
                                  Engineering,
                                  Manufacturing,
                                  Testing and Research
Centralia, Illinois               Manufacturing          45,200      Owned            --          Electronic
Arcola, Illinois                  Manufacturing          36,000      Owned               --       Power
Watseka, Illinois                 Manufacturing          26,000      Leased(1)          1999      Auto, Electronic
Watseka, Illinois                 Storage                 5,000      Owned               --       Other

Farmington Hills, Michigan        Administrative          1,562      Leased             2001      Auto

Piedras Negras, Mexico            Manufacturing          59,838      Leased             2000      Auto, Electronic, Power
Piedras Negras, Mexico            Manufacturing          12,590      Leased             2000      Electronic and Power

Washington,                       Manufacturing,         60,000      Owned               --       Electronic, Auto, Other
England                           Sales and
                                  Distribution

Utrecht, The Netherlands          Warehousing             8,680      Leased             1999      Auto, Electronic, Other
Utrecht, The Netherlands          Sales,                 12,000      Owned               --       Auto, Electronic, Other
                                  Administrative  and
                                  Engineering

Grenchen, Switzerland             Manufacturing          11,000      Owned               --       Auto
Singapore                         Sales and               7,836      Leased             1999      Electronic
                                  Distribution
Seoul, Korea                      Sales and             29,175       Owned               --       Electronic
                                  Manufacturing
Philippines                       Manufacturing         10,200       Leased             1999      Electronic
Suzhou, China                     Manufacturing         40,000       Owned               --       Electronic
Hong Kong, China                  Sales                    200       Leased             2000      Electronic
Yokohama, Japan                   Engineering            1,815       Leased             1999      Electronic
Sao Paulo, Brazil                 Sales and
                                  Distribution           1,200       Leased             1999      Electronic, Auto

<FN>

(1)...........The  lease of the  manufacturing  facility in  Watseka,  Illinois,
     provides  that the Company may  purchase the leased  facility  upon certain
     terms and conditions.
</FN>
</TABLE>



ITEM 3.   Legal Proceedings

         The Company is not a party to any legal  proceedings  which it believes
will have a material  adverse  effect  upon the  conduct of its  business or its
financial position.

ITEM 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         There were no matters  submitted to the Company's  stockholders  during
the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998.

Executive Officers of Registrant
<TABLE>

         The executive officers of the Company are as follows:

Name                                        Age                         Position

<S>                                         <C>            <C>                                
Howard B. Witt                              58             Chairman of the Board, President
                                                              and Chief Executive Officer

Kenneth R. Audino                           55             Vice President, Organizational Development
                                                            and Total Quality Management

William S. Barron                           56             Vice President, Marketing and
                                                            Sales

Philip G. Franklin                          47             Vice President, Treasurer
                                                            and Chief Financial Officer

David J. Krueger                            61             Vice President, Engineering

Lloyd J. Turner                             55             Vice President, Operations

Hans Ouwehand                               52             Vice President, European
                                                           Operations

Mary S. Muchoney                            53              Secretary

</TABLE>

Officers of  Littelfuse  are elected by the Board of Directors  and serve at the
discretion of the Board.


         Howard B. Witt was elected as the  Chairman of the Board of the Company
in May,  1993. He was promoted to President and Chief  Executive  Officer of the
predecessor  company of the Company ("Old Littelfuse") in February,  1990. Prior
to his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer,  Mr. Witt served in
several other key management positions with Old Littelfuse, including Operations
Manager from March 1979 to January 1986, Vice President-Manufacturing Operations
from  January 1986 to January  1988,  and  Executive  Vice  President  with full
operating responsibilities for all U.S. activities from January 1988 to February
1990.  Prior to joining Old  Littelfuse,  Mr. Witt was a division  president  of
Keene  Corporation  from 1974 to 1979. Mr. Witt currently  serves as a member of
the Board of  Directors of Franklin  Electric  Co.,  Inc. and Material  Sciences
Corporation and is a member of the Electronic  Industries  Association  Board of
Governors. He is also a director of the Artisan Mutual Fund.


         Kenneth R. Audino, Vice President, Organizational Development and Total
Quality  management,  He is  responsible  for  the  Company's  overall  quality,
reliability and environmental  compliance,  quality systems, human resources and
training  efforts.  Mr. Audino joined Old Littelfuse as a Control  Technician in
1964.  From 1964 to 1977, he progressed  through several quality and reliability
positions to Manager of Reliability  and Standards.  In 1983, he became Managing
Director of the  European  Headquarters  of Old  Littelfuse  and later was named
Corporate Director of Quality Assurance and Reliability.  He was promoted to his
current position in 1998.

     William S. Barron, Vice President,  Sales and Marketing, has responsibility
for the general direction of all sales, marketing and related support functions.
He also is  responsible  for the  Information  Services  Department.  Mr. Barron
joined Old Littelfuse in March 1991.  From August 1981 to March 1991, Mr. Barron
served as Director of Sales and Marketing of Cinch Manufacturing and the General
Manager of one of its domestic divisions. Cinch Manufacturing is a subsidiary of
Labinal Corporation.

         Philip G.  Franklin,  Vice  President,  Treasurer  and Chief  Financial
Officer,  has  responsibility  for the treasury,  financial  control,  financial
reporting and information systems functions of the Company.  Mr. Franklin joined
the  Company  in  January  1999  from  OmniQuip  International,  a $450  million
construction equipment manufacturer which he helped take public. .

         David J.  Krueger,  Vice  President,  Engineering,  directs all product
feasibility,  design, development and testing activities. Joining Old Littelfuse
as an  Industrial  Fuse  Engineering  Manager in 1982,  he was named  Manager of
Circuit  Protection  Devices in 1984,  promoted to Director  of  Engineering  in
January  1986 and  promoted to his  current  position  one year later.  Prior to
joining  Old  Littelfuse,  Mr.  Krueger  worked  for 15 years as an  Engineering
Manager for the Economy Fuse Division of Federal Electric,  and for six years as
a Plant Manager for Federal Pacific Reliance Electric.

         Lloyd J. Turner,  Vice President,  Operations,  has  responsibility for
manufacturing  operations and related support  functions.  Mr. Turner joined Old
Littelfuse in October 1988, as Director of Manufacturing Operations after having
served as an  Operations  Manager with Texas  Instruments  from November 1984 to
September 1988. He was promoted to his current position in 1991.

         Hans  Ouwehand,  Vice  President,  European  Operations,  has  complete
responsibility  for  all  sales,  marketing,   research  and  development,   and
manufacturing activities covering the entire range of electronic, automotive and
aftermarket  products  sold by the Company in Europe.  Mr.  Ouwehand  joined Old
Littelfuse in 1984 as Sales Manager, Europe,  Electronics Division. He was later
promoted  to the  position  of  European  Sales and  Marketing  Manager  for all
Littelfuse  products  and in 1986 to the  position  of General  Manager-European
Operations.  Prior to joining Old Littelfuse, his industrial background included
research and development work with Sperry Rand and sales and product  management
with Lameris Medical Instruments.

         Mary S. Muchoney has served as Corporate  Secretary  since 1991,  after
joining Old Littelfuse in 1977. She is responsible for providing all secretarial
and  administrative   functions  for  the  President  and  Littelfuse  Board  of
Directors.  Ms.  Muchoney  is a member  of the  American  Society  of  Corporate
Secretaries.

                                                                PART II

     ITEM 5.  Market for  Registrant's  Common  Equity and  Related  Stockholder
Matters The  information set forth under  "Quarterly  Stock Price" on page 38 of
the Annual Report to  Stockholders is  incorporated  herein by reference.  It is
also included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC. As of March 12, 1999, there
were 295 holders of record of the Company's  Common Stock and in excess of 2,700
beneficial holders of its Common Stock.

         Since  September 22, 1992,  shares of the Common Stock have been traded
in the  over-the-counter  market and  quotations  are reported  using the symbol
"LFUS" on The Nasdaq Stock Market.

         The  Company has not paid any cash  dividends  in its  history.  Future
dividend  policy will be determined  by the Board of Directors  based upon their
evaluation  of  earnings,  cash  availability  and general  business  prospects.
Currently,  there are restrictions on the payment of dividends  contained in the
Company's  bank credit  agreement  which  relate to the  maintenance  of certain
restricted payment ratios.

ITEM 6.  Selected Financial Data

         The information  set forth under  "Selected  Financial Data - Five Year
Summary" on page 38 of the Annual Report to Stockholders is incorporated  herein
by reference. It is also included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC.

ITEM 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

         The information set forth under  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis
of Financial  Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 16 through 20 of the
Annual Report to Stockholders is  incorporated  herein by reference.  It is also
included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC.


ITEM 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks

The Company is exposed to market risk from  changes in interest  rates,  foreign
exchange rates and commodities.


The Company had  long-term  debt  outstanding  at January 2, 1999 in the form of
Senior  Notes and lines of credit at both  variable  and fixed  interest  rates.
Since  substantially  all of the debt has fixed  interest  rates,  the Company's
interest expense is not sensitive to changes in interest rate levels.

A portion  of the  Company's  operations  consists  of  manufacturing  and sales
activities in foreign  countries.  The Company has  manufacturing  facilities in
Mexico,  England,  Switzerland,  South Korea, China and the Philippines.  During
1998, sales exported from the United States or manufactured abroad accounted for
43.0% percent of total sales.  Substantially all sales in Europe are denominated
in Dutch Guilders,  British Pound Sterling and Euros and substantially all sales
in the  Asia-Pacific  region are  denominated in United States Dollars and South
Korean Won.

The Company's  identifiable  foreign exchange exposures result from the purchase
and sale of products from affiliates,  repayment of intercompany  trade and loan
amounts and translation of local currency  amounts in consolidation of financial
results.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions
in the foreign countries in which it manufactures and distributes products could
affect the Company's sales and financial  results.  Other than utilizing netting
and  offsetting  intercompany  account  management  techniques  to reduce  known
exposures, the Company does not use derivative financial instruments to mitigate
its foreign currency risk at the present time.

The Company uses various  metals in the  production of its  products,  including
zinc, copper and silver.  The Company's  earnings are exposed to fluctuations in
the prices of these  commodities.  The Company does not currently use derivative
financial instruments to mitigate this commodity price risk.


ITEM 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

         The  Report of  Independent  Auditors  and the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  and notes thereto of the Company set forth on pages 27 through 34 of
the Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference. They are
also included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC.

ITEM  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

         None.




<PAGE>


                                                               PART III

ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The  information  set forth under  "Election of Directors" in the Proxy
Statement is incorporated  herein by reference.  The information set forth under
"Executive  Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this Report is incorporated
herein by reference.

ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation

         The information set forth under "Compensation of Executive Officers" in
the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference, except for the sections
captioned "Reports of the Compensation Committee on Executive  Compensation" and
"Company Performance."

ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

         The information set forth under  "Ownership of Littelfuse,  Inc. Common
Stock" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         The  information  set forth under  "Certain  Relationships  and Related
Transactions" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                              PART IV

ITEM 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

               (a)         Financial Statements and Schedules

                     (1)   Financial   Statements.   The   following   financial
                           statements   included   in  the   Annual   Report  to
                           Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference.

                            (i)  Report of Independent Auditors (page 34)

                           (ii)  Consolidated  Statements of Financial Condition
                                 as of  January  2,  1999 and  January  3,  1998
                                 (pages 22 and 23).

                           (iii) Consolidated Statements of Income for the years
                                 ended  January  2,  1999,  January  3, 1998 and
                                 December 28, 1996 (page 24).

                           (iv)  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the
                                 years  ended  January 2, 1999,  January 3, 1998
                                 and December 28, 1996 (page 25).

                           (v)   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                                 for the years ended January 2, 1999, January 3,
                                 1998 and December 28, 1996.
                                 (page 26).

                            (vi)  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements
                                   (pages 27-33).

                (2)   Financial  Statement  Schedules.  The following  financial
                      statement schedules are submitted herewith for the periods
                      indicated therein.

                    (I)  Schedule   II-Valuation  and  Qualifying  Accounts  and
                         Reserves

                      All other  schedules  for which  provision  is made in the
                      applicable  accounting  regulation of the  Securities  and
                      Exchange  Commission  are not  required  under the related
                      instructions or are inapplicable and, therefore, have been
                      omitted.

                (3)   Exhibits

                      See Exhibit Index on pages 22-24,  incorporated  herein by
                       reference.

                    (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

                         There  were no  reports  on Form 8-K  during the fourth
                    quarter of 1998.







<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                                           LITTELFUSE, INC.
                                     SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                                            (In Thousands)



                                                                Additions
                                               Balance at       Charged to                         Balance at
                                               Beginning        Costs and       Deductions           End of
        Description                            Of Year          Expenses           (A)                Year
                                               ----------       ----------      ----------         -------
Year ended January 2, 1999
  Allowance for losses on
<S>                                            <C>              <C>             <C>                <C>    
    accounts receivable . . . . . .            $ 1,118          $   626         $   641            $ 1,103
                                               =======          =======         =======            =======

  Reserves for sales discounts
    and allowances . . . . . . . .             $ 4,781          $      1        $    --            $ 4,782
                                               =======          ========        =========          =======



Year ended January 3, 1998
  Allowance for losses on
    accounts receivable . . . . . .            $    896         $   410         $   188            $ 1,118
                                               ========         =======         =======            =======

  Reserves for sales discounts
    and allowances . . . . . . . .             $ 4,161          $  620          $    --            $ 4,781
                                               =======          ======          =========          =======



Year ended December 28, 1996
  Allowance for losses on
    accounts receivable . . . . .              $    863         $   236         $   203            $    896
                                               =========        =======         =======            ========
  Reserves for sales discounts
    and allowances . . . . . . .               $ 3,038          $ 1,123         $   --             $  4,161
                                               ========         =======         =========          ========



(A) Write-off of uncollectible  accounts, net of recoveries and foreign currency
translation.

</TABLE>




                                                              SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        Littelfuse, Inc.

                                   By   /s/ Howard B. Witt 
                                        Howard B. Witt, Chairman,  President
                                        and Chief Executive Officer

Date:  March 18, 1999

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
<TABLE>

<S>                                            <C> 
  /s/ Howard B. Witt                           Chairman of the Board, President
Howard B. Witt                                      and Chief Executive Officer

  /s/ John P.  Driscoll                                 Director
John P. Driscoll

  /s/ Anthony Grillo                                    Director
Anthony Grillo

  /s/ Bruce A. Karsh                                    Director
Bruce A. Karsh


 /s/ John E. Major                                      Director
John  E. Major


  /s/ John J. Nevin                                     Director
John J. Nevin

  /s/ Philip G. Franklin                             Vice President, Treasurer
Philip G. Franklin                                  and Chief Financial Officer
                                                   (Principal Financial Officer)



</TABLE>




<PAGE>
<TABLE>


                                                            LITTELFUSE INC.
                                                           INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                                                                                     Sequentialc)
                                                                                                    Page Number
<S>       <C>                                                                                       <C>
Number                                Description of Exhibit a)
2.1        Plan of Reorganization under Chapter 11 of the  Bankruptcy Code of
           Old Littelfuse.

3.1        Certificate of Incorporation (as amended to date).

3.1A       Certificate  of  Designations  of Series A Preferred  Stock (filed as
           Exhibit  4.2 to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K  dated
           December 1, 1995 (1934 Act File No. 0-20388) and incorporated  herein
           by reference.)

3.2        Bylaws

b)4.1      Second amended restated bank credit agreement among Littelfuse, Inc.,
           as borrower, the lenders named therein and the First National Bank of
           Chicago, as agent, dated as of September 1, 1998.

4.2        Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of December 27, 1991, between
           Littelfuse,  Inc. and The  Toronto-Dominion  Bank Trust  Company,  as
           agent.

4.3        Warrant Agreement, dated as of December 27, 1991, between Littelfuse,
           Inc., and LaSalle  National Trust,  N.A., as warrant agent,  together
           with form of Warrant.  (filed as exhibit 4.3A to the  Company's  Form
           10-Q for the quarterly  period ended June 28, 1997 (1934 Act File No.
           -20388) and incorporated herein by reference), as amended.

4.4        Stock Plan for Employees and Directors of Littelfuse, Inc. d)

4.5        Form of Stock Option Agreement

4.6        Specimen Common Stock certificate.

4.7        Littelfuse, Inc. Retirement Plan dated January 1, 1992, as amended and restated.d)
<FN>

____________                   
a)   All of the exhibits,  (except those filed herewith or specifically noted as
     being   incorporated  by  reference  from  a  different  filing  under  the
     Securities as of 1933 or Securities  act of 1934) were filed as exhibits to
     the Company's Form 10 as filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission
     which became  effective on September  16, 1992 (1934 Act File No.  0-20388)
     and are incorporated herein by reference.
b)   Filed herewith.
c) This information appears only in the manually signed copy of the report.
d)   Indicates an employee  benefit plan,  management  contract or  compensatory
     plan or arrangement in which a named executive officer participates.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                                                                                     Sequentialc)
                                                                                                    Page Number
                                    Description of Exhibit a)
<S>        <C>                                                                                      <C>
Number  

4.8  Littelfuse, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan.d)

4.9  Note  Purchase  Agreement,  dated  as  of  August  31,  1993,  relating  to
     $45,000,000  principal  amount of  Littelfuse,  Inc. 6.31% Senior Notes due
     August 31, 2000.

4.10 Littelfuse  Rights Plan Agreement,  dated as of December 15, 1995,  between
     Littelfuse,  Inc. and LaSalle National Bank, as Rights Agent, together with
     Exhibits thereto, as amended.

b)4.11 Note  Purchase  Agreement  dated as of  September  1, 1998,  relating  to
     $60,000,000  principal  amount of  Littelfuse,  Inc. 6.16% Senior Notes due
     September 1, 2005.

10.1 Lease Agreement (with option to purchase), dated December 27, 1991, between
     Littelfuse, Inc. and Westmark Systems, Inc.

10.3 Patent License Agreement,  dated as of July 28, 1995,  between  Littelfuse,
     Inc. and Pacific  Engineering  Company,  Ltd.(filed  as exhibit 10.3 to the
     Company's Form 10K for the year ended December 28, 1996)

10.4 MINI(R) and MAXITM License  Agreement,  dated as of June 21, 1989,  between
     Littelfuse, Inc. and Cooper Industries, Inc.

10.5 Patent License Agreement,  dated as of January 1, 1987, between Littelfuse,
     Inc. and Cooper Industries, Inc.

10.6 1993 Stock Plan for Employees and Directors of Littelfuse, Inc., as amended
     d)

10.7 Littelfuse, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.d)

b)10.8 Littelfuse  Deferred  Compensation  Plan for Non-employee  Directors,  as
     amended.d)
</TABLE>


<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                                                                                      Sequentialc)
                                                                                                   Page Number

<S>    <C>                                                                                         <C>
Number                           Description of Exhibit a)


10.9   Littelfuse  Executive  Loan Program (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's
       Form 10Q for the  quarterly  period  ended June 30, 1995 (1934 Act File No.
       0-20388) and incorporated herein by reference.)d)

10.10  Employment  Agreement  dated as of September  1, 1996  between  Littelfuse,
       Inc. and Howard B. Witt. d)

10.11   Change  of  Control  Employment  Agreement  dated as of  September  1, 1996
        between Littelfuse, Inc. and Howard B. Witt. d)

10.12   Form of change of Control  Employment  Agreement  dated as of  September 1,
        1996 between Littelfuse, Inc. and Messrs. Anderson, Audino, Barron, Krueger
        and Turner. d)

b)10.13 Form of change of Control  Employment  Agreement  dated as of January 4,
        1999 between Littelfuse, Inc. and Mr. Franklin. d)

b)13.1  Portions of Littelfuse  Annual Report to  Stockholders  for the fiscal
        year ended January 2, 1999.

b)22.1  Subsidiaries.

b)23.1  Consent of Independent Auditors.


</TABLE>












<PAGE>




                                                           Exhibit 22.1

                                                           SUBSIDIARIES

Littelfuse, S.A. de C.V.
Littelfuse FSC
Littelfuse Do Brazil

Littelfuse, B.V.
Littelfuse, A.G.
Littelfuse Limited

Littelfuse Far East Pte Ltd.
Littelfuse HK Limited
Littelfuse Holdings Pte Ltd.
Suzhou Littelfuse OVS Ltd.
Littelfuse KK
Littelfuse Triad Inc.
Littelfuse Phils Inc.




























</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>FDS FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED 1/2/99
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5

<CIK>                                            0000889331 
<NAME>                                           Littelfuse, Inc.
<MULTIPLIER>                                   1,000
<CURRENCY>                                     USD
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   Year
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                              Jan-02-1999                                
<PERIOD-START>                                 Jan-04-1998  
<PERIOD-END>                                   Jan-02-1999
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                1
<CASH>                                         27,961
<SECURITIES>                                   0
<RECEIVABLES>                                  41,382
<ALLOWANCES>                                   5,885
<INVENTORY>                                    36,209
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               111,098
<PP&E>                                         163,571
<DEPRECIATION>                                 85,783
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 250,544
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          51,967
<BONDS>                                        0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                          0
<PREFERRED>                                    0
<COMMON>                                       200
<OTHER-SE>                                     0
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   250,544
<SALES>                                        269,540
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               269,540
<CGS>                                          169,341
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  0
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                               0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                               0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                             3,989
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                30,009
<INCOME-TAX>                                   10,124
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                            0
<DISCONTINUED>                                 0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                0
<CHANGES>                                      0
<NET-INCOME>                                   19,885
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                  0.97
<EPS-DILUTED>                                  0.86
        


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4.(I)
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.1
<TEXT>


                                                              Exhibit   4.1




                                                               EXECUTION COPY



                                   $55,000,000



                  SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT


                                      AMONG


                                LITTELFUSE, INC.,

                                  as Borrower,

                            THE LENDERS NAMED HEREIN

                                       and

                       THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO,

                                    as Agent



                                   DATED AS OF


                                September 1, 1998







                                                    ARRANGED BY

                                        FIRST CHICAGO CAPITAL MARKETS, INC.


<PAGE>


                                                                            iii

                                                        -1-
                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS
<TABLE>


ARTICLE I

         DEFINITIONS                                                                       1
ARTICLE II

<S>                                                                                       <C>
         THE CREDITS                                                                      15
         2.1        Commitment                                                            15
         2.2        Determination of Dollar Amounts; Required Payments; Termination       15
                    ---------------------------------------------------------------
         2.3        Ratable Loans                                                         16
                    -------------
         2.4        Types of Advances                                                     16
         2.5        Commitment and Utilization Fees; Reductions in Aggregate Commitment   16
         2.6        Minimum Amount of Each Advance                                        17
         2.7        Optional Principal Payments                                           17
         2.8        Method of Selecting Types and Interest Periods for New Advances       17
         2.9        Conversion and Continuation of Outstanding Advances                   18
         2.10       Swing Line Advances                                                   19
                    -------------------
         2.11       Method of Borrowing                                                   21
                    -------------------
         2.12       Changes in Interest Rate                                              21
                    ------------------------
         2.13       Rates Applicable After Default                                        22
                    ------------------------------
         2.14       Method of Payment                                                     22
                    -----------------
         2.15       European Economic and Monetary Union                                  23
                    ------------------------------------
                    2.15.1.  Advances After the Euro Implementation Date                  23
                             -------------------------------------------
                    2.15.2  Rounding and Other Consequential Changes                      23
                            ----------------------------------------
         2.16       Noteless Agreement; Evidence of Indebtedness                          23
                    --------------------------------------------
         2.17       Telephonic Notices                                                    24
                    ------------------
         2.18       Interest Payment Dates; Interest and Fee Basis                        24
                    ----------------------------------------------
         2.19       Notification of Advances, Interest Rates, Prepayments and 
                    Revolving Credit Commitment Reductions                                25
         2.20       Lending Installations                                                 25
         2.21       Non-Receipt of Funds by the Agent                                     25
         2.22       Market Disruption                                                     25
         2.23       Judgment Currency                                                     26
         2.24       Taxes                                                                 26
         2.25       Agent's Fees                                                          28

         ARTICLE III

         CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES                                                          28
         3.1        Yield Protection                                                      28
         3.2        Changes in Capital Adequacy Regulations                               30
                    ---------------------------------------
         3.3        Availability of Types of Advances                                     30
                    ---------------------------------
         3.4        Funding Indemnification                                               30
                    -----------------------


<PAGE>


                                                        -1-
         3.5        Lender Statements; Survival of Indemnity                              31
ARTICLE IV

         CONDITIONS PRECEDENT                                                             31
         4.1        Amendment and Restatement                                             31
         4.2        Each Future Advance                                                   33
         ARTICLE V

         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES                                                   33
         ------------------------------
         5.1        Corporate Existence and Standing                                      33
                    --------------------------------
         5.2        Authorization and Validity                                            33
                    --------------------------
         5.3        Compliance with Laws and Contracts                                    34
                    ----------------------------------
         5.4        Governmental Consents                                                 34
                    ---------------------
         5.5        Financial Statements                                                  34
                    --------------------
         5.6        Material Adverse Change                                               35
                    -----------------------
         5.7        Taxes                                                                 35
         5.8        Litigation and Contingent Obligations                                 35
         5.9        Capitalization                                                        35
         5.10       ERISA                                                                 36
         5.11       Defaults                                                              36
         5.12       Federal Reserve Regulations                                           36
         5.13       Investment Company                                                    36
         5.14       Certain Fees                                                          36
                    ------------
         5.15       Solvency                                                              36
                    --------
         5.16       Ownership of Properties                                               37
                    -----------------------
         5.17       Indebtedness                                                          37
                    ------------
         5.18       Employee Controversies                                                37
                    ----------------------
         5.19       Material Agreements                                                   37
                    -------------------
         5.20       Hazardous Materials                                                   37
                    -------------------
         5.21       Year 2000                                                             38
                    ---------
         5.22       Insurance                                                             38
                    ---------
         5.23       Disclosure                                                            38
                    ----------
         5.24       Contracts                                                             39
                    ---------
ARTICLE VI

         COVENANTS                                                                        39
         6.1        Financial Reporting                                                   39
                    -------------------
         6.2        Use of Proceeds                                                       41
                    ---------------
         6.3        Notice of Default                                                     41
                    -----------------
         6.4        Conduct of Business                                                   41
                    -------------------
         6.5        Taxes                                                                 41
                    -----
         6.6        Insurance                                                             41
                    ---------
         6.7        Compliance with Laws                                                  42
                    --------------------
         6.8        Maintenance of Properties                                             42


<PAGE>


                                                        -1-
         6.9        Inspection                                                            42
         6.10       Capital Stock and Dividends                                           42
         6.11       Indebtedness                                                          42
                    ------------
         6.12       Merger                                                                43
                    ------
         6.13       Sale of Assets                                                        43
                    --------------
         6.14       Sale and Leaseback                                                    43
                    ------------------
         6.15       Investments and Purchases                                             44
         6.16       Contingent Obligations                                                44
         6.17       Liens                                                                 45
                    -----
         6.18       Capital Expenditures                                                  45
                    --------------------
         6.19       Lease Rentals                                                         46
                    -------------
         6.20       Year 2000                                                             46
                    ---------
         6.21       Letters of Credit                                                     46
                    -----------------
         6.22       Affiliates                                                            46
                    ----------
         6.23       Amendments to Agreements                                              46
                    ------------------------
         6.24       Environmental Matters                                                 46
                    ---------------------
         6.25       Agreements as to Prohibited Acts                                      47
                    --------------------------------
         6.26       Change in Corporate Structure; Fiscal Year                            47
         6.27       Inconsistent Agreements                                               47
         6.28       Financial Covenants.                                                  47
                    6.28.1  Interest Expense Coverage Ratio                               47
                    6.28.2.  Debt Ratio                                                   47
                    6.28.3.  Minimum Net Worth.                                           47
ARTICLE VII

         DEFAULTS                                                                         48
ARTICLE VIII

         ACCELERATION, WAIVERS, AMENDMENTS AND REMEDIES                                   50
         8.1        Acceleration                                                          50
         8.2        Amendments                                                            50
         8.3        Preservation of Rights                                                51
ARTICLE IX

         GENERAL PROVISIONS                                                               51
         9.1        Survival of Representations                                           51
         9.2        Governmental Regulation                                               51
         9.3        Taxes                                                                 51
                    -----
         9.4        Headings                                                              51
                    --------
         9.5        Entire Agreement                                                      51
                    ----------------
         9.6        Several Obligations; Benefits of this Agreement                       51
         9.7        Expenses; Indemnification                                             52
         9.8        Numbers of Documents                                                  53
         9.9        Accounting                                                            53


<PAGE>


                                                        -1-
         9.10       Severability of Provisions                                            53
         9.11       Nonliability of Lenders                                               53
         9.12       CHOICE OF LAW                                                         54
                    -------------
         9.13       CONSENT TO JURISDICTION                                               54
                    -----------------------
         9.14       WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL                                                  54
                    --------------------
         9.15       Disclosure                                                            54
                    ----------
         9.16       Counterparts                                                          55
                    ------------
                    9.17   Departing Lenders                                              55
ARTICLE X

         THE AGENT                                                                        55
         10.1       Appointment                                                           55
         10.2       Powers                                                                55
         10.3       General Immunity                                                      55
         10.4       No Responsibility for Loans, Recitals, etc.                           56
                    -------------------------------------------
         10.5       Action on Instructions of Lenders                                     56
                    ---------------------------------
         10.6       Employment of Agents and Counsel                                      56
                    --------------------------------
         10.7       Reliance on Documents; Counsel                                        56
                    ------------------------------
         10.8       Agent's Reimbursement and Indemnification                             56
                    -----------------------------------------
         10.9       Rights as a Lender                                                    57
         10.10      Lender Credit Decision                                                57
         10.11      Successor Agent                                                       57
         10.12      Notice of Default                                                     57
         10.13      Delegation to Affiliates                                              58
ARTICLE XI

         SETOFF; RATABLE PAYMENTS                                                         58
         11.1       Setoff                                                                58
         11.2       Ratable Payments                                                      58
ARTICLE XII

         BENEFIT OF AGREEMENT; ASSIGNMENTS; PARTICIPATIONS                                59
         12.1       Successors and Assigns                                                59
         12.2       Participations                                                        59
                    12.2.1.  Permitted Participants; Effect                               59
                    12.2.2.  Voting Rights                                                59
                    12.2.3.  Benefit of Setoff                                            60
         12.3       Assignments                                                           60
                    12.3.1.  Permitted Assignments                                        60
                    12.3.2.  Effect; Effective Date                                       60
         12.4       Dissemination of Information                                          60
         12.5       Tax Treatment                                                         61




<PAGE>


                                                        -1-
         ARTICLE XIII

         NOTICES                                                                          61
         13.1       Giving Notice                                                         61
         13.2       Change of Address                                                     61


</TABLE>

<PAGE>



                                                     EXHIBITS

Exhibit A             -    Revolving Credit Note
Exhibit B             -    Swing Line Note
Exhibit C             -    Compliance Certificate
Exhibit D             -    Assignment Agreement

                                                     SCHEDULES

Schedule 1.1        -      Eurocurrency Payment Offices of the Agent
Schedule 1.2        -      Lending Installations
Schedule 5.3        -      Approvals and Consents
Schedule 5.8        -      Litigation and Material Contingent Obligations
Schedule 5.9        -      Capitalization
Schedule 5.10       -      ERISA
Schedule 5.14       -      Brokers' Fees
Schedule 5.16       -      Properties
Schedule 5.17       -      Indebtedness
Schedule 5.20       -      Environmental
Schedule 5.22       -      Insurance
Schedule 6.11       -      1998 Senior Note Terms
Schedule 6.15       -      Investments
Schedule 6.17       -      Liens



<PAGE>




                                                                           68

                                                        -1-
         SECOND AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT


         This Amended and Restated  Credit  Agreement,  dated as of September 1,
1998,  is among  LITTELFUSE,  INC., a Delaware  corporation,  as  Borrower,  the
Lenders and THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO, individually and as Agent.


                                               W I T N E S S E T H:

         WHEREAS,  the Borrower has previously  entered into that certain Credit
Agreement  dated as of August 31, 1993 among the  Borrower,  the  lenders  named
therein and The First National Bank of Chicago, as Agent (as amended through but
not including  April 26, 1996,  the "Original  Credit  Agreement"),  pursuant to
which the lenders  thereunder  made a term loan and extended a revolving  credit
facility to the Borrower;

       WHEREAS, the Borrower has previously repaid the term loan to the Lenders;

         WHEREAS,  the Borrower has previously entered into that certain Amended
and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 26, 1996 among the Borrower, the
lenders  named  therein  and The First  National  Bank of  Chicago  as Agent (as
amended  through  but not  including  the  date  hereof,  the  "Existing  Credit
Agreement"),  pursuant to which the lenders  thereunder  increased the revolving
credit facility to $65,000,000 and made certain other amendments to the Original
Credit Agreement; and

                    WHEREAS,  the  Borrower,  the  Lenders and the Agent wish to
decrease the revolving  credit  facility to  $55,000,000  and make certain other
amendments to the Existing Credit Agreement;

         NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the  premises and of the mutual
agreements  made herein,  the Borrower,  the Agent and the Lenders hereby agree,
subject to the fulfilment of the conditions  precedent set forth in Section 4.1,
that the  Existing  Credit  Agreement  is hereby  amended  and  restated  in its
entirety as follows:



<PAGE>


                                                        -1-
1                                                   ARTICLE DEFINITIONS

         As used in this Agreement:

         "Advance"  means a  borrowing  hereunder  consisting  of the  aggregate
amount of the several Loans made on the same  Borrowing Date by the Lenders (or,
in the case of a Swing Line Advance, by the Swing Line Bank) to the Borrower (a)
of the same Type and (b) in the case of  Eurocurrency  Advances,  denominated in
the same Agreed Currency and for the same Interest  Period,  made by the Lenders
on the same Borrowing Date.

         "Affiliate" of any Person means any other Person directly or indirectly
controlling,  controlled by or under common  control with such Person.  A Person
shall be deemed to control another Person if the controlling  Person owns 10% or
more of any class of voting  securities  (or other  ownership  interests) of the
controlled Person or possesses,  directly or indirectly,  the power to direct or
cause the  direction of the  management  or policies of the  controlled  Person,
whether through ownership of stock, by contract or otherwise,  other than solely
through such Person's duties as an officer of the controlled Person.

         "Agent"   means  First   Chicago  in  its   capacity   as   contractual
representative  of the Lenders  pursuant to Article X, and not in its individual
capacity as a Lender, and any successor Agent appointed pursuant to Article X.

          "Aggregate  Commitment"  means the aggregate of the Commitments of all
     the Lenders hereunder.

         "Agreed  Currencies" means (a) Dollars,  (b) so long as such currencies
remain  Eligible  Currencies,  British Pounds  Sterling,  German Deutsche Marks,
Dutch Guilders,  French Francs, Swiss Francs,  Japanese Yen, and, from and after
becoming generally available in the international currency and exchange markets,
the Euro and (c) any other  Eligible  Currency  which the Borrower  requests the
Agent to include as an Agreed Currency  hereunder and which is acceptable to all
of the  Lenders.  For the  purposes  of this  definition,  each of the  specific
currencies  referred to in clause (b), above,  shall mean and be deemed to refer
to the lawful currency of the  jurisdiction  referred to in connection with such
currency,  e.g.,  "Swiss Francs" means the lawful currency of  Switzerland.  The
Agent shall  promptly  notify each Lender of each such request for  inclusion of
any currency  described  in the  immediately  preceding  clause (c) as an Agreed
Currency  and each Lender shall be deemed to have agreed to each such request if
its  objection  thereto  has not been  received  by the  Agent  within  five (5)
Business Days from the date of such notification by the Agent to such Lender.

         "Agreement" means this Credit Agreement, as it may be amended, modified
or restated and in effect from time to time.

         "Agreement  Accounting  Principles" means generally accepted accounting
principles as in effect from time to time,  applied in a manner  consistent with
those used in preparing the financial statements referred to in Section 5.5.

         "Air Regulations" is defined in Section 5.20.

         "Alternate Base Rate" means,  for any day, a rate of interest per annum
equal to the higher of (a) the Corporate  Base Rate for such day and (b) the sum
of the Federal Funds Effective Rate for such day plus 1/2% per annum.

         "Applicable  Commitment  Fee Rate" means,  at any time,  the percentage
rate per annum at which  commitment  fees are accruing on the unused  portion of
the Aggregate Commitment at such time as set forth in the Pricing Schedule.

         "Applicable  Margin" means, with respect to Advances of any Type at any
time,  the  percentage  rate per  annum  which is  applicable  at such time with
respect to Advances of such Type as set forth in the Pricing Schedule.

         "Approximate  Equivalent  Amount" of any  currency  with respect to any
amount of Dollars shall mean the Equivalent Amount of such currency with respect
to such  amount of  Dollars on or as of such  date,  rounded  up to the  nearest
smallest  denomination  of such currency as determined by the Agent from time to
time.

          "Arranger"  means First  Chicago  Capital  Markets,  Inc.,  a Delaware
     corporation, and its successors.

         "Article" means an article of this Agreement unless another document is
specifically referenced.

          "Authorized  Officer" means any of the Chief Executive Officer,  Chief
     Financial Officer or Controller of the Borrower, acting singly.

         "Bankruptcy  Code" means Title 11,  United  States Code,  sections 1 et
seq., as the same may be amended from time to time, and any successor thereto or
replacement therefor which may be hereafter enacted.

          "Borrower" means  Littelfuse,  Inc., a Delaware  corporation,  and its
               successors and assigns.

         "Borrowing Date" means a date on which an Advance is made hereunder.

         "Borrowing Notice" is defined in Section 2.8.

         "Business Day" means (a) with respect to any borrowing, payment or rate
selection of Eurocurrency  Advances,  a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on
which  banks  generally  are open in Chicago  and New York,  for the  conduct of
substantially all of their commercial  lending  activities and on which dealings
in  Dollars  and the  other  Agreed  Currencies  are  carried  on in the  London
interbank  market (and, if the Advances which are the subject of such borrowing,
payment  or rate  selection  are  denominated  in Euro,  a day upon  which  such
clearing  system as is  determined  by the Agent to be suitable  for clearing or
settlement of the Euro is open for business),  and (b) for all other purposes, a
day (other  than a Saturday  or Sunday)  on which  banks  generally  are open in
Chicago  for the  conduct  of  substantially  all of  their  commercial  lending
activities.

         "Capital Expenditures" means, without duplication, any expenditures for
any  purchase  or other  acquisition  for  value  of any  asset  which  would be
classified  as a fixed or capital asset on a  consolidated  balance sheet of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries  prepared in accordance with Agreement  Accounting
Principles  excluding (a) the cost of assets  acquired under  Capitalized  Lease
Obligations,  (b)  expenditures of insurance  proceeds to rebuild or replace any
asset after a casualty  loss,  and (c) leasehold  improvement  expenditures  for
which the Borrower or a Subsidiary is reimbursed promptly by the lessor.
         "Capitalization" means at any date the sum of (a) the Obligations as of
such date,  plus (b) all unpaid  principal of the 1993 Senior Notes and the 1998
Senior Notes as of such date,  plus (c) all unpaid  principal of other long-term
Indebtedness of the Borrower and its  Subsidiaries as of such date, plus (d) the
shareholders'  equity  of  the  Borrower  as of  such  date,  as  determined  in
accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.

         "Capitalized  Lease" of a Person  means any lease of  Property  by such
Person as lessee which would be  capitalized  on a balance  sheet of such Person
prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.

         "Capitalized  Lease  Obligations"  of a Person  means the amount of the
obligations  of such Person under  Capitalized  Leases which would be shown as a
liability  on a  balance  sheet  of such  Person  prepared  in  accordance  with
Agreement Accounting Principles.

         "CERCLA" is defined in Section 6.24.

         "Change" is defined in Section 3.2.

         "Change in Control" means the acquisition by any Person, or two or more
Persons acting in concert,  in each case other than Trust Company of the West or
any Affiliate thereof,  including without limitation an acquisition  effected by
means of any  transaction  contemplated  by Section 6.12 hereof,  of  beneficial
ownership  (within  the  meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the  Securities  and  Exchange
Commission  under  the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934) of 20% or more of the
outstanding shares of voting stock of the Borrower.

         "Closing Date" means August 31, 1993.

         "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, reformed or
otherwise modified from time to time.

         "Commitment"  means, for each Lender,  the obligation of such Lender to
make Loans not exceeding the amount set forth opposite its signature below or as
set forth in any Notice of Assignment relating to any assignment that has become
effective  pursuant to Section 12.3.2,  as such amount may be modified from time
to time pursuant to the terms hereof.

         "Computation Date" is defined in Section 2.2.

         "Condemnation" is defined in Section 7.8.

         "Consolidated"  or  "consolidated",  when used in  connection  with any
calculation,  means a calculation to be determined on a  consolidated  basis for
the  Borrower and its  Subsidiaries  in  accordance  with  Agreement  Accounting
Principles.

         "Contingent Obligation" of a Person means any agreement, undertaking or
arrangement by which such Person  assumes,  guarantees,  endorses,  contingently
agrees to purchase or provide funds for the payment of, or otherwise  becomes or
is contingently liable upon, the obligation or liability of any other Person, or
agrees to maintain the net worth or working capital or other financial condition
of any other  Person,  or  otherwise  assures any  creditor of such other Person
against loss,  including,  without  limitation,  any comfort  letter,  operating
agreement or take-or-pay contract or application for a Letter of Credit.

         "Controlled   Group"  means  all  members  of  a  controlled  group  of
corporations or other business entities and all trades or businesses (whether or
not incorporated) under common control which,  together with the Borrower or any
of its  Subsidiaries,  are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the
Code.

         "Conversion/Continuation Notice" is defined in Section 2.9.

         "Corporate  Base Rate"  means a rate per annum  equal to the  corporate
base rate of interest  announced by First  Chicago  from time to time,  changing
when and as said  corporate  base rate  changes.  The  Corporate  Base Rate is a
reference  rate and does not  necessarily  represent  the lowest or best rate of
interest  actually  charged to any customer.  First Chicago may make  commercial
loans or other loans at rates of interest at, above or below the Corporate  Base
Rate.

         "Debt Ratio"  means,  for any date,  the ratio of  Indebtedness  of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated  basis on such date to EBITDA of
the Borrower and its  Subsidiaries  on a consolidated  basis for the four fiscal
quarters ending on such date.

         "Default" means an event described in Article VII.

         "Departing  Lenders" means the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan,  Limited
and NationsBank, N.A.

         "Dollar  Amount" of any  currency at any date shall mean (a) the amount
of such  currency if such  currency is Dollars or (b) the  Equivalent  Amount of
Dollars if such currency is any currency  other than Dollars,  calculated on the
basis of the arithmetical mean of the buy and sell spot rates of exchange of the
Agent for such currency on the London  market at 11:00 a.m.,  London time, on or
as of the most recent Computation Date provided for in Section 2.2.

               "Dollars"  and "$" shall mean the lawful  currency  of the United
          States of America.

         "EBITDA" means Net Income plus, to the extent deducted from revenues in
determining  Net Income,  (a)  interest  expense,  (b) expense for taxes paid or
accrued,  (c)  depreciation,  (d)  amortization  and  (e)  extraordinary  losses
incurred  other than in the ordinary  course of business,  minus,  to the extent
included in Net Income,  extraordinary gains realized other than in the ordinary
course of business,  all calculated for the Borrower and its  Subsidiaries  on a
consolidated basis in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.

         "Eligible  Currency"  means any currency other than Dollars (a) that is
readily  available,  (b)  that is  freely  traded,  (c) in  which  deposits  are
customarily  offered  to banks in the  London  interbank  market,  (d)  which is
convertible  into Dollars in the  international  interbank  market and (e) as to
which an Equivalent Amount may be readily calculated.  If, after the designation
by the Lenders of any currency as an Agreed  Currency,  (i) currency  control or
other exchange  regulations are imposed in the country in which such currency is
issued with the result that  different  types of such  currency are  introduced,
(ii) such  currency is, in the  determination  of the Agent,  no longer  readily
available  or  freely  traded or (iii) in the  determination  of the  Agent,  an
Equivalent  Amount of such currency is not readily  calculable,  the Agent shall
promptly notify the Lenders and the Borrower,  and such currency shall no longer
be an Agreed  Currency  until such time as all of the Lenders agree to reinstate
such currency as an Agreed  Currency and promptly,  but in any event within five
Business  Days of receipt of such  notice  from the  Administrative  Agent,  the
Borrower  shall repay all Loans in such affected  currency or convert such Loans
into Loans in Dollars or another Agreed Currency, subject to the other terms set
forth in Article II.

         "Environmental Laws" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.20.

         "Equivalent  Amount"  of any  currency  with  respect  to any amount of
Dollars at any date shall mean the equivalent in such currency of such amount of
Dollars,  calculated on the basis of the  arithmetical  mean of the buy and sell
spot rates of  exchange  of the Agent for such  other  currency  at 11:00  a.m.,
London time, on the date on or as of which such amount is to be determined.

         "ERISA" means the Employee  Retirement  Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended from time to time, and any rule or regulation issued thereunder.

         "Euro"  and/or "EUR" means the euro  referred to in Council  Regulation
(EC) No.  1103/97  dated June 17,  1997  passed by the  Council of the  European
Union,  or, if different,  the then lawful  currency of the member states of the
European  Union that  participate  in the third stage of Economic  and  Monetary
Union.

         "Euro  Implementation Date" means the first date (currently expected to
be January 1, 1999) on which the Euro becomes the currency of some or all of the
member states of the European Union.

         "Eurocurrency" means any Agreed Currency.

         "Eurocurrency  Advance"  means an Advance  which bears  interest at the
applicable Eurocurrency Rate.

         "Eurocurrency Loan" means a Loan which bears interest at the applicable
Eurocurrency Rate.

         "Eurocurrency  Payment Office" of the Agent shall mean, for each of the
Agreed Currencies,  the office,  branch,  affiliate or correspondent bank of the
Agent  specified  as the  "Eurocurrency  Payment  Office"  for such  currency in
Schedule 1.1 hereto or such other  office,  branch,  affiliate or  correspondent
bank of the Agent as it may from time to time  specify to the  Borrower and each
Lender as its Eurocurrency Payment Office.

         "Eurocurrency  Rate" means, with respect to a Eurocurrency  Advance for
the  relevant  Interest  Period,  the  sum  of  (a)  the  quotient  of  (i)  the
Eurocurrency  Reference Rate applicable to such Interest Period, divided by (ii)
one minus the Reserve  Requirement  (expressed as a decimal)  applicable to such
Interest Period,  plus (b) the Applicable Margin. The Eurocurrency Rate shall be
rounded  to the  next  higher  multiple  of 1/16 of 1% if the rate is not such a
multiple.

         "Eurocurrency  Reference  Rate" means,  with respect to a  Eurocurrency
Advance for the relevant Interest Period, the rate determined by the Agent to be
the rate at which  First  Chicago  offers to place  deposits  in the  applicable
Agreed  Currency  with  first-class  banks in the  London  interbank  market  at
approximately  11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the first day
of such  Interest  Period,  in the  approximate  amount of the  First  Chicago's
relevant Eurocurrency Loan and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period.

         "Excluded Taxes" is defined in Section 2.24(a).

          "Exhibit"  refers to an  exhibit  to this  Agreement,  unless  another
          document is specifically referenced.

          "Existing  Credit  Agreement"  is  defined  in the  recitals  to  this
          Agreement.

          "Existing  Lenders"  means those lenders party to the Existing  Credit
          Agreement.

         "Facility Termination Date" means August 31, 2003.

         "Federal Funds Effective Rate" means, for any day, an interest rate per
annum equal to the  weighted  average of the rates on  overnight  Federal  funds
transactions  with  members of the Federal  Reserve  System  arranged by Federal
funds  brokers on such day, as published  for such day (or, if such day is not a
Business Day, for the immediately preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York,  or, if such rate is not so  published  for any day which is a
Business Day, the average of the quotations at approximately 10:00 a.m. (Chicago
time) on such day on such transactions  received by the Agent from three Federal
funds  brokers  of  recognized  standing  selected  by the  Agent  in  its  sole
discretion.

         "Financial Statements" is defined in Section 5.5.

         "First  Chicago"  means  The  First  National  Bank of  Chicago  in its
individual capacity, and its successors.

         "Floating Rate" means,  for any day, a rate of interest per annum equal
to the  Alternate  Base Rate for such day, in each case changing when and as the
Alternate Base Rate changes.

         "Floating  Rate Advance"  means an Advance which bears  interest at the
Floating Rate.

         "Floating  Rate Loan" means a Loan which bears interest at the Floating
Rate.

         "Governmental Authority" is defined in Section 2.24(a).

         "Indebtedness"  of a Person  means such  Person's (a)  obligations  for
borrowed money,  (b)  obligations  representing  the deferred  purchase price of
Property or services (other than accounts payable arising in the ordinary course
of such  Person's  business  payable  on  terms  customary  in the  trade),  (c)
obligations,  whether or not  assumed,  secured  by Liens or payable  out of the
proceeds or production  from Property now or hereafter owned or acquired by such
Person,  (d)  obligations  which are evidenced by notes,  acceptances,  or other
instruments,  (e)  obligations  of such Person to purchase  securities  or other
property  arising  out  of or in  connection  with  the  sale  of  the  same  or
substantially similar securities or property, (f) Capitalized Lease Obligations,
(g) Rate Hedging Obligations,  (h) Contingent  Obligations,  (i) obligations for
which such Person is obligated  pursuant to or in respect of a Letter of Credit,
and (j) Off-Balance Sheet Liabilities.

         "Interest Expense Coverage Ratio" means for any applicable  computation
period,  the  ratio  of  EBITDA  for  such  period  to the  Borrower's  and  its
Subsidiaries'  interest  expenses on a consolidated  basis for such period.  For
purposes of this definition only "interest expenses" shall mean the aggregate of
all interest  paid or accrued by the Borrower and its  Subsidiaries,  including,
without  limitation,  all  interest,  fees and costs payable with respect to the
Obligations,  the 1993 Senior  Notes and the 1998 Senior  Notes (other than fees
and costs which may be  capitalized  as  transaction  costs in  accordance  with
Agreement Accounting Principles),  the interest portion of any Capitalized Lease
payments,  and any dividends paid or accrued on the Borrower's  preferred stock,
all as determined in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.

         "Interest  Period"  means,  with respect to a Eurocurrency  Advance,  a
period of one, two, three or six months commencing on a Business Day selected by
the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.  Such Interest Period shall end on (but
exclude) the day which  corresponds  numerically to such date one, two, three or
six months thereafter;  provided,  however, that if there is no such numerically
corresponding  day in such next,  second,  third or sixth succeeding month, such
Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such next,  second,  third
or sixth  succeeding  month.  If an Interest Period would otherwise end on a day
which  is not a  Business  Day,  such  Interest  Period  shall  end on the  next
succeeding  Business  Day;  provided,  however,  that  if said  next  succeeding
Business Day falls in a new calendar  month,  such Interest  Period shall end on
the immediately preceding Business Day.

         "Investment"   of  a  Person  means  any  loan,   advance  (other  than
commission,  travel and similar  advances to officers and employees  made in the
ordinary  course  of  business),   extension  of  credit  (other  than  accounts
receivable  arising in the ordinary course of business on terms customary in the
trade),  deposit  account or contribution of capital by such Person to any other
Person or any  investment  in, or purchase or other  acquisition  of, the stock,
partnership interests,  notes,  debentures,  bonds, interests in mutual funds or
other securities  owned by such Person;  any deposit accounts and certificate of
deposit  owned  by such  Person;  and  structured  notes,  derivative  financial
instruments and other similar instruments or contracts owned by such Person.

         "Lenders" means the lending  institutions listed on the signature pages
of this Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
         "Lending  Installation"  means,  with respect to a Lender or the Agent,
any office,  branch,  subsidiary  or  affiliate of such Lender or the Agent with
respect to each Agreed  Currency  listed on Schedule 1.2 or, with respect to any
Lender, on the  administrative  information sheets provided to the Agent by such
Lender in connection  herewith or otherwise selected by such Lender or the Agent
pursuant to Section 2.20.

         "Letter  of  Credit"  of a Person  means a letter of credit or  similar
instrument  which is issued  upon the  application  of such Person or upon which
such Person is an account party or for which such Person is in any way liable.

         "Lien"  means  any  lien  (statutory  or  other),   mortgage,   pledge,
hypothecation,  assignment,  deposit  arrangement,  encumbrance  or  preference,
priority or other security agreement or preferential  arrangement of any kind or
nature whatsoever  (including,  without limitation,  the interest of a vendor or
lessor under any conditional  sale,  Capitalized  Lease or other title retention
agreement).

         "Loan" means, with respect to a Lender or the Swing Line Bank, any loan
made by such Lender or the Swing Line Bank  pursuant  hereto,  and "Loans" means
with  respect  to the  Lenders  and the Swing Line Bank,  the  aggregate  of all
Advances.

         "Loan  Documents"  means  this  Agreement,  the  Notes  and  the  other
documents  and  agreements  contemplated  hereby and executed by the Borrower in
favor of the Agent or any Lender.

     "Margin Stock" has the meaning assigned to such term under Regulation U.

         "Material  Adverse  Effect" means a material  adverse effect on (a) the
business, Property, condition (financial or otherwise),  performance, results of
operations or prospects of the Borrower and its  Subsidiaries  taken as a whole,
(b) the ability of the  Borrower or any  Subsidiary  to perform its  obligations
under the Loan Documents,  or (c) the validity or  enforceability  of any of the
Loan Documents or the rights or remedies of the Agent or the Lenders thereunder.

         "Multiemployer  Plan" means a Plan maintained  pursuant to a collective
bargaining  agreement  or any other  arrangement  to which the  Borrower  or any
member of the  Controlled  Group is a party to which more than one  employer  is
obligated to make contributions.

         "National  Currency Unit" means the unit of currency (other than a Euro
unit) of each member state of the European Union that  participates in the third
stage of Economic and Monetary Union.

         "Net Income" means,  for any  computation  period,  with respect to the
Borrower  on  a  consolidated  basis  with  its  Subsidiaries  (other  than  any
Subsidiary  which is restricted from declaring or paying  dividends or otherwise
advancing funds to its parent whether by contract or otherwise),  cumulative net
income  earned  during  such  period in  accordance  with  Agreement  Accounting
Principles.

         "Net Worth"  means at any date the  consolidated  common  stockholders'
equity  of  the  Borrower  and  its  consolidated   Subsidiaries  determined  in
accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.

         "1993 Senior Note Agreement"  means,  collectively,  those certain Note
Purchase  Agreements  entered into between the Borrower and each purchaser named
therein,  dated as of August 31,  1993,  as the same has been or may be amended,
supplemented or modified.

         "1993  Senior Note  Documents"  means the 1993 Senior  Notes,  the 1993
Senior  Note  Agreement  and the  other  documents  executed  and  delivered  in
connection therewith.

         "1993 Senior  Notes" means those  certain 6.31% Senior Notes due August
31, 2000,  issued by the Borrower  pursuant to the 1993 Senior Note Agreement in
the aggregate principal amount of $45,000,000.

         "1998  Senior  Note  Agreement"   means,  that  certain  Note  Purchase
Agreement  which may be entered into  between the  Borrower  and each  purchaser
named therein,  as the same may be amended,  supplemented  or modified after the
Restatement Date.

         "1998  Senior Note  Documents"  means the 1998 Senior  Notes,  the 1998
Senior  Note  Agreement  and the  other  documents  executed  and  delivered  in
connection therewith.

         "1998  Senior  Notes"  means  those  certain  6.16%  Senior  Notes  due
September  1, 2005  which may be issued  by the  Borrower  pursuant  to the 1998
Senior Note Agreement in the aggregate principal amount of $60,000,000.

         "Note" is defined in Section 2.16.

         "Notice of Assignment" is defined in Section 12.3.2.

         "Obligations"  means all unpaid  principal  of and  accrued  and unpaid
interest  on  the  Notes,   all  accrued  and  unpaid  fees  and  all  expenses,
reimbursements, indemnities and other obligations of the Borrower to the Lenders
or to any Lender, the Agent or any indemnified party hereunder arising under any
of the Loan Documents.

         "Off Balance  Sheet  Liability"  of a Person  means (a) any  repurchase
obligation  or  liability  of such  Person  with  respect to  accounts  or notes
receivable  sold by such Person,  (b) any liability under any Sale and Leaseback
Transaction  which  does not create a  liability  on the  balance  sheet of such
Person,  (c) any  liability  under any financing  lease or so-called  "synthetic
lease"  transaction  entered into by such Person or (d) any  obligation  arising
with respect to any other transaction  which is the functional  equivalent of or
takes the place of  borrowing  but which does not  constitute a liability on the
balance sheets of such Person, but excluding Operating Leases.

         "Operating Lease" of a Person means any lease of Property (other than a
Capitalized  Lease)  by  such  Person  as  lessee  which  has an  original  term
(including any required renewals and any renewals effective at the option of the
lessor) of one year or more.

          "Original  Credit  Agreement"  is  defined  in the  recitals  to  this
          Agreement.

         "Original Currency" is defined in Section 2.14(b).

         "Participants" is defined in Section 12.2.1.

          "Payment Date" means the last day of each March,  June,  September and
          December.

          "PBGC"  means  the  Pension  Benefit  Guaranty  Corporation,   or  any
          successor thereto.

         "Person" means any natural person,  corporation,  firm,  joint venture,
partnership, limited liability company, association,  enterprise, trust or other
entity or  organization,  or any  government  or  political  subdivision  or any
agency, department or instrumentality thereof.

         "Plan" means an employee pension benefit plan which is covered by Title
IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the
Code as to which the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group may have any
liability.

          "Pricing  Schedule" means the Schedule  attached hereto  identified as
          such.

         "Property"  of a  Person  means  any and all  property,  whether  real,
personal, tangible, intangible, or mixed, of such Person, or other assets owned,
leased or operated by such Person.

         "Pro-rata" means, when used with respect to a Lender, and any described
aggregate or total amount,  an amount equal to such Lender's  pro-rata  share or
portion based on its percentage of the Aggregate  Commitment or if the Aggregate
Commitment has been terminated, its percentage of the aggregate principal amount
of outstanding Advances.

         "Purchase"   means  any   transaction,   or  any   series  of   related
transactions,  consummated on or after the date of this Agreement,  by which the
Borrower or any of its  Subsidiaries  (a) acquires any going  business or all or
substantially  all of the assets of any firm,  corporation or limited  liability
company,  division  thereof,  whether  through  purchase  of  assets,  merger or
otherwise,  or (b) directly or indirectly acquires (in one transaction or as the
most recent  transaction  in a series of  transactions)  at least a majority (in
number of votes) of the securities of a corporation  which have ordinary  voting
power for the election of  directors  (other than  securities  having such power
only by reason of the happening of a  contingency)  or a majority (by percentage
or voting power) of the  outstanding  ownership  interests of a  partnership  or
limited liability company.

         "Purchasers" is defined in Section 12.3.1.

         "Rate Hedging Obligations" of a Person means any and all obligations of
such  Person,  whether  absolute or  contingent  and  howsoever  and  whensoever
created, arising, evidenced or acquired (including all renewals,  extensions and
modifications  thereof  and  substitutions  therefor),  under  (a)  any  and all
agreements,  devices  or  arrangements  designed  to protect at least one of the
parties  thereto from the  fluctuations  of interest  rates,  exchange  rates or
forward  rates  applicable  to such  party's  assets,  liabilities  or  exchange
transactions,   including,   but   not   limited   to,   dollar-denominated   or
cross-currency  interest rate exchange  agreements,  forward  currency  exchange
agreements,  interest  rate cap or collar  protection  agreements,  forward rate
currency  or  interest  rate  options,  puts and  warrants,  and (b) any and all
cancellations,  buybacks,  reversals,  terminations or assignments of any of the
foregoing.

         "Regulation  D" means  Regulation  D of the Board of  Governors  of the
Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor  thereto
or other  regulation  or  official  interpretation  of said  Board of  Governors
relating  to reserve  requirements  applicable  to member  banks of the  Federal
Reserve System.

         "Regulation  T" means  Regulation  T of the Board of  Governors  of the
Federal  Reserve  System  from time to time in  effect  and  shall  include  any
successor  or other  regulation  or  official  interpretation  of such  Board of
Governors  relating to the extension of credit by securities brokers and dealers
for the purpose of  purchasing  or carrying  margin  stocks  applicable  to such
Persons.

         "Regulation  U" means  Regulation  U of the Board of  Governors  of the
Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor or other
regulation or official interpretation of said Board of Governors relating to the
extension of credit by banks for the purpose of  purchasing  or carrying  margin
stocks applicable to such Persons.

         "Regulation  X" means  Regulation  X of the Board of  Governors  of the
Federal  Reserve  System  from time to time in  effect  and  shall  include  any
successor  or other  regulation  or  official  interpretation  of said  Board of
Governors  relating to the extension of credit by the specified  lenders for the
purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks applicable to such Persons.

         "Rentals" of a Person means the aggregate fixed amounts payable by such
Person under any lease of Property,  including  without  limitation  Capitalized
Leases having an original term (including any required  renewals or any renewals
at the option of the lessor or lessee) of one year or more.

         "Reportable  Event" means a reportable event as defined in Section 4043
of ERISA and the regulations issued under such section,  with respect to a Plan,
excluding,  however,  such events as to which the PBGC has by regulation  waived
the  requirement of Section  4043(a) of ERISA that it be notified within 30 days
of the occurrence of such event;  provided,  however, that a failure to meet the
minimum funding  standard of Section 412 of the Code and of Section 302 of ERISA
shall be a Reportable Event regardless of the issuance of any such waiver of the
notice requirement in accordance with either Section 4043(a) of ERISA or Section
412(d) of the Code.

         "Required  Lenders"  means  Lenders  in the  aggregate  having at least
66-2/3% of the Aggregate  Commitment  or, if the Aggregate  Commitment  has been
terminated,  Lenders in the aggregate holding at least 66-2/3% of the Equivalent
Amount of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the outstanding Loans.

         "Reserve  Requirement"  means, with respect to an Interest Period,  the
maximum  aggregate  reserve  requirement  (including  all  basic,  supplemental,
marginal  and other  reserves)  of general  application  which is imposed  under
Regulation D on Eurocurrency liabilities.

         "Restatement Date" means September 1, 1998.

         "Revolving  Credit Advance" means an Advance made by the Lenders to the
Borrower pursuant to Section 2.1.

         "Revolving Credit Loan" means, with respect to a Lender,  such Lender's
pro-rata portion of all Revolving Credit Advances.

         "Risk-Based Capital Guidelines" is defined in Section 3.2.

         "Sale and Leaseback  Transaction"  means any sale or other  transfer of
Property by any Person with the intent to lease such Property as lessee.

         "Section" means a numbered  section of this  Agreement,  unless another
document is specifically referenced.

         "Single  Employer Plan" means a Plan  maintained by the Borrower or any
member of the  Controlled  Group for  employees of the Borrower or any member of
the Controlled Group.

         "Solvent" means, when used with respect to a Person,  that (a) the fair
saleable  value of the assets of such Person is in excess of the total amount of
the present value of its liabilities  (including for purposes of this definition
all liabilities (including loss reserves as determined by the Borrower), whether
or not  reflected  on a balance  sheet  prepared in  accordance  with  Agreement
Accounting  Principles  and whether  direct or  indirect,  fixed or  contingent,
secured or unsecured,  disputed or  undisputed),  (b) such Person is able to pay
its debts or  obligations  in the  ordinary  course as they  mature and (c) such
Person does not have  unreasonably  small  capital to carry out its  business as
conducted and as proposed to be conducted.  "Solvency"  shall have a correlative
meaning.

         "Subsidiary" of a Person means (a) any corporation more than 50% of the
outstanding  securities  having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time
be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more
of its  Subsidiaries or by such Person and one or more of its  Subsidiaries,  or
(b) any partnership,  limited liability company,  association,  joint venture or
similar business  organization  more than 50% of the ownership  interests having
ordinary  voting  power  of which  shall at the time be so owned or  controlled.
Unless otherwise  expressly  provided,  all references  herein to a "Subsidiary"
shall mean a Subsidiary of the Borrower.

         "Substantial  Portion"  means,  with  respect  to the  Property  of the
Borrower and its  Subsidiaries,  Property which (a) represents  more than 10% of
the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries,  as would be shown
in the consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as
at the end of the quarter next preceding the date on which such determination is
made, or (b) is responsible for more than 10% of the  consolidated  net sales or
of the  consolidated  net income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the 12
month  period  ending as of the end of the quarter  next  preceding  the date of
determination.

         "Swing Line  Advance"  means a borrowing  hereunder  consisting  of the
aggregate  amount of the Swing Line  Loan(s)  made by the Swing Line Bank to the
Borrower on the same Borrowing Date pursuant to Section 2.10.

          "Swing Line Bank" means First  Chicago and its  respective  successors
          and assigns.

         "Swing Line Commitment  Amount" means the maximum  principal  amount of
Swing Line Loans  which the Swing Line Bank may,  in its sole  discretion,  make
pursuant to Section 2.10, as the same may be terminated or  permanently  reduced
from time to time hereunder.  The initial Swing Line Commitment  Amount shall be
$5,000,000.  The Swing Line Commitment Amount will automatically and permanently
reduce to $0 on the Facility Termination Date.

         "Swing  Line Loan"  means a Loan made in Dollars by the Swing Line Bank
pursuant to Section 2.10.

          "Tax Sharing  Agreement" means that certain Tax  Indebtedness  Sharing
     Agreement  dated as of December 27, 1991 between  Littelfuse,  Inc. and the
     other parties listed therein.

         "Taxes" is defined in Section 2.24(a).

         "Transferee" is defined in Section 12.4.

         "Type"  means,  with respect to any  Advance,  its nature as a Floating
Rate Advance or Eurocurrency Advance.

         "Unfunded  Liabilities"  means the amount (if any) by which the present
value of all accrued  (vested and unvested)  benefits under all Single  Employer
Plans  exceeds the fair market  value of all such Plan assets  allocable to such
benefits,  all  determined  as of the then most recent  valuation  date for such
Plans and valued on a basis  consistent with that used to prepare the Borrower's
annual audited financial statements.

         "Unmatured  Default"  means an event which but for the lapse of time or
the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a Default.

         "Unrefunded Swing Line Loans" is defined in Section 2.10(d).

          "U.S. Lender" means a Lender incorporated under the laws of the United
     States of America or a state thereof.

         "Utilization"  means, for any calendar  quarter,  a percentage equal to
the average aggregate principal amount of Loans outstanding during such calendar
quarter  divided  by the  Aggregate  Commitment  as of the end of such  calendar
quarter.

         "Wholly-Owned  Subsidiary"  of a Person means (a) any Subsidiary all of
the  outstanding  voting  securities  of  which  shall  at the  time be owned or
controlled,  directly or indirectly,  by such Person or one or more Wholly-Owned
Subsidiaries  of such  Person,  or by such  Person and one or more  Wholly-Owned
Subsidiaries of such Person, or (b) any partnership,  limited liability company,
association,  joint  venture  or  similar  business  organization  100%  of  the
ownership  interests  having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be
so owned or controlled.

         "Year 2000 Issues" means anticipated costs,  problems and uncertainties
associated  with the inability of certain  computer  applications to effectively
handle data  including  dates on and after  January 1, 2000,  as such  inability
affects the business, operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries  and of the Borrower's and its  Subsidiaries'  material  customers,
suppliers and vendors.

         "Year 2000 Program" is defined in Section 5.21.

         The  foregoing  definitions  shall be  equally  applicable  to both the
singular and plural forms of the defined terms.

1                                                   ARTICLE THE CREDITS

1.1  Commitment . From and  including  the date hereof to but not  including the
Facility  Termination  Date, each Lender severally (and not jointly) agrees,  on
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, to make pro-rata Revolving
Credit  Advances  to the  Borrower  in  Agreed  Currencies  from time to time in
amounts not to exceed in the  aggregate at any one time  outstanding  the Dollar
Amount of its Commitment, less the amount of such Lender's pro-rata share of the
outstanding  principal  amount of all Swing Line Advances  (regardless  of which
Lender made such Swing Line  Advances)  exclusive of Swing Line  Advances  being
repaid  substantially  contemporaneously  with the making of any such  Revolving
Credit Advances; provided that all Floating Rate Loans shall be made in Dollars.
Subject to the terms of this  Agreement,  the  Borrower  may  borrow,  repay and
reborrow Revolving Credit Advances at any time prior to the Facility Termination
Date. The Commitments to lend hereunder shall expire on the Facility Termination
Date. 1.2 1.3 Determination of Dollar Amounts; Required Payments;  Termination .
1.4 1.5 (a) The Agent  will  determine  the  Dollar  Amount of: 1.6 1.7 (i) each
Advance  as of the date two  Business  Days prior to the  Borrowing  Date or, if
applicable,  date of  conversion/continuation  of such Advance; and 1.8 (ii) all
outstanding Revolving Credit Advances on and as of the last Business Day of each
quarter and on any other  Business Day elected by the Agent in its discretion or
upon instruction by the Required Lenders.  1.9 1.10 Each day upon or as of which
the Agent  determines  Dollar Amounts as described in the preceding  clauses (i)
and (ii) is herein  described  as a  "Computation  Date"  with  respect  to each
Revolving  Credit  Advance for which a Dollar  Amount is  determined on or as of
such day. If at any time the Dollar Amount of the sum of the aggregate principal
amount of all  outstanding  Revolving  Credit  Advances and Swing Line  Advances
(calculated,  with respect to those Advances  denominated  in Agreed  Currencies
other than Dollars,  as of the most recent Computation Date with respect to each
such Advance) exceeds the Aggregate  Commitment,  the Borrower shall immediately
repay  Revolving  Credit  Advances  and  Swing  Line  Advances  in an  aggregate
principal  amount  sufficient to eliminate  any such excess.  If at any time the
Dollar Amount of the aggregate principal amount of all Revolving Credit Advances
denominated in Agreed  Currencies other than Dollars  (calculated as of the most
recent  Computation  Date) exceeds  $10,000,000,  the Borrower will  immediately
repay Revolving Credit Advances so denominated in an aggregate  principal amount
sufficient to eliminate  any such excess.  1.11 1.12 (b) Each  Revolving  Credit
Advance shall mature,  and the principal  amount  thereof and the unpaid accrued
interest  thereon  shall  be  due  and  payable  along  with  all  other  unpaid
Obligations,  on the Facility  Termination  Date. 1.13 1.14 Ratable Loans . Each
Advance  hereunder  shall consist of Loans made from the several Lenders ratably
in  proportion  to the  ratio  that  their  respective  Commitments  bear to the
Aggregate Commitment. 1.15 1.16 Types of Advances . The Advances may be Floating
Rate Advances,  Eurocurrency Advances, or a combination thereof, selected by the
Borrower in  accordance  with  Sections  2.8 and 2.9;  provided  that the Dollar
Amount of Revolving Credit Advances  denominated in Agreed Currencies other than
Dollars  may  not at any  time  exceed  $10,000,000.  1.17  (a)  Commitment  and
Utilization  Fees;  Reductions in Aggregate  Commitment . The Borrower agrees to
pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment  fee at a per annum
rate equal to the Applicable  Commitment Fee Rate on the daily unused portion of
such Lender's Commitment (based on the Equivalent Amount of the principal amount
of the aggregate  Loans  (determined,  with respect to each Loan, as of the date
such Loan was made or, in the case of a Loan which has been continued,  upon the
date of  continuation)  from the  date  hereof  to and  including  the  Facility
Termination  Date,  payable in arrears on each Payment Date hereafter and on the
Facility  Termination Date. All accrued  commitment fees shall be payable on the
effective  date of any  termination  of the  obligations  of the Lenders to make
Loans hereunder.  For purposes of calculating the commitment fee hereunder,  (i)
Swing Line Loans shall not  constitute  usage  hereunder  and (ii) the principal
amount of each Advance made in an Agreed Currency other than Dollars shall be at
any time the Dollar  Amount of such  Advance as  determined  on the most  recent
Computation Date with respect to such Advance.  (b) (c) The Borrower also agrees
to pay to the Agent for the pro-rata  account of the Lenders a  utilization  fee
for each  calendar  quarter that  Utilization  is greater than 50% from the date
hereof to and including the later of the Facility  Termination Date and the date
all Advances and other  Obligations are paid in full. Such utilization fee shall
be payable on each Payment Date and on the Facility  Termination  Date and shall
be equal to .05% per  annum  multiplied  by the  average  aggregate  outstanding
principal  amount of the  Advances  during such  calendar  quarter.  (d) (e) The
Borrower may  permanently  reduce the Aggregate  Commitment in whole, or in part
ratably  among the Lenders in a minimum  aggregate  amount of  $1,000,000 or any
integral  multiple  of $100,000 in excess  thereof,  upon at least two  Business
Days' written notice to the Agent,  which notice shall specify the amount of any
such reduction;  provided,  however, that the amount of the Aggregate Commitment
may  not  be  reduced  below  the  aggregate  principal  Dollar  Amount  of  the
outstanding Revolving Credit Advances. (f) 1.18 Minimum Amount of Each Advance .
Each Eurocurrency  Advance shall be in the minimum amount having a Dollar Amount
of  $1,000,000  (and in  multiples of $500,000 if in excess  thereof),  and each
Floating  Rate  Advance  shall be in the  minimum  amount  of  $500,000  (and in
multiples of $100,000 if in excess  thereof);  provided,  however,  that (a) any
Floating  Rate Advance may be in the amount of the unused  Aggregate  Commitment
and (b) in no event shall more than six (6)  Eurocurrency  Advances be permitted
to be  outstanding  at any time.  1.19 1.20  Optional  Principal  Payments . The
Borrower may from time to time pay, without penalty or premium,  all outstanding
Floating Rate  Advances,  or, in a minimum  aggregate  amount of $500,000 or any
integral multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof,  any portion of the outstanding
Floating Rate  Advances  upon one (1) Business  Day's prior notice to the Agent.
The  Borrower  may from time to time pay,  subject to the payment of any funding
indemnification  amounts required by Section 3.4 but without penalty or premium,
all outstanding  Eurocurrency  Advances,  or, in a minimum  aggregate  amount of
$1,000,000  or any  integral  multiple  of  $500,000  in excess  thereof (or the
Approximate  Equivalent  Amount if denominated in an Agreed  Currency other than
Dollars),  any  portion  of the  outstanding  Eurocurrency  Advances  upon three
Business  Days' prior notice to the Agent.  1.21 1.22 Method of Selecting  Types
and Interest  Periods for New  Advances . The Borrower  shall select the Type of
Advance and, in the case of each Eurocurrency  Advance,  the Interest Period and
Agreed Currency applicable to each Advance from time to time. The Borrower shall
give the Agent  irrevocable  notice (a  "Borrowing  Notice") not later than 2:00
p.m.  (Chicago  time) at least one (1) Business Day before the Borrowing Date of
each Floating Rate Advance and not later than 10:00 a.m. (Chicago time) at least
three (3) Business Days before the Borrowing Date for each Eurocurrency Advance,
specifying:  1.23 (a) the Borrowing Date, which shall be a Business Day, of such
Advance;

(a) the aggregate  amount of such Advance,  which,  when added to the Equivalent
Amount of all outstanding Revolving Credit Advances and Swing Line Advances, and
after  giving  effect to the  repayment of any  outstanding  Advances out of the
proceeds of the requested  Advance,  shall not exceed the Aggregate  Commitment;
(b) (c) the Type of Advance selected; and

(a)                 in the  case  of each  Eurocurrency  Advance,  the  Interest
                    Period and Agreed Currency applicable thereto.

(a) Conversion and Continuation of Outstanding Advances . Floating Rate Advances
shall  continue as Floating  Rate  Advances  unless and until such Floating Rate
Advances are converted into  Eurocurrency  Advances pursuant to this Section 2.9
or are repaid in accordance  with Section 2.7. Each  Eurocurrency  Advance shall
continue  as a  Eurocurrency  Advance  until  repaid  or the  end  of  the  then
applicable  Interest  Period  therefor,   at  which  time:  (b)  (i)  each  such
Eurocurrency  Advance  denominated in Dollars shall be  automatically  converted
into a Floating
                    Rate Advance unless (x) such Eurocurrency  Advance is or was
                    repaid in  accordance  with  Section 2.7 or (y) the Borrower
                    shall have given the Agent a Conversion/Continuation  Notice
                    (as  defined  below)  requesting  that,  at the  end of such
                    Interest Period,  such Eurocurrency  Advance either continue
                    as a Eurocurrency  Advance for the same or another  Interest
                    Period or be converted into a Floating Rate Advance; and

(i)                 Each  such  Eurocurrency  Advance  denominated  in an Agreed
                    Currency other than Dollars shall automatically  continue as
                    a Eurocurrency  Advance in the same Agreed  Currency with an
                    Interest  Period of one month  unless (x) such  Eurocurrency
                    Advance is or was repaid in  accordance  with Section 2.7 or
                    (y)   the   Borrower   shall   have   given   the   Agent  a
                    Conversion/Continuation Notice (as defined below) requesting
                    that, at the end of such Interest Period,  such Eurocurrency
                    Advance  continue as a Eurocurrency  Advance for the same or
                    another Interest Period.

Subject to the terms of Section 2.6, the Borrower may elect from time to time to
convert  all or any part of an  Advance of any Type into any other Type or Types
of Advances denominated in the same or any other Agreed Currency; provided, that
any  conversion of any  Eurocurrency  Advance shall be made on, and only on, the
last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto.

(a)               The  Borrower  shall  give the  Agent  irrevocable  notice  (a
                  "Conversion/Continuation  Notice")  of each  conversion  of an
                  Advance or  continuation  of a Eurocurrency  Advance not later
                  than 2:00 p.m.  (Chicago  time) at least one (1) Business Day,
                  in the case of a conversion  into a Floating Rate Advance,  or
                  not later than 10:00 a.m.  (Chicago  time) three (3)  Business
                  Days, in the case of a conversion  into or  continuation  of a
                  Eurocurrency  Advance,  prior  to the  date  of the  requested
                  conversion or continuation, specifying:

     (i)  the requested  date which shall be a Business Day, of such  conversion
          or continuation;

     (i)  the Agreed Currency; and

     (i)  the amount and Type(s) of Advance(s)  into which such Advance is to be
          converted  or  continued  and,  in the  case of a  conversion  into or
          continuation of a Eurocurrency  Advance,  the duration of the Interest
          Period applicable thereto.

1.1               Swing Line Advances .
1.2
1.3 (a) On the  terms  and  subject  to the  conditions  and  relying  upon  the
representations and warranties herein set forth, the Swing Line Bank may, in its
sole  discretion,  from time to time from and  including  the date hereof to but
excluding the earlier of the Facility  Termination  Date and the  termination of
the Commitments,  in accordance with the terms hereof,  make Swing Line Loans to
the Borrower in an aggregate  principal  amount at any time  outstanding  not to
exceed the least of (i) the amount of the Swing  Line  Commitment  at such time,
(ii)  the  amount  which,  when  added  to the  aggregate  principal  amount  of
outstanding  Swing  Line  Loans  and the Swing  Line  Bank's  pro-rata  share of
outstanding  Revolving Credit Loans, exceeds the amount of the Swing Line Bank's
Commitment,  and (iii) an amount equal to (x) the  Aggregate  Commitment at such
time minus (y) the sum of the aggregate principal Dollar Amount of all Revolving
Credit Loans and Swing Line Loans outstanding at such time. Each Swing Line Loan
shall be made by the Swing Line Bank at the  Alternate  Base Rate (or such other
rate as may be agreed to by the Borrower and the Swing Line Bank) and may not be
converted  pursuant to Section 2.9 into a Eurocurrency  Advance.  All Swing Line
Loans shall be in a minimum amount of $1,000,000 and in any integral multiple of
$500,000  if in excess  thereof.  In no event  shall any Swing Line Loan be made
hereunder  if the Agent and the Swing  Line Bank  shall  have  received  written
notice  from the  Required  Lenders  prior to any such  Swing  Line  Loan that a
condition  specified  in  Section  4.1 or 4.2 has not  been  satisfied  and such
condition  shall not have been  subsequently  waived in compliance  with Section
8.2.
1.4
1.5 (b) The  Borrower  shall give the Swing Line Bank (with a copy to the Agent)
telephonic,  written or telecopy notice (in the case of telephonic notice,  such
notice shall be promptly  confirmed  in writing or by  telecopy)  not later than
3:00 p.m., Chicago time, on a day of a proposed Swing Line Advance.  Such notice
shall be delivered on a Business Day,  shall be  irrevocable  and shall refer to
this Agreement and shall specify the requested  Borrowing Date (which shall be a
Business  Day) and the amount of such Swing  Line  Advance.  The Swing Line Bank
shall by 4:00 p.m.,  Chicago  time, on the requested  Borrowing  Date,  make the
requested  Swing  Line  Loan by  crediting  the  principal  amount  thereof,  in
immediately  available funds, to the account of the Borrower maintained with the
Swing Line Bank unless  such  Advance  shall not occur on such date  because any
condition  precedent  herein specified shall not have been met or the Swing Line
Bank  elects not to make the  requested  Swing  Line Loan.  Each Swing Line Loan
shall be repaid with accrued  interest on the thirteenth  Business Day following
the Borrowing  Date thereof;  provided that each Swing Line Loan may on a single
occasion be extended as described in Section  2.10(c)(i)(y)  below.  1.6 1.7 (c)
Notwithstanding  the  occurrence  of  any  Default  or  noncompliance  with  the
conditions  precedent  set forth in Article IV, if (i) any Swing Line Loan shall
remain  outstanding  at 10 a.m.  (Chicago  time)  on the  twelfth  Business  Day
following  the  Borrowing  Date  thereof  and if by such  time  on such  twelfth
Business  Day the Agent  shall have  received  neither  (x) a  Borrowing  Notice
delivered  by the Borrower  pursuant to Section 2.8  requesting  that  Revolving
Credit Loans be made on the immediately  succeeding Business Day in an amount at
least equal to the  aggregate  principal  amount of such Swing Line Loan,  (y) a
written  request that such Swing Line Loan be extended for an additional  period
of thirteen (13) Business Days, which request has been consented to by the Swing
Line Bank,  nor (z) any other notice  satisfactory  to the Agent  indicating the
Borrower's  intent  to repay  all  such  Swing  Line  Loans  on or  before  such
succeeding  Business Day with funds obtained from other sources,  or (ii) on any
date the Swing Line Bank in its sole discretion shall so request with respect to
the outstanding  Swing Line Loans,  the Agent shall be deemed to have received a
Borrowing  Notice from the Borrower  pursuant to Section 2.8 requesting  that an
Advance of  Revolving  Credit  Loans at the  Floating  Rate be made  pursuant to
Section 2.1 on such succeeding  Business Day in an amount equal to the aggregate
amount of such Swing Line Loans,  and the  procedures  set forth in Section 2.11
shall be followed in making  such  Revolving  Credit  Loans;  provided  that the
proceeds  of  such  Revolving  Credit  Loans  received  by the  Agent  shall  be
immediately delivered to the Swing Line Bank and applied to the direct repayment
of such Swing Line Loans.  Effective on the day such Revolving  Credit Loans are
made,  the  portion  of the  Swing  Line  Loans so  repaid  shall no  longer  be
outstanding  as Swing Line Loans and shall be  outstanding  as Revolving  Credit
Loans of the Lenders  bearing  interest at a rate determined by reference to the
Floating  Rate,  in  accordance  with the  provisions  of this  Article  II. The
Borrower  authorizes  the Agent and the Swing Line Bank to charge the Borrower's
account  maintained with the Swing Line Bank (up to the amount available in such
account) in order to  immediately  pay the amount of any Swing Line Loans to the
extent  amounts  received  from the Lenders are not  sufficient to repay in full
such Swing Line Loans.  If any portion of any such amount paid (or deemed  paid)
to the Swing Line Bank should be recovered by or on behalf of the Borrower  from
the Swing  Line Bank in the event of the  bankruptcy  or  reorganization  of the
Borrower  or  otherwise,  the loss of the amount so  recovered  shall be ratably
shared among all Lenders in the manner contemplated by Section 11.2. 1.8 1.9 (d)
If, for any reason (including,  without limitation,  the occurrence of a Default
described in Section 7.6 or 7.7 of Article VII),  Revolving  Credit Loans at the
Floating  Rate may not be, or are not,  made  pursuant to paragraph  (c) of this
Section  2.10 to repay Swing Line Loans as required  by such  paragraph  and the
applicable  Swing Line Loan or Swing Line Loans have not otherwise  been repaid,
effective  on the date such  Revolving  Credit Loans would  otherwise  have been
made, each Lender  severally,  unconditionally  and  irrevocably  agrees that it
shall, without regard to the occurrence of any Default, purchase a participating
interest in such Swing Line Loans  ("Unrefunded  Swing Line Loans") in an amount
equal to the amount of Revolving  Credit Loans which would  otherwise  have been
made by such Lender  pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 2.10. Each Lender
will  immediately  transfer to the Agent, in immediately  available  funds,  the
amount of its  participation,  and the proceeds of such  participation  shall be
distributed  by the Agent to the Swing Line Bank in such  amount as will  reduce
the amount of the participating  interest retained by the Swing Line Bank in its
Swing Line Loans to the amount of the Revolving  Credit Loans which were to have
been made by the Swing Line Bank pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 2.10.
In the event a Lender fails to make  available to the Swing Line Bank the amount
of such Lender's participation as provided in this paragraph (d), the Swing Line
Bank  shall be  entitled  to  recover  such  amount on demand  from such  Lender
together  with  interest  at the  customary  rate set by the Swing Line Bank for
correction  of errors  among banks for one Business  Day and  thereafter  at the
Alternate Base Rate then in effect.  All payments in respect of Unrefunded Swing
Line Loans and  participations  therein shall be made in accordance with Section
2.14.  1.10 1.11 (e) Each  Lender's  obligation to make  Revolving  Credit Loans
pursuant to paragraph  (c) of this  Section  2.10 and to purchase  participating
interests  pursuant to paragraph  (d) of this Section 2.10 shall be absolute and
unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance,  including, without
limitation,  (i) any setoff,  counterclaim,  recoupment,  defense or other right
which such Lender or the  Borrower  may have  against  the Swing Line Bank,  the
Borrower  or any other  Person,  as the case may be, for any reason  whatsoever;
(ii) the occurrence or continuance of a Default; (iii) any adverse change in the
condition  (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower or any of its  Subsidiaries;
(iv) any breach of this Agreement by the Borrower,  any of its  Subsidiaries  or
any  Lender;  or (v) any  other  circumstance,  happening  or event  whatsoever,
whether or not similar to any of the foregoing.  1.12 1.13 Method of Borrowing .
On each Borrowing  Date,  each Lender shall make available its Loan or Loans, if
any, (a) if such Loan is  denominated in Dollars,  not later than noon,  Chicago
time, in Federal or other funds immediately  available to the Agent, in Chicago,
Illinois at its address specified in or pursuant to Article XIII and (b) if such
loan is  denominated in an Agreed  Currency  other than Dollars,  not later than
noon,  local time, in the city of the Agent's  Eurocurrency  Payment  Office for
such  currency,  in such funds as may then be customary  for the  settlement  of
international transactions in such currency in the city of and at the address of
the Agent's  Eurocurrency  Payment  Office for such  currency.  Unless the Agent
determines  that any applicable  condition  specified in Article IV has not been
satisfied,  the Agent will make the funds so received from the Lenders available
to the Borrower at the Agent's aforesaid address.  Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions  of this  Section  2.11,  to the extent  that a Loan made by a Lender
matures on the Borrowing Date of a requested  Loan,  such Lender shall apply the
proceeds  of the Loan it is then making to the  repayment  of  principal  of the
maturing  Loan.  1.14 1.15 Changes in Interest  Rate , etc.  Each  Floating Rate
Advance shall bear interest on the outstanding  principal  amount  thereof,  for
each day from and including the date such Advance is made or is converted from a
Eurocurrency Advance into a Floating Rate Advance pursuant to Section 2.9 to but
excluding the date it becomes due or is converted  into a  Eurocurrency  Advance
pursuant to Section 2.9 hereof,  at a rate per annum equal to the Floating  Rate
for such day.  Changes in the rate of  interest  on that  portion of any Advance
maintained as a Floating Rate Advance will take effect  simultaneously with each
change in the Alternate Base Rate. Each Eurocurrency Advance shall bear interest
on the outstanding  principal amount thereof from and including the first day of
the Interest Period applicable  thereto to (but not including),  the last day of
such Interest  Period at the interest rate determined by the Agent as applicable
to such Eurocurrency Advance based upon the Borrower's  selections under Section
2.8 and 2.9 and  otherwise  in  accordance  with the terms  hereof.  No Interest
Period may end after the Facility  Termination  Date. 1.16 1.17 Rates Applicable
After Default .  Notwithstanding  anything to the contrary  contained in Section
2.8 or 2.9 during the  continuance  of a Default,  the Required  Lenders may, at
their  option,  by notice to the  Borrower  (which  notice may be revoked at the
option of the  Required  Lenders  notwithstanding  any  provision of Section 8.2
requiring  unanimous  consent of the  Lenders to  changes  in  interest  rates),
declare  that no  Revolving  Credit  Advance may be made as,  converted  into or
continued as a  Eurocurrency  Advance.  During the  continuance of a Default the
Required  Lenders may, at their option,  by notice to the Borrower (which notice
may be  revoked  at the  option  of the  Required  Lenders  notwithstanding  any
provision of Section 8.2 requiring  unanimous  consent of the Lenders to changes
in interest  rates),  declare  that each  Eurocurrency  Advance,  Floating  Rate
Advance and Swing Line  Advance  shall bear  interest  for the  remainder of the
applicable  Interest  Period in the case of  Eurocurrency  Advances) at the rate
otherwise applicable plus 3% per annum; provided that, during the continuance of
a Default under Section 7.6 or 7.7, the interest  rates set forth above shall be
applicable  to all  Advances  without any  election or action on the part of the
Agent or any  Lender.  1.18 1.19 Method of Payment . (a) Each  Advance  shall be
repaid and each  payment of interest  thereon  shall be paid in the  currency in
which such Advance was made or, where such  currency has  converted to the Euro,
in the Euro. All payments of the Obligations  hereunder  shall be made,  without
setoff,  deduction or counterclaim,  in immediately available funds to the Agent
at (except as set forth in the next  sentence)  the  Agent's  address  specified
pursuant  to, or at any other  Lending  Installation  of the Agent  specified in
writing by the Agent to the Borrower,  by noon (local time) on the date when due
and shall be applied ratably by the Agent among the Lenders.  All payments to be
made by the Borrower  hereunder in any currency other than Dollars shall be made
in such  currency on the date due in such funds as may then be customary for the
settlement of international transactions in such currency for the account of the
Agent, at its Eurocurrency Payment Office for such currency and shall be applied
ratably by the Agent among the Lenders.  Each payment delivered to the Agent for
the  account  of any Lender  shall be  delivered  promptly  by the Agent to such
Lender in the same type of funds that the Agent  received,  at, (i) with respect
to Floating  Rate Loans and  Eurocurrency  Loans  denominated  in  Dollars,  its
address  specified  pursuant  to  Article  XIII or at any  Lending  Installation
specified  in a notice  received  by the Agent  from such  Lender  and (ii) with
respect to  Eurocurrency  Loans  denominated  in an Agreed  Currency  other than
Dollars,  in the funds  received from the Borrower at the address of the Agent's
Eurocurrency Payment Office for such currency. The Agent is hereby authorized to
charge any account of the Borrower  maintained  with First Chicago or any of its
Affiliates  for each payment of  principal,  interest and fees as it becomes due
hereunder.  1.20  1.21 (b)  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing  provisions  of this
Section, if, after the making of any Advance in any currency other than Dollars,
currency control or exchange regulations are imposed in the country which issues
such currency with the result that the type of currency in which the Advance was
made (the  "Original  Currency") no longer exists or the Borrower is not able to
make  payment  to the Agent for the  account  of the  Lenders  in such  Original
Currency,  then all  payments  shall be made by the  Borrower  hereunder in such
currency  shall  instead be made when due in  Dollars in an amount  equal to the
Dollar  Amount (as of the date of  repayment)  of such payment due, it being the
intention  of the  parties  hereto  that  the  Borrower  take  all  risks of the
imposition of any such currency control or exchange regulations. For purposes of
this Section 2.14(b),  the commencement of the third stage of European  Economic
and Monetary Union and the occurrence of the Euro  Implementation Date shall not
constitute the imposition of currency control or exchange regulations. 1.22 1.23
European Economic and Monetary Union . 1.24
                  2.15.1.  Advances After the Euro  Implementation Date . If any
         Advance made (or to be made) on or after the Euro  Implementation  Date
         would,  but for the  provisions of this Section  2.15.1,  be capable of
         being  made in either  the Euro or in a National  Currency  Unit,  such
         Advance shall be made in the Euro.

                  2.15.2 Rounding and Other Consequential  Changes . With effect
         on and from the Euro Implementation Date:

     (a)  without  prejudice to any method of conversion or rounding  prescribed
          by any legislative measures of the Council of the European Union, each
          reference in this Agreement to a fixed amount or to fixed amounts in a
          National  Currency  Unit  to  be  paid  to  or  by  the  Agent  shall,
          notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement,  be replaced by
          a reference to such  comparable and  convenient  fixed amount or fixed
          amounts in the Euro as the Agent may from time to time specify; and

     (b)  the Agent  may  notify  the other  parties  to this  Agreement  of any
          modifications to this Agreement which the Agent (acting reasonably and
          after   consultation   with  the  other  parties  to  this  Agreement)
          determines  to be  necessary  as a result of the  commencement  of the
          third stage of European Economic and Monetary Union and the occurrence
          of the Euro Implementation  Date.  Notwithstanding any other provision
          of this Agreement,  any  modifications  of which the Agent so notifies
          the other parties  shall take effect in  accordance  with the terms of
          such notification.  So far as possible,  such  modifications  shall be
          such  as to put  the  parties  in the  same  position  as if the  Euro
          Implementation  Date had not occurred.  However,  if and to the extent
          that the Agent  determines  that it is not possible to put the parties
          in such  position,  the Agent may give  priority to putting the Agent,
          the Arranger and the Lenders into such position.

1.1  Noteless  Agreement;  Evidence  of  Indebtedness  . (a) Each  Lender  shall
maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing
the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by
such Lender from time to time,  including  the amounts of principal and interest
payable  and paid to such Lender  from time to time  hereunder.  1.2 1.3 (b) The
Agent  shall  maintain  accounts  in which it will record (i) the amount of each
Loan made  hereunder,  the Agreed  Currency  and Type  thereof and the  Interest
Period with respect  thereto,  (ii) the amount of any  principal or interest due
and  payable or to become  due and  payable  from the  Borrower  to each  Lender
hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Agent  hereunder  from
the Borrower and each Lender's share thereof. 1.4 1.5 (c) The entries maintained
in the accounts  maintained  pursuant to  paragraphs  (a) and (b) above shall be
prima facie  evidence of the  existence and amounts of the  Obligations  therein
recorded;  provided,  however,  that the  failure  of the Agent or any Lender to
maintain  such  accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the
obligation of the Borrower to repay the  Obligations  in  accordance  with their
terms.  1.6 1.7 (d) Any  Lender may  request  that its Loans be  evidenced  by a
promissory note (a "Note").  In such event, the Borrower shall prepare,  execute
and  deliver to such  Lender a Note  payable to the order of such  Lender in the
form of Exhibit A or B, as applicable.  Thereafter,  the Loans evidenced by such
Note and interest  thereon shall at all times  (including  after any  assignment
pursuant to Section  12.3) be  represented  by one or more Notes  payable to the
order of the payee  named  therein or any  assignee  pursuant  to Section  12.3,
except to the extent that any such Lender or assignee  subsequently  returns any
such Note for  cancellation and requests that such Loans once again be evidenced
as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.  1.8 1.9 Telephonic  Notices . The
Borrower  hereby  authorizes  the  Lenders  and the Agent to extend,  convert or
continue Advances,  effect selections of Agreed Currencies and Types of Advances
and to transfer funds based on telephonic  notices made by any person or persons
the Agent or any  Lender in good  faith  believes  to be acting on behalf of the
Borrower,  it being understood that the foregoing  authorization is specifically
intended to allow Borrowing  Notices and  Conversion/Continuation  Notices to be
given  telephonically.  The Borrower  agrees to deliver  promptly to the Agent a
written  confirmation,  if such  confirmation  is  requested by the Agent or any
Lender,  of each  telephonic  notice  signed by an  Authorized  Officer.  If the
written  confirmation  differs in any material  respect from the action taken by
the Agent and the Lenders, the records of the Agent and the Lenders shall govern
absent manifest error. 1.10 1.11 Interest Payment Dates;  Interest and Fee Basis
 .  Interest  accrued  on each  Floating  Rate  Advance  shall be payable on each
Payment  Date,  commencing  with the  first  such  date to occur  after the date
hereof,  on any date on which the Floating Rate Advance is prepaid,  whether due
to acceleration or otherwise, and at maturity.  Interest accrued on that portion
of the outstanding  principal amount of any Floating Rate Advance converted into
a  Eurocurrency  Advance on a day other than a Payment  Date shall be payable on
the next Payment Date.  Interest accrued on each  Eurocurrency  Advance shall be
payable on the last day of its applicable  Interest Period, on any date on which
the Eurocurrency Advance is prepaid,  whether by acceleration or otherwise,  and
at maturity.  Interest accrued on each  Eurocurrency  Advance having an Interest
Period  longer than three  months  shall also be payable on the last day of each
three-month  interval during such Interest Period.  Interest and commitment fees
shall be  calculated  for actual  days  elapsed on the basis of a 360-day  year;
provided,  that interest on Eurocurrency  Advances denominated in British Pounds
Sterling  shall be  calculated  on the basis of a 365-day  or 366-day  year,  as
appropriate,  for the actual number of days elapsed.  Interest  shall be payable
for the day an Advance is made but not for the day of any  payment on the amount
paid if payment is received  prior to noon (local time) at the place of payment.
If any payment of principal  of or interest on an Advance  shall become due on a
day  which  is not a  Business  Day,  such  payment  shall  be made on the  next
succeeding Business Day and, in the case of a principal payment,  such extension
of time shall be included in computing interest in connection with such payment.
1.12 1.13  Notification of Advances,  Interest Rates,  Prepayments and Revolving
Credit  Commitment  Reductions . Promptly after receipt thereof,  the Agent will
notify  each  Lender of the  contents  of each  Aggregate  Commitment  reduction
notice, Borrowing Notice,  Conversion/Continuation  Notice, and repayment notice
received by it hereunder. The Agent will notify each Lender of the interest rate
applicable to each  Eurocurrency  Advance  promptly upon  determination  of such
interest  rate and will give each  Lender  prompt  notice of each  change in the
Alternate Base Rate. 1.14 1.15 Lending  Installations . Each Lender may book its
Loans at the appropriate  Lending  Installation listed on Schedule 1.2 hereto or
such other Lending Installation designated by such Lender in accordance with the
final sentence of this Section 2.20. All terms of this Agreement  shall apply to
any such Lending  Installation and the Notes shall be deemed held by each Lender
for the benefit of such Lending Installation. Each Lender may, by written notice
to the Agent and the  Borrower,  in  accordance  with  Article  XIII,  designate
replacement  or additional  Lending  Installations,  through which Loans will be
made by it and for  whose  account  Loan  payments  are to be  made.  1.16  1.17
Non-Receipt of Funds by the Agent . Unless the Borrower or a Lender, as the case
may be,  notifies  the Agent prior to the date on which it is  scheduled to make
payment to the Agent of (a) in the case of a Lender,  the proceeds of a Loan, or
(b) in the case of the Borrower, a payment of principal, interest or fees to the
Agent  for the  account  of the  Lenders,  that it does not  intend to make such
payment,  the Agent may assume that such  payment has been made.  The Agent may,
but shall not be obligated to, make the amount of such payment  available to the
intended  recipient  in  reliance  upon such  assumption.  If such Lender or the
Borrower,  as the case may be,  has not in fact made such  payment to the Agent,
the recipient of such payment shall, on demand by the Agent,  repay to the Agent
the amount so made available  together with interest  thereon in respect of each
day during the period  commencing on the date such amount was so made  available
by the Agent until the date the Agent  recovers  such amount at a rate per annum
equal to (i) in the case of payment by a Lender,  the  Federal  Funds  Effective
Rate for such day for the first three days and,  thereafter,  the interest  rate
applicable  to the relevant Loan or (ii) in the case of payment by the Borrower,
the interest rate applicable to the relevant Loan. 1.18 1.19 Market Disruption .
Notwithstanding the satisfaction of all conditions referred to in Article II and
Article  IV with  respect  to any  Advance  in any  Agreed  Currency  other than
Dollars, if there shall occur on or prior to the date of such Advance any change
in national or  international  financial,  political or economic  conditions  or
currency  exchange  rates or exchange  controls  which  would in the  reasonable
opinion  of the Agent or the  Required  Lenders  make it  impracticable  for the
Eurocurrency  Loans  comprising  such  Advance to be  denominated  in the Agreed
Currency  specified by the Borrower,  then the Agent shall forthwith give notice
thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders, and such Loans shall not be denominated
in such Agreed  Currency  but shall,  except as  otherwise  set forth in Section
2.15.1,  be made on such  Borrowing Date in Dollars,  in an aggregate  principal
amount equal to the Dollar Amount of the aggregate principal amount specified in
the related Borrowing Notice or Conversion/Continuation  Notice, as the case may
be, as Floating Rate Loans,  unless the Borrower notifies the Agent at least one
Business  Day before  such date that (a) it elects not to borrow on such date or
(b) it elects to borrow on such date in a different Agreed Currency, as the case
may be, in which the  denomination  of such  Loans  would in the  opinion of the
Agent and the Required  Lenders be  practicable  and in an  aggregate  principal
amount equal to the Dollar Amount of the aggregate principal amount specified in
the related Borrowing Notice or Conversion/Continuation  Notice, as the case may
be. 1.20 1.21 Judgment  Currency . If for the purposes of obtaining  judgment in
any court it is necessary  to convert a sum due from the  Borrower  hereunder in
the currency  expressed to be payable  herein (the  "specified  currency")  into
another currency,  the parties hereto agree, to the fullest extent that they may
effectively  do so,  that the rate of  exchange  used  shall be that at which in
accordance with normal banking procedures the Agent could purchase the specified
currency  with such other  currency at the Agent's  main  Chicago  office on the
Business Day preceding  that on which final,  non-appealable  judgment is given.
The  obligations  of the Borrower in respect of any sum due to any Lender or the
Agent hereunder shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency other than the
specified  currency,  be discharged  only to the extent that on the Business Day
following  receipt  by such  Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) of any sum
adjudged  to be so due in such other  currency  such Lender or the Agent (as the
case  may be) may in  accordance  with  normal,  reasonable  banking  procedures
purchase the specified  currency with such other currency.  If the amount of the
specified  currency so  purchased  is less than the sum  originally  due to such
Lender or the Agent, as the case may be, in the specified currency, the Borrower
agrees,  to the  fullest  extent  that it may  effectively  do so, as a separate
obligation and  notwithstanding  any such judgment,  to indemnify such Lender or
the  Agent,  as the case may be,  against  such  loss,  and if the amount of the
specified currency so purchased exceeds (a) the sum originally due to any Lender
or the Agent, as the case may be, in the specified  currency and (b) any amounts
shared  with  other  Lenders  as a result  of  allocations  of such  excess as a
disproportionate  payment to such Lender under Section 12.2,  such Lender or the
Agent,  as the case may be,  agrees to remit such excess to the  Borrower.  1.22
1.23 Taxes . 1.24 1.25 (a) All sums payable by the  Borrower  whether in respect
of principal,  interest,  fees or otherwise shall be paid without  deduction for
any present and future taxes, levies,  imposts,  charges or withholdings imposed
by any country, any state or other political  subdivision thereof and any entity
exercising  executive,  legislative,   judicial,  regulatory  or  administrative
functions of or pertaining to government (a "Governmental Authority") thereof or
therein,  any jurisdiction  from which any or all such payments are made and any
political  subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein,  excluding income
and franchise taxes (and deductions and  withholdings  therefor)  imposed on the
Agent or any  Lender (i) by the  jurisdiction  under the laws of which the Agent
(in the case of  payments  to the  Agent)  or such  Lender is  organized  or any
Governmental  Authority or taxing authority  thereof or therein,  or (ii) by any
jurisdiction in which the Agent's (in the case of payments to the Agent) or such
Lender's  applicable  Lending  Installations  are  located  or any  Governmental
Authority  or  taxing  authority   thereof  or  therein  (such  excluded  taxes,
deductions and withholdings, collectively, "Excluded Taxes"; and all such taxes,
levies,  imposts,  deductions,  charges  and  withholdings  (including  Excluded
Taxes),  collectively,  "Taxes"), which amounts shall be paid by the Borrower as
provided  in Section  2.24(b),  provided,  however,  that in no event  shall the
Borrower have any responsibility for or be required to pay any penalties arising
from the gross  negligence or willful  misconduct of the Agent or Lender seeking
compensation. As set forth in the preceding sentence, the Borrower will pay each
Lender  the  amounts  necessary  such  that  the net  amount  of the  principal,
interest,  fees or other sums  received  and retained by each Lender is not less
than the amount payable under this Agreement.  1.26 1.27 (b) If (i) the Borrower
or any other Person is required by law to make any deduction or  withholding  on
account of any Tax (other than Excluded Taxes) or other amount from any sum paid
or expressed  to be payable by the  Borrower to any Lender under this  Agreement
(other than on account of Excluded  Taxes);  or (ii) any party to this Agreement
(or any Person on its behalf) other than the Borrower is required by law to make
any  deduction or  withholding  from,  or (other than on account of any Excluded
Tax) any payment on or  calculated  by  reference to the amount of, any such sum
received or receivable by any Lender under this Agreement: 1.28

     (A)  the  Borrower  shall notify the Agent of any such  requirement  or any
          change in any such  requirement as soon as the Borrower  becomes aware
          of it and such Lender shall  promptly  notify the Borrower of any such
          requirement  or any change of such  requirement as soon as such Lender
          becomes aware thereof;

     (B)  to the extent the  Borrower is aware or is so notified by such Lender,
          the Borrower shall pay any such Tax or other amount before the date on
          which penalties attached thereto become due and payable,  such payment
          to be made (if the  liability to pay is imposed on the  Borrower)  for
          its own account or (if that liability is imposed on any other party to
          this Agreement) on behalf of and in the name of that party;

     (C)  the sum  payable by the  Borrower  in  respect  of which the  relevant
          deduction,  withholding or payment is required  shall (except,  in the
          case of any such payment, to the extent that the amount thereof is not
          ascertainable  when that sum is paid,  provided  no amount is actually
          withheld  from such  payment) be increased to the extent  necessary to
          ensure  that,  after the  making  of that  deduction,  withholding  or
          payment,  that party  receives on the due date and retains  (free from
          any  liability  in  respect  of any  such  deduction,  withholding  or
          payment)  a sum  equal to that  which it would  have  received  and so
          retained had no such  deduction,  withholding or payment been required
          or made; and

     (D)  within  thirty  (30)  days  after  payment  of any sum from  which the
          Borrower is required by law to make any deduction or withholding,  and
          within  thirty  (30) days  after the due date of payment of any Tax or
          other amount which it is required by this Section 2.24 ------------ to
          pay, it shall  deliver to the Agent all such  certified  documents and
          other  evidence  as to the making of such  deduction,  withholding  or
          payment as (1) are reasonably  satisfactory to other affected  parties
          as  proof  of  such  deduction,  withholding  or  payment  and  of the
          remittance  thereof to the relevant  taxing or other authority and (2)
          are reasonably  required by any such party to enable it to claim a tax
          credit with respect to such deduction, withholding or payment.

                  (c) The  Borrower  shall not be obligated to make any payments
under this  Section  2.24 to any Lender  which is not a U.S.  Lender  until such
Lender  shall  have  delivered  the tax forms  required  to be  delivered  by it
pursuant to Section 2.24(d).

                  (d) At least  five  Business  Days  prior to the first date on
which interest or fees are payable hereunder for the account of any Lender, each
Lender  which is not a U.S.  Lender  agrees that it will  deliver to each of the
Borrower  and the Agent two duly  completed  copies  of United  States  Internal
Revenue Service Form 1001 or 4224, certifying in either case that such Lender is
entitled  to  receive  payments  under  this  Agreement  and the  Notes  without
deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes.  Each Lender
which so delivers a Form 1001 or 4224 further  undertakes  to deliver to each of
the  Borrower and the Agent two  additional  copies of such form (or a successor
form) on or before the date that such form expires (currently,  three successive
calendar  years for Form 1001 and one  calendar  year for Form  4224) or becomes
obsolete  or after the  occurrence  of any event  requiring a change in the most
recent forms so delivered by it, and such  amendments  thereto or  extensions or
renewals thereof as may be reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Agent, in
each case certifying that such Lender is entitled to receive payments under this
Agreement and the Notes without  deduction or  withholding  of any United States
federal income taxes, unless an event (including, without limitation, any change
in treaty,  law or regulation)  has occurred prior to the date on which any such
delivery would  otherwise be required which renders all such forms  inapplicable
or which would prevent such Lender from duly  completing and delivering any such
form with respect to it and such Lender  advises the Borrower and the Agent that
it is not capable of receiving  payments without any deduction or withholding of
United States federal income tax.

1.1 Agent's Fees . The Borrower  shall pay to the Agent those fees,  in addition
to the commitment fees  referenced in Section 2.5(a),  in the amounts and at the
times separately agreed to between the Agent and the Borrower. 1.2

1                                             ARTICLE CHANGE IN CIRCUMSTANCES

1.1 Yield  Protection . (a) If, after the  Restatement  Date, the adoption of or
any  change  in  any  law  or  any  governmental  or  quasi-governmental   rule,
regulation,  policy,  guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of
law), or any interpretation thereof, or the compliance of any Lender therewith,

     (i)  subjects  any  Lender  or  any  applicable  Lending   Installation  or
          Eurocurrency Payment Office to any tax, duty, charge or withholding on
          or from  payments  due from the  Borrower  (excluding  taxation of the
          overall net income of any Lender or applicable Lending Installation in
          respect of its Eurocurrency Advances, or

     (i)  imposes or increases  or deems  applicable  any  reserve,  assessment,
          insurance  charge,  special  deposit  or similar  requirement  against
          assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by,
          any Lender or any applicable  Lending  Installation  in respect of its
          Eurocurrency  Advances (other than reserves and assessments taken into
          account in determining  the interest rate  applicable to  Eurocurrency
          Advances), or

     (i)  imposes any other  condition  the result of which is to  increase  the
          cost to any Lender or any applicable  Lending  Installation of making,
          funding or maintaining  its  Eurocurrency  Advances  Loans  including,
          without  limitation,  any  conversion  of any Loan  denominated  in an
          Agreed  Currency  other than Euro into a Loan  denominated in Euro) or
          reduces any amount receivable by any Lender or any applicable  Lending
          Installation in connection with its Eurocurrency Advances, or requires
          any Lender or any  applicable  Lending  Installation  or  Eurocurrency
          Payment  Office to make any payment  calculated  by  reference  to the
          amount of its Eurocurrency  Advances held, or interest  received by it
          in respect thereof, by an amount deemed material by such Lender,

and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Lender or
applicable  Lending  Installation  of making  or  maintaining  its  Eurocurrency
Advances  or  Commitment  then,  within 15 days of demand  by such  Lender,  the
Borrower shall pay such Lender that portion of such increased  expense  incurred
or resulting in an amount received which such Lender  determines is attributable
to making,  funding and maintaining its Eurocurrency Advances and its Commitment
in respect thereof.

                  (b) In addition to any other  amounts  payable by the Borrower
hereunder,  each Lender may require the Borrower to pay,  contemporaneously with
each payment of interest on  Eurocurrency  Advances of the  Borrower  additional
interest  on the  related  Eurocurrency  Loan of such  Lender at the  percentage
calculated  from time to time by such  Lender to be the  percentage  required to
fully  compensate such Lender for all reserve costs,  liabilities,  expenses and
assessments  which have been incurred by such Lender (or its applicable  Lending
Installation  or  Eurocurrency  Payment  Office)  pursuant  to  requirements  of
applicable  law or  any  applicable  governmental  or  quasi-governmental  rule,
regulation,  policy,  guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of
law)  regarding the making,  funding or maintaining  of such  Eurocurrency  Loan
(including,   without   limitation,   any  and  all  liquid  asset   maintenance
requirements  of the Bank of England and any reserve  requirements of Regulation
D),  to the  extent  that  any  such  amount  is  not  already  included  in the
determination of the Eurocurrency Rate. Any Lender wishing to require payment of
such additional interest (i) shall so notify the Borrower and the Agent pursuant
to Section 3.5, in which case such additional interest on the Eurocurrency Loans
of such Lender shall be payable in the applicable Agreed Currency to such Lender
at the place  indicated  in such notice  with  respect to each  Interest  Period
commencing  at least five (5) Business  Days after the giving of such notice and
(ii) shall  notify the  Borrower at least five (5)  Business  Days prior to each
date on which interest is payable on such Eurocurrency  Loans of the amount then
due it under this Section 3.1(b);  provided,  however, that if a Lender fails to
give such prior notice,  then such additional interest shall be payable five (5)
business Days after such notice if given.

1.1 Changes in Capital Adequacy  Regulations . If a Lender determines the amount
of capital  required or expected to be  maintained  by such Lender,  any Lending
Installation  of such  Lender  or any  corporation  controlling  such  Lender is
increased  as a result  of a  Change,  then,  within  15 days of  demand by such
Lender,  the Borrower  shall pay such Lender the amount  necessary to compensate
for any shortfall in the rate of return on the portion of such increased capital
which such Lender determines is attributable to this Agreement, its Loans or its
obligation  to make Loans  hereunder  (after  taking into account such  Lender's
policies  as to  capital  adequacy).  "Change"  means (a) any  change  after the
Restatement Date in the Risk-Based Capital Guidelines, or (b) any adoption of or
change in any other law,  governmental or quasi-governmental  rule,  regulation,
policy, guideline, interpretation, or directive (whether or not having the force
of law) after the Restatement  Date which affects the amount of capital required
or expected to be  maintained by any Lender or any Lending  Installation  or any
corporation  controlling any Lender.  "Risk-Based  Capital Guidelines" means (a)
the  risk-based  capital  guidelines  in  effect  in the  United  States  on the
Restatement Date, including transition rules, and (b) the corresponding  capital
regulations  promulgated  by  regulatory  authorities  outside the United States
implementing  the July 1988 report of the Basle Committee on Banking  Regulation
and  Supervisory  Practices  entitled  "International   Convergence  of  Capital
Measurements  and  Capital  Standards,"  including  transition  rules,  and  any
amendments to such  regulations  adopted prior to the Restatement  Date. 1.2 1.3
Availability of Types of Advances . If any Lender determines that maintenance of
its Eurocurrency  Advances at a suitable Lending  Installation would violate any
applicable law, rule, regulation, or directive,  whether or not having the force
of law,  or if the  Required  Lenders  determine  that (a)  deposits  of a type,
currency and maturity  appropriate to match fund  Eurocurrency  Advances are not
available  to  banks in the  London  interbank  market,  (b) the  interest  rate
applicable  to a Type of  Eurocurrency  Advance  does not  accurately  or fairly
reflect  the  cost of  deposits  generally  available  to  banks  in the  London
interbank  market,  or (c) a  fundamental  change has  occurred  in the  foreign
exchange or interbank  markets with respect to the  applicable  Agreed  Currency
(including,  without limitation, changes in national or international financial,
political  or  economic  conditions  or  currency  exchange  rates  or  exchange
controls),  which  change has the effect of making  deposits  in the  applicable
Agreed Currency generally not available to banks in the London interbank market,
then the Agent shall  suspend the  availability  of the affected Type of Advance
and require any Eurocurrency Advances of the affected Type to be repaid. 1.4 1.5
Funding  Indemnification . If any payment of a Eurocurrency  Advance occurs on a
date  which is not the  last  day of the  applicable  Interest  Period,  whether
because of acceleration,  prepayment or otherwise,  or a Eurocurrency Advance is
not made on the date specified by the Borrower for any reason other than default
by the Lenders,  the Borrower  will  indemnify the Agent and each Lender for any
loss or cost incurred by it resulting therefrom,  including, without limitation,
any  loss or cost in  liquidating  or  employing  deposits  acquired  to fund or
maintain  the  Eurocurrency  Advance.  1.6 1.7 Lender  Statements;  Survival  of
Indemnity . To the extent  reasonably  possible,  each Lender shall designate an
alternate  Lending  Installation  with respect to its  Eurocurrency  Advances to
reduce any liability of the Borrower to such Lender under Sections 2.24(a),  3.1
and 3.2 or to avoid the  unavailability  of a Type of Advance under Section 3.3,
so long as such designation is not  disadvantageous to such Lender.  Each Lender
shall deliver a written statement of such Lender to the Borrower (with a copy to
the Agent) as to the amount due, if any,  under  Sections  2.24(a),  3.1, 3.2 or
3.4.  Such  written   statement  shall  set  forth  in  reasonable   detail  the
calculations  upon which such Lender  determined such amount and shall be final,
conclusive  and  binding  on the  Borrower  in the  absence of  manifest  error.
Determination  of amounts  payable  under such  Sections  in  connection  with a
Eurocurrency  Advance  shall be  calculated  as though  each  Lender  funded its
Eurocurrency  Advances  through the purchase of a deposit of the type,  currency
and maturity corresponding to the deposit used as a reference in determining the
Eurocurrency  Rate applicable to such Loan,  whether in fact that is the case or
not.  Unless  otherwise  provided  herein,  the amount  specified in the written
statement of any Lender shall be payable on demand after receipt by the Borrower
of the  written  statement.  The  obligations  of the  Borrower  under  Sections
2.24(a),  3.1,  3.2  and  3.4  shall  survive  payment  of the  Obligations  and
termination of this Agreement. 1.8

1                                               ARTICLE CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

1.1 Amendment and Restatement . This Agreement shall not become  effective until
the Borrower has furnished to the Agent with sufficient copies for the Lenders:

(a)               Charter Documents.  Copies of the certificate of incorporation
                  of  the  Borrower,   together  with  all  amendments,   and  a
                  certificate   of  good   standing,   both   certified  by  the
                  appropriate   governmental  officer  in  its  jurisdiction  of
                  incorporation.

(a)  By-Laws and  Resolutions.  Copies,  certified by the Secretary or Assistant
     Secretary of the  Borrower,  of its by-laws and of its Board of  Directors'
     resolutions (and  resolutions of other bodies,  if any are deemed necessary
     by  counsel  for  any  Lender)  authorizing  the  execution,  delivery  and
     performance of the Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party.

(a)  Secretary's  Certificate.  An  incumbency  certificate,   executed  by  the
     Secretary or Assistant  Secretary of the Borrower,  which shall identify by
     name and title  and bear the  signature  of the  officers  of the  Borrower
     authorized  to sign the Loan  Documents and to make  borrowings  hereunder,
     upon which  certificate the Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely
     until informed of any change in writing by the Borrower.

(a)  Officer's Certificate. A certificate, dated the Restatement Date, signed by
     an Authorized  ---------------------  Officer of the Borrower,  in form and
     substance  satisfactory to the Required Lenders, to the effect that: (i) on
     the  Restatement  Date no Default or Unmatured  Default has occurred and is
     continuing;  (ii) no injunction or temporary  restraining order which would
     prohibit  the making of the Loans or the  consummation  of any of the other
     transactions  contemplated by any of the Loan Documents  (collectively  the
     "Restatement    Transactions"),    or   other    litigation   which   could
     ------------------------  reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse
     Effect is pending or, to the best of such Person's  knowledge,  threatened;
     (iii)  all  orders,  consents,  approvals,  licenses,   authorizations,  or
     validations of, or filings, recordings or registrations with, or exemptions
     by,  any  governmental  or public  body or  authority,  or any  subdivision
     thereof,  required to make or consummate the Restatement  Transactions have
     been or, prior to the time required, will have been, obtained, given, filed
     or taken and are or will be in full force and effect (or the  Borrower  has
     obtained effective judicial relief with respect to the application thereof)
     and  that  all  applicable  waiting  periods  have  expired;  (iv) the Loan
     Documents are in full force and effect and no term or condition thereof has
     been amended,  modified or waived after the execution  thereof  except with
     the  written  consent of the  Agent;  (v) each of the  representations  and
     warranties  set forth in Article V of this Agreement is true and correct on
     and as of the  ---------  date hereof;  and (vi) since  January 3, 1998, no
     event or change  has  occurred  that has  caused or  evidences  a  Material
     Adverse Effect.

(a)  Legal Opinion.  A written opinion of the Borrower's  counsel,  addressed to
     the Agent and the Lenders in form and substance acceptable to the Agent and
     its counsel.

(a)  Notes. To the extent required by any Lender,  Notes payable to the order of
     each such Lender ----- duly executed by the Borrower.

(a)  Transfer Instructions. Written money transfer instructions addressed to the
     Agent and signed by an Authorized Officer, together with such other related
     money transfer authorizations as the Agent may have reasonably requested.

(a)  Year 2000.  Information  satisfactory to the Agent and the Required Lenders
     regarding the Borrower's Year 2000 Program.

(a)  Loan Documents.  Executed originals of this Agreement and each of the other
     Loan Documents to be executed on the  Restatement  Date,  which shall be in
     full force and effect, together with all schedules, exhibits, certificates,
     instruments,  opinions,  documents and financial  statements required to be
     delivered pursuant hereto and thereto.

(a)  Certain Payments. The Borrower shall have paid to the Agent for the ratable
     account of the Existing Lenders the full amount of all principal,  interest
     and fees  outstanding  or accrued  and  unpaid  under the  Existing  Credit
     Agreement.

(a)  Departing  Lenders.  The  Departing  Lenders  shall have  consented to this
     Agreement  and  the  reduction  to  $0  of  their  respective   commitments
     hereunder,  such consent to be in form and  substance  satisfactory  to the
     Agent.

(a)  Fees.  Evidence that the Borrower  shall have paid all fees due or owing on
     the Restatement  Date pursuant to that certain letter  agreement with First
     Chicago dated as of July 22, 1998.

(a)  Other.  Such other  documents as the Agent or any Lender or its counsel may
     have reasonably ----- requested.

1.1  Each Future Advance . The Lenders shall not be required to make any Advance
     unless on the applicable Borrowing Date: 1.2 (a) There exists no Default or
     Unmatured Default and none would result from such Advance;

(a)  The  representations  and  warranties  contained  in Article V are true and
     correct as of such Borrowing Date except as to matters  occurring after the
     date hereof and affecting  solely the accuracy of Schedule 5.9, 5.10, 5.16,
     5.20 or 5.22;

(a)  A Borrowing Notice shall have been properly submitted; and

(a)  All  legal  matters  incident  to the  making  of  such  Advance  shall  be
     satisfactory to the Lenders and their counsel.

         Each  Borrowing   Notice  with  respect  to  each  such  Advance  shall
constitute a  representation  and warranty by the Borrower  that the  conditions
contained  in Section  4.2 have been  satisfied.  Any Lender may  require a duly
completed  compliance  certificate in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto
as a condition to making an Advance.


1                        ARTICLE REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

         The Borrower  represents and warrants to the Lenders that,  both before
and after giving effect to the Restatement Transactions:

1.1 Corporate  Existence and Standing . Each of the Borrower and each Subsidiary
is a corporation duly incorporated,  validly existing and in good standing under
the laws of its respective  jurisdiction of incorporation  and is duly qualified
and in good standing as a foreign  corporation and is duly authorized to conduct
its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted or proposed
to be conducted.
1.2
1.3  Authorization  and  Validity . The  Borrower  has all  requisite  power and
authority  (corporate and otherwise) and legal right to execute and deliver each
of the Loan  Documents  to which it is a party and to  perform  its  obligations
thereunder.  The execution and delivery by the Borrower of the Loan Documents to
which it is a party and the performance of its obligations  thereunder have been
duly  authorized  by  proper  corporate  proceedings,  and  the  Loan  Documents
constitute  legal,  valid and binding  obligations of the Borrower,  enforceable
against the Borrower in accordance  with their terms,  except as  enforceability
may  be  limited  by  bankruptcy,  insolvency  or  similar  laws  affecting  the
enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
1.4
1.5 Compliance with Laws and Contracts . The Borrower and its Subsidiaries  have
complied  in  all  material  respects  with  all  applicable  statutes,   rules,
regulations,  orders and  restrictions of any domestic or foreign  government or
any  instrumentality or agency thereof,  having jurisdiction over the conduct of
their  respective  businesses or the ownership of their  respective  properties,
except where the failure to so comply could not reasonably be expected to have a
Material  Adverse Effect.  Neither the execution and delivery by the Borrower of
the  Loan  Documents,  the  application  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loans,  the
consummation  of  any  transaction  contemplated  in  the  Loan  Documents,  nor
compliance  with the provisions of the Loan  Documents  will, or at the relevant
time  did,  (a)  violate  any law,  rule,  regulation,  order,  writ,  judgment,
injunction,  decree or award  binding on the Borrower or any  Subsidiary  or the
Borrower's or any  Subsidiary's  articles or  certificate  of  incorporation  or
by-laws, (b) violate the provisions of or require the approval or consent of any
party to any  indenture,  instrument  or  agreement to which the Borrower or any
Subsidiary is a party or is subject, or by which it, or its property,  is bound,
or conflict with or constitute a default  thereunder,  or result in the creation
or imposition of any Lien (other than Liens permitted by the Loan Documents) in,
of or on the property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary pursuant to the terms of
any such indenture,  instrument or agreement,  or (c) require any consent of the
stockholders  of any Person,  except for  approvals  or  consents  which will be
obtained on or before the initial  Advance and are  disclosed  on Schedule  5.3,
except  for any  violation  of, or  failure  to obtain an  approval  or  consent
required  under,  any such  indenture,  instrument  or agreement  that could not
reasonably be expected to have a Material  Adverse Effect.  1.6 1.7 Governmental
Consents . No order, consent, approval,  qualification,  license, authorization,
or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with, or exemption by, or
other action in respect of, any court, governmental or public body or authority,
or any subdivision thereof, any securities exchange or other Person is or at the
relevant  time was  required to  authorize,  or is or at the  relevant  time was
required in connection with the execution, delivery, consummation or performance
of, or the legality,  validity,  binding effect or enforceability of, any of the
Loan Documents, the application of the proceeds of the Loans or the consummation
of any transaction contemplated in the Loan Documents.  Neither the Borrower nor
any  Subsidiary  is in default  under or in violation  of any foreign,  federal,
state or local law, rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment,  injunction, decree
or award binding upon or applicable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary,  in each
case the consequences of which default or violation could reasonably be expected
to have a Material Adverse Effect.  1.8 1.9 Financial  Statements . The Borrower
has heretofore  furnished to each of the Lenders (a) the January 3, 1998 audited
consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries,  and (b)
the  unaudited  consolidated  financial  statements  of  the  Borrower  and  its
Subsidiaries through April 4, 1998 (collectively,  the "Financial  Statements").
Each of the  Financial  Statements  was prepared in  accordance  with  Agreement
Accounting  Principles and fairly presents the consolidated  financial condition
and  operations  of the  Borrower  and its  Subsidiaries  at such  dates and the
consolidated  results of their operations for the respective  periods then ended
(except,  in the case of such unaudited  statements,  for normal  year-end audit
adjustments and the absence of footnotes).  1.10 1.11 Material  Adverse Change .
No material adverse change in the business,  Property,  condition  (financial or
otherwise),  performance, prospects or results of operations of the Borrower and
its  Subsidiaries  has  occurred  since  January 3, 1998.  1.12 1.13 Taxes . The
Borrower and its Subsidiaries have filed or caused to be filed all United States
federal and  applicable  state tax  returns and all other tax returns  which are
required  to be filed and have paid all taxes due  pursuant  to said  returns or
pursuant to any assessment  received by the Borrower or any  Subsidiary,  except
such  taxes,  if any,  as are  being  contested  in good  faith  and as to which
adequate  reserves have been provided in accordance  with  Agreement  Accounting
Principles  and to which no Lien exists.  No United States income tax returns of
the Borrower on a consolidated  basis have been audited by the Internal  Revenue
Service.  No tax liens  have been filed and no claims  are being  asserted  with
respect to any such taxes which could  reasonably be expected to have a Material
Adverse Effect. The charges,  accruals and reserves on the books of the Borrower
and its Subsidiaries in respect of any taxes or other  governmental  charges are
in accordance  with Agreement  Accounting  Principles.  1.14 1.15 Litigation and
Contingent  Obligations  .  There  is no  litigation,  arbitration,  proceeding,
inquiry or governmental  investigation  (including,  without limitation,  by the
Federal Trade Commission) pending or, to the knowledge of any of their officers,
threatened  against or affecting the Borrower or any  Subsidiary or any of their
respective  properties (a) which could reasonably be expected to have a Material
Adverse Effect or to prevent,  enjoin or unduly delay the making of the Loans or
Advances under this Agreement or (b) as of the date of this Agreement, except as
set forth in Schedule  5.8.  Neither the  Borrower  nor any  Subsidiary  has any
material  contingent  obligations except as set forth on Schedule 5.8. 1.16 1.17
Capitalization  . Schedule  5.9 hereto  contains an accurate  list of all of the
existing  Subsidiaries  as of the date of this  Agreement,  setting  forth their
respective  jurisdictions of  incorporation  and the percentage of their capital
stock  owned  by the  Borrower  or other  Subsidiaries.  All of the  issued  and
outstanding  shares of capital stock of the Borrower and of each Subsidiary have
been duly  authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and  non-assessable,
and all such shares of each  Subsidiary are free and clear of all Liens.  Except
as set forth on Schedule 5.9, no authorized  but unissued or treasury  shares of
capital  stock of the  Borrower  or any  Subsidiary  are  subject to any option,
warrant,  right to call or commitment  of any kind or  character.  Except as set
forth  on  Schedule  5.9,  neither  the  Borrower  nor  any  Subsidiary  has any
outstanding stock or securities  convertible into or exchangeable for any shares
of its capital stock,  or any right issued to any Person  (either  preemptive or
other) to subscribe  for or to purchase,  or any options for the purchase of, or
any  agreements  providing  for the  issuance  (contingent  or other) of, or any
calls,  commitments  or claims of any  character  relating to any of its capital
stock or any stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for any of its
capital stock other than as expressly set forth in the  certificate  or articles
of incorporation  of the Borrower or such  Subsidiary.  Neither the Borrower nor
any  Subsidiary  is subject  to any  obligation  (contingent  or  otherwise)  to
repurchase or otherwise acquire or retire any shares of its capital stock or any
convertible securities, rights or options of the type described in the preceding
sentence except as otherwise set forth on Schedule 5.9. 1.18 1.19 ERISA . Except
as set forth on Schedule 5.10 hereto,  the Borrower does not maintain any Single
Employer  Plans.  The Borrower has no Unfunded  Liabilities  with respect to any
Single  Employer  Plans.  Neither  the  Borrower  nor any  other  member  of the
Controlled  Group is a party to any  Multiemployer  Plan or has incurred,  or is
reasonably  expected to incur,  any  withdrawal  liability to any  Multiemployer
Plan.  Each  Plan  complies  in  all  material   respects  with  all  applicable
requirements  of law and  regulations,  no  Reportable  Event has occurred  with
respect to any Plan, neither the Borrower nor any other member of the Controlled
Group has withdrawn from any Plan or initiated  steps to do so and no steps have
been taken to reorganize or terminate any Plan.  1.20 1.21 Defaults . No Default
or Unmatured  Default has occurred and is continuing.  1.22 1.23 Federal Reserve
Regulations . Neither the Borrower nor any  Subsidiary  is engaged,  directly or
indirectly,  principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business
of  extending,  or arranging  for the  extension  of,  credit for the purpose of
purchasing or carrying Margin Stock. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be
used in a manner which would violate, or result in a violation of, Regulation T,
Regulation U or Regulation X. Neither the making of any Advance  hereunder,  nor
the use of the  proceeds  thereof,  will  violate  or be  inconsistent  with the
provisions  of  Regulation  T,  Regulation  U or  Regulation  X.  Following  the
application  of the proceeds of any Revolving  Loan,  less than 25% of the value
(as determined by any  reasonable  method) of the assets of the Borrower and its
Subsidiaries  which are  subject to any  limitation  on sale,  pledge,  or other
restriction  hereunder  taken as a whole have  been,  and will  continue  to be,
represented by Margin Stock. 1.24 1.25 Investment Company . Neither the Borrower
nor any  Subsidiary  is,  or after  giving  effect  to any  Advance  will be, an
"investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" within
the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. 1.26 1.27 Certain
Fees . Other than as disclosed on Schedule  5.14, no broker's or finder's fee or
commission  was, is or will be payable by the  Borrower or any  Subsidiary  with
respect to any of the transactions  contemplated by this Agreement. The Borrower
hereby agrees to indemnify the Agent and the Lenders  against and agrees that it
will hold each of them harmless from any claim, demand or liability for broker's
or finder's fees or commissions alleged to have been incurred by the Borrower in
connection with any of the  transactions  contemplated by this Agreement and any
expenses  (including,  without  limitation,  attorneys' fees and time charges of
attorneys for the Agent or any Lender,  which  attorneys may be employees of the
Agent or any  Lender)  arising  in  connection  with any such  claim,  demand or
liability.  No other similar fee or commissions  will be payable by the Borrower
or any  Subsidiary  for any  other  services  rendered  to the  Borrower  or any
Subsidiary ancillary to any of the transactions  contemplated by this Agreement.
1.28  1.29  Solvency  . As of  the  date  hereof,  after  giving  effect  to the
consummation of the Restatement  Transactions and the payment of all fees, costs
and  expenses   payable  by  the  Borrower  with  respect  to  the   Restatement
Transactions,  each  of the  Borrower  and  each  Subsidiary  is  Solvent.  1.30
Ownership  of  Properties  . Except as set forth on Schedule  5.16  hereto,  the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries have a subsisting  leasehold  interest in, or good
and marketable title,  free of all Liens,  other than those permitted by Section
6.17, to all of the properties and assets reflected in the Financial  Statements
as being owned by it, except for assets sold,  transferred or otherwise disposed
of in the ordinary  course of business  since the date  thereof.  Schedule  5.16
hereto contains a true, complete and accurate list of all real property owned or
leased by the Borrower and  indicates  whether such property is owned or leased.
To the  knowledge of the  Borrower,  there are no actual,  threatened or alleged
defaults with respect to any leases of real property under which the Borrower or
any Subsidiary is lessee or lessor which could  reasonably be expected to have a
Material Adverse Effect. The Borrower and its Subsidiaries own or possess rights
to use all licenses,  patents,  patent applications,  copyrights,  servicemarks,
trademarks  and trade names  necessary to continue to conduct their  business as
heretofore conducted, and no such license, patent or trademark has been declared
invalid, been limited by order of any court or by agreement or is the subject of
any infringement,  interference or similar  proceeding or challenge,  except for
challenges  which could not  reasonably  be expected to have a Material  Adverse
Effect.  1.31 1.32 Indebtedness . Attached hereto as Schedule 5.17 is a complete
and  correct  list of all  Indebtedness  of the  Borrower  and its  Subsidiaries
outstanding  on the  date  of  this  Agreement  (other  than  Indebtedness  in a
principal  amount not  exceeding  $5,000 for a single item of  Indebtedness  and
$50,000 in the  aggregate  for all such  Indebtedness),  showing  the  aggregate
principal  amount which was  outstanding on such date after giving effect to the
making of the Loans and the sale of the 1998  Senior  Notes.  The  Borrower  has
delivered or caused to be  delivered to the Lenders a true and complete  copy of
each instrument  evidencing any Indebtedness listed on Schedule 5.17 and of each
document  pursuant to which any of such  Indebtedness  was issued  except as set
forth on Schedule 5.17. 1.33 1.34 Employee Controversies . There are no strikes,
work stoppages or  controversies  pending or threatened  between the Borrower or
any Subsidiary and any of its employees,  other than employee grievances arising
in the  ordinary  course  of  business,  which,  in  the  aggregate,  could  not
reasonably  be expected to have a Material  Adverse  Effect.  1.35 1.36 Material
Agreements . Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is a party to any agreement
or instrument  or subject to any charter or other  corporate  restriction  which
could  reasonably  be expected to have a Material  Adverse  Effect.  Neither the
Borrower nor any  Subsidiary  is in default in the  performance,  observance  or
fulfillment of any of the obligations,  covenants or conditions contained in any
agreement to which it is a party,  which default could reasonably be expected to
have a Material  Adverse  Effect.  1.37 1.38  Hazardous  Materials . Neither the
Borrower  nor any  Subsidiary  has  received  any notice to the effect  that its
operations  are not in  compliance  with any of the  requirements  of applicable
federal,  state  and  local  environmental,   health  and  safety  statutes  and
regulations  (hereinafter  "Environmental  Laws")  with  respect  to, or are the
subject of any federal or state  investigation  evaluating  whether any remedial
action is needed to  respond  to a release  of any toxic or  hazardous  waste or
substance  into the  environment.  Neither the Borrower nor any  Subsidiary  has
caused or permitted  any toxic or hazardous  waste or product to be disposed of,
either on or under real property  legally or  beneficially  owned or operated by
the  Borrower or any  Subsidiary,  that could  reasonably  be expected to have a
Material Adverse Effect. No such real property has ever been used as a dump site
or storage  site for any toxic or  hazardous  waste,  substance  or product that
could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The failure,  if
any, of the Borrower or any  Subsidiary,  in  connection  with the  operation of
their  business,  to obtain or be in  compliance  with any permit,  certificate,
license, approval and other authorization, or to file any notification or report
relating to chemical substances, air emissions, effluent discharges and storage,
treatment,  transport  and  disposal  has not had and  could not  reasonably  be
expected to have, a Material  Adverse Effect.  The Borrower and its Subsidiaries
have no liabilities with respect to toxic or hazardous waste or product,  and no
facts or  circumstances  exist which could give rise to liabilities with respect
to toxic or hazardous  waste or product,  which,  in either case,  have or could
reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as disclosed on
Schedule 5.20, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries  have no liabilities  exceeding
$100,000  with  respect to toxic or  hazardous  waste or product and no facts or
circumstances  exist which could give rise to such  liabilities  with respect to
toxic or  hazardous  waste  product.  None of the matters  disclosed on Schedule
5.20, have or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. As
of the date  hereof,  the  Borrower  and its  Subsidiaries  have no  liabilities
exceeding $100,000 with respect to compliance with applicable federal, state and
local laws, statutes,  codes, rules or regulations relating to the protection of
the air and atmosphere,  including,  without  limitation,  the Clean Air Act, 42
U.S.C.  ss. 7401 et seq., and the Illinois Air Pollution Rules and  Regulations,
35 Ill. Admin. Code ss. 201.101 et seq. (collectively,  "Air Regulations"),  and
no facts or  circumstances  exist which could give rise to such liabilities with
respect to compliance  with  applicable Air  Regulations,  and the operation and
production of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries will not be materially  impacted
or affected by Borrower's and its  Subsidiaries'  compliance with applicable Air
Regulations.  1.39 1.40 Year 2000 . The  Borrower  has made a full and  complete
assessment  of the Year 2000 Issues and has a realistic and  achievable  program
for  remediating  the  Year  2000  Issues  on a timely  basis  (the  "Year  2000
Program").  Based on such  assessment  and on the Year 2000 Program the Borrower
does not  reasonably  anticipate  that Year  2000  Issues  will have a  Material
Adverse  Effect.  1.41 1.42 Insurance . Each of the Borrower and each Subsidiary
carries and has in existence insurance which is adequate to protect it. Schedule
5.22 completely and accurately summarizes the property and casualty insurance in
existence and carried by the Borrower  applicable to its domestic operations and
includes the  insurer's  or  insurers'  name(s),  policy  number(s),  expiration
date(s),  amount(s)  of  coverage,  type(s)  of  coverage,   exclusion(s),   and
deductibles.  Schedule 5.22 also includes similar information, and describes any
reserves,   relating  to  any  self-insurance   program  covering  the  domestic
operations  of the  Borrower  or any  Subsidiary  that is in  effect.  1.43 1.44
Disclosure . None of the (a) information, exhibits or reports furnished or to be
furnished  by the  Borrower or any  Subsidiary  to the Agent or to any Lender in
connection with the negotiation of the Loan Documents, or (b) representations or
warranties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary  contained in this  Agreement,  the
other Loan Documents or any other  document,  certificate  or written  statement
furnished  to the Agent or the  Lenders by or on behalf of the  Borrower  or any
Subsidiary  for use in connection  with the  transactions  contemplated  by this
Agreement,  contained,  contains  or will  contain  any  untrue  statement  of a
material fact or omitted,  omits or will omit to state a material fact necessary
in order to make the  statements  contained  herein or therein not misleading in
light of the  circumstances in which the same were made. The pro forma financial
information  contained in such materials is based upon good faith  estimates and
assumptions believed by the Borrower to be reasonable at the time made. There is
no fact known to the Borrower (other than matters of a general  economic nature)
that has had or could  reasonably be expected to have a Material  Adverse Effect
and that has not been disclosed herein or in such other documents,  certificates
and  statements  furnished  to the  Lenders  for  use  in  connection  with  the
transactions  contemplated by this Agreement. 1.45 1.46 Contracts . The Borrower
has no  actual  knowledge  that  any  party is in  default  under  any  material
contract,  agreement,  franchise,  lease, permit, consent, license or commitment
applicable  thereto.  Without  limiting the  generality  of the  foregoing,  the
Borrower has no actual knowledge that any equipment  necessary for the continued
operation of its businesses  (and those of its  Subsidiaries)  as now conducted,
and as proposed to be  conducted,  is being  utilized,  operated and  maintained
other than in  conformity in all material  respects with the  provisions of such
contracts,  agreements,  franchises,  leases,  permits,  consents  and  licenses
applicable thereto.


1                                                    ARTICLE COVENANTS

         During the term of this  Agreement,  unless the Required  Lenders shall
otherwise consent in writing:

1.1  Financial  Reporting  . The  Borrower  will  maintain,  for itself and each
Subsidiary,  a system of accounting  established and  administered in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied, and furnish
to the Lenders:

(a)  As soon as  practicable  and in any event within 90 days after the close of
     each  of its  fiscal  years,  an  unqualified  audit  report  certified  by
     independent  certified  public  accountants,  acceptable  to  the  Lenders,
     prepared  in  accordance   with  Agreement   Accounting   Principles  on  a
     consolidated and consolidating basis (consolidating  statements need not be
     certified by such accountants) for itself and its  Subsidiaries,  including
     balance  sheets as of the end of such period,  related  profit and loss and
     reconciliation  of  surplus  statements,  and a  statement  of cash  flows,
     accompanied by (i) any management letter prepared by said accountants, (ii)
     a certificate of said  accountants  that, in the course of the  examination
     necessary for their  certification of the foregoing,  they have obtained no
     knowledge  of any Default or  Unmatured  Default,  or if, in the opinion of
     such accountants, any Default or Unmatured Default shall exist, stating the
     nature and status thereof,  (iii) a letter from said accountants  addressed
     to the  Lenders  acknowledging  that the Lenders  are  extending  credit in
     primary  reliance  on  such  financial   statements  and  authorizing  such
     reliance,  and (iv) a  certificate  describing  any changes  which would be
     required to be made to Schedules  5.9, 5.10,  5.16,  5.20 and 5.22 in order
     -------------  ---- ---- ---- ---- to make such  Schedules  accurate  as of
     such date.

(a)  As soon as  practicable  and in any event within 45 days after the close of
     the first three quarterly  periods of each of its fiscal years,  for itself
     and its  Subsidiaries,  consolidated and  consolidating  unaudited  balance
     sheets  as  at  the  close  of  each  such  period  and   consolidated  and
     consolidating  profit and loss and reconciliation of surplus statements and
     a statement of cash flows for the period from the  beginning of such fiscal
     year to the end of such  quarter,  all  certified  by its  chief  financial
     officer.

(a)  As soon as  practicable  and in any event  within 30 days  after the end of
     each month, for itself and its Subsidiaries, consolidated and consolidating
     unaudited profit and loss and  reconciliation  of surplus  statements and a
     statement of cash flows and an unaudited  balance sheet of the Borrower and
     its  Subsidiaries  as at the end of such monthly  period and for the period
     from the  beginning of such fiscal year to the end of such monthly  period,
     setting forth in each case in comparative form consolidated figures for the
     corresponding  period in the preceding  fiscal year and to the  projections
     delivered for such fiscal year,  all prepared in accordance  with Agreement
     Accounting  Principles  and in  reasonable  detail and all certified by the
     chief financial officer of the Borrower.

(a)  As soon as available, but in any event not later than the last Business Day
     in  February of each year,  a copy of the plan and  forecast  (including  a
     projected  consolidated and consolidating  balance sheet,  income statement
     and funds flow  statement)  of the Borrower and its  Subsidiaries  for such
     year.

(a)  Together  with the  financial  statements  required  by clauses (a) and (b)
     above,  a compliance  certificate  in  substantially  the form of Exhibit C
     hereto  signed by its chief  financial  officer  showing  the  calculations
     necessary to determine  compliance  with this Agreement and stating that no
     Default or Unmatured Default exists, or if any Default or Unmatured Default
     exists, stating the nature and status thereof.

(a)  Within 270 days after the close of each fiscal  year,  a  statement  of the
     Unfunded  Liabilities of each Single Employer Plan, certified as correct by
     an actuary enrolled under ERISA.

(a)  As soon as  possible  and in any event  within 10 days  after the  Borrower
     knows that any  Reportable  Event has occurred  with respect to any Plan, a
     statement,   signed  by  the  chief  financial  officer  of  the  Borrower,
     describing said Reportable Event and the action which the Borrower proposes
     to take with respect thereto.

(a)  As soon as possible  and in any event  within 10 days after  receipt by the
     Borrower, a copy of (i) any notice or claim to the effect that the Borrower
     or any of its Subsidiaries is or may be liable to any Person as a result of
     the release by the Borrower,  any of its Subsidiaries,  or any other Person
     of any toxic or hazardous waste or substance into the environment, and (ii)
     any  notice  alleging  any  violation  of  any  federal,   state  or  local
     environmental, health or safety law or regulation by the Borrower or any of
     its  Subsidiaries,  which, in either case,  could reasonably be expected to
     have a Material Adverse Effect.

(a)  Promptly upon the furnishing  thereof to the  shareholders of the Borrower,
     copies  of all  financial  statements,  reports  and  proxy  statements  so
     furnished.

(a)  Promptly upon the filing thereof, copies of all registration statements and
     annual,  quarterly,  monthly or other regular reports which the Borrower or
     any of its Subsidiaries files with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

(a)  Promptly  upon the execution  thereof,  copies of the 1998 Senior Notes and
     1998 Senior Note Agreement.

(a)  Such other information (including  non-financial  information) as the Agent
     or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.

1.1 Use of Proceeds . The Borrower will, and will cause each  Subsidiary to, use
the proceeds of the Loans to provide  funds for  repurchases  of the  Borrower's
common stock and common  stock  warrants,  Purchases  and  Investments  in joint
ventures  and to  meet  the  working  capital  needs  of the  Borrower  and  its
Subsidiaries.  The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any  Subsidiary to, use
any of the proceeds of the Advances (a) to purchase or carry any Margin Stock or
(b) in connection with any hostile takeover.
1.2
1.3 Notice of Default . The Borrower  will,  and will cause each  Subsidiary to,
give prompt notice in writing to the Lenders of the occurrence of any Default or
Unmatured Default and of any other development,  financial or other, which could
reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
1.4
1.5 Conduct of Business . The Borrower will, and will cause each  Subsidiary to,
carry on and  conduct  its  business  in  substantially  the same  manner and in
substantially the same fields of enterprise as it is presently  conducted and to
do all things  necessary to remain duly  incorporated,  validly  existing and in
good standing as a domestic corporation in its jurisdiction of incorporation and
maintain all requisite authority to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in
which its business is  conducted.  1.6 1.7 Taxes . The Borrower  will,  and will
cause each Subsidiary to, pay when due all taxes,  assessments and  governmental
charges and levies  upon it or its income,  profits or  Property,  except  those
which are being  contested  in good faith by  appropriate  proceedings  and with
respect to which adequate  reserves have been set aside. 1.8 1.9 Insurance . The
Borrower will,  and will cause each  Subsidiary  to,  maintain with  financially
sound and reputable  insurance companies insurance on all their Property in such
amounts and covering such risks as is consistent  with sound business  practice,
and the  Borrower  will  furnish to the Agent or any Lender  upon  request  full
information as to the insurance  carried.  1.10 1.11  Compliance with Laws . The
Borrower will, and will cause each  Subsidiary to, comply with all laws,  rules,
regulations,  orders, writs, judgments,  injunctions, decrees or awards to which
it may be subject, the failure to comply with which could reasonably be expected
to have a Material  Adverse  Effect.  1.12 1.13  Maintenance of Properties . The
Borrower  will, and will cause each  Subsidiary  to, do all things  necessary to
maintain,  preserve, protect and keep its Property in good repair, working order
and  condition,  and  make  all  necessary  and  proper  repairs,  renewals  and
replacements  so that its business  carried on in  connection  therewith  may be
properly  conducted at all times.  1.14 1.15 Inspection . The Borrower will, and
will cause  each  Subsidiary  to,  permit  the Agent and the  Lenders,  by their
respective representatives and agents, to inspect any of the Property, corporate
books and financial records of the Borrower and each Subsidiary,  to examine and
make copies of the books of accounts and other financial records of the Borrower
and each  Subsidiary,  and to discuss the affairs,  finances and accounts of the
Borrower and each  Subsidiary  with,  and to be advised as to the same by, their
respective  officers at such  reasonable  times and intervals as the Lenders may
designate. The Borrower will keep or cause to be kept, and cause each Subsidiary
to keep or cause to be kept,  appropriate  records and books of account in which
complete  entries are to be made reflecting its and their business and financial
transactions,  such entries to be made in accordance  with Agreement  Accounting
Principles  consistently  applied.  1.16 1.17 Capital Stock and Dividends . If a
Default or an Unmatured  Default has occurred and is  continuing  or would occur
after  giving  effect  thereto,  the  Borrower  will not, nor will it permit any
Subsidiary to, (a) issue any preferred stock, other capital stock or any debt or
equity  securities  of any kind,  or (b)  declare  or pay any  dividends  on its
capital stock (other than dividends payable in its own capital stock) or redeem,
repurchase  or otherwise  acquire or retire any of its capital stock at any time
outstanding,  except that any  Subsidiary  may declare and pay  dividends to the
Borrower. 1.18 1.19 Indebtedness . The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any
Subsidiary to, create,  incur or suffer to exist any Indebtedness,  except: 1.20
(a) the Loans;

(a)  Indebtedness  existing on the date hereof and  described  in Schedule  5.17
     hereto; -------------

(a)  the 1993 Senior  Notes and the 1998 Senior  Notes,  provided  that the 1998
     Senior  Notes  shall be  issued  substantially  on the  terms  set forth on
     Schedule 6.11 hereto and  otherwise on terms and pursuant to  documentation
     satisfactory to the Agent;

(a)  Rate Hedging Obligations related to the Loans;

(a)  Letters of Credit with an aggregate face amount not to exceed $8,000,000 at
     any one time  outstanding or a credit  facility  providing for the issuance
     thereof;

(a)  Rate Hedging Obligations related to foreign currency exchange  transactions
     entered into in the ordinary course of business; and

(a)  such  additional  Indebtedness  incurred by the Borrower or any  Subsidiary
     which is either  unsecured  or secured  by liens  permitted  under  Section
     6.17(f)  as would not cause the Debt  Ratio  (determined,  as to the EBITDA
     component thereof, as of the end of the previous quarter,  but after giving
     effect to the incurrence of such Indebtedness),  to exceed 2.5 to 1.0 as of
     the date of such incurrence.

1.1 Merger . The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any  Subsidiary to, merge
or consolidate  with or into or sell all or  substantially  all of its assets to
any other Person;  provided,  that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may enter into
any merger or consolidation  with or sell all or substantially all of its assets
to, a  corporation  organized  under the laws of any state of the United  States
(the "surviving corporation"),  so long as (a) any entity with or into which the
Borrower is being merged or consolidated or to which all or substantially all of
the  Borrower's  assets are being sold assumes the  obligations  of the Borrower
under the Loan Documents by written instrument reasonably acceptable in form and
substance  to the  Required  Lenders,  (b) no Default or  Unmatured  Default has
occurred and is continuing or would occur after giving effect thereto, including
without  limitation  any Default or Unmatured  Default under  Section 7.14,  (c)
after giving  effect  thereto,  the  Borrower  could incur an  additional  $1 of
Indebtedness  pursuant to Section  6.11(g),  (d) the  Borrower  has provided the
Lenders with pro forma financial statements giving effect thereto which evidence
compliance  with  Section  6.28  hereof,  (e) the entity  with or into which the
Borrower or such  Subsidiary is being merged or  consolidated or to which all or
substantially all of the Borrower's or such  Subsidiary's  assets are being sold
is in  substantially  the same or a similar  type of business as the Borrower or
such Subsidiary and (f) such transaction is not a hostile takeover. 1.2 1.3 Sale
of Assets . The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any  Subsidiary to, lease,
sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its Property,  to any other Person except
for (a) sales of inventory in the ordinary  course of business,  and (b) so long
as no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, leases, sales,
transfers or other  dispositions  that,  together with all other Property of the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries previously leased, sold or disposed of (other than
inventory sold in the ordinary  course of business) as permitted by this Section
6.13, (i) in any fiscal year do not constitute more than 5% of the  consolidated
assets  of  the  Borrower  and  its  Subsidiaries,  as  would  be  shown  in the
consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the
end of the quarter next  preceding  the date of  determination,  or (ii) for the
period from the Closing Date through the date of determination do not constitute
more than 25% of such assets.  1.4 1.5 Sale and  Leaseback . The  Borrower  will
not, nor will it permit any  Subsidiary to, sell or transfer any of its Property
in  order to  concurrently  or  subsequently  lease as  lessee  such or  similar
Property. 1.6 1.7 Investments and Purchases . The Borrower will not, nor will it
permit any  Subsidiary to, make or suffer to exist any  Investments  (including,
without   limitation,   loans  and  advances  to,  and  other   Investments  in,
Subsidiaries),  or commitments  therefor,  or create any Subsidiary or become or
remain a partner in any  partnership or joint venture,  or make any Purchases of
any Person,  except: 1.8 (a) Short-term  obligations of, or fully guaranteed by,
the United States of America;

(a)  Commercial  paper  rated  A-l or  better  by  Standard  and  Poor's  Rating
     Services,  a division  of the McGraw  Hill  Companies,  or P-l or better by
     Moody's Investors Service, Inc.;

(a)  Demand deposit accounts maintained in the ordinary course of business;

(a)  Negotiable  certificates  of  deposit  issued  by and  time  deposits  with
     domestic   commercial  banks  having  capital  and  surplus  in  excess  of
     $250,000,000;

(a)  Municipal bonds rated BBB or better by Standard and Poor's Rating Services,
     a division of the McGraw Hill Companies;

(a)  Existing  Investments in Subsidiaries and other Investments in existence on
     the date hereof and described in Schedule 6.15 hereto;

(a)  Purchases by the Borrower or any  Subsidiary,  so long as (i) no Default or
     Unmatured  Default  has  occurred  and is  continuing  or would occur after
     giving effect thereto, (ii) after giving effect thereto, the Borrower could
     incur  an  additional  $1 of  Indebtedness  pursuant  to  Section  6.11(g),
     ---------------  (iii) the Borrower has provided the Lenders with pro forma
     financial  statements giving effect thereto which evidence  compliance with
     Section 6.28  hereof,  (iv) the entity being  acquired is  ------------  in
     substantially  the same or a similar  type of business as the  Borrower and
     (v) such transaction is not a hostile takeover; and

(a)  So long as no Default or Unmatured  Default has occurred and is continuing,
     other  Investments  (including  without  limitation the creation of and the
     making of Investments in newly-formed Subsidiaries) which do not exceed, in
     the  aggregate  at one  time  outstanding,  fifteen  percent  (15%)  of the
     aggregate  Capitalization of the Borrower and its  Subsidiaries;  provided,
     that  the  --------  Borrower  shall  not be  required  to  dispose  of any
     Investment  due to (i) a decrease in  Capitalization  following the date on
     which such  Investment  was made or (ii) the  occurrence of a Default or an
     Unmatured Default.

1.1  Contingent  Obligations  . The  Borrower  will not,  nor will it permit any
Subsidiary  to, make or suffer to exist any  Contingent  Obligation  (including,
without limitation, any Contingent Obligation with respect to the obligations of
a Subsidiary), except by endorsement of instruments for deposit or collection in
the ordinary course of business. 1.2 1.3 Liens . The Borrower will not, nor will
it permit any Subsidiary to, create,  incur,  or suffer to exist any Lien in, of
or on the Property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries,  except:  1.4 (a)
Liens for taxes,  assessments or governmental  charges or levies on its Property
if the  same  shall  not at the time be  delinquent  or  thereafter  can be paid
without  penalty,  or are  being  contested  in good  faith  and by  appropriate
proceedings  and for  which  adequate  reserves  in  accordance  with  generally
accepted principles of accounting shall have been set aside on its books;

(a)  Liens  imposed by law,  such as carriers',  warehousemen's  and  mechanics'
     liens and other similar  liens  arising in the ordinary  course of business
     which secure payment of obligations not more than 60 days past due or which
     are being contested in good faith by appropriate  proceedings and for which
     adequate reserves shall have been set aside on its books;

(a)  Liens arising out of pledges or deposits under worker's  compensation laws,
     unemployment  insurance,  old age  pensions,  or other  social  security or
     retirement benefits, or similar legislation;

(a)  Utility  easements,  building  restrictions and such other  encumbrances or
     charges  against real property as are of a nature  generally  existing with
     respect  to  properties  of a  similar  character  and  which do not in any
     material way affect the marketability of the same or interfere with the use
     thereof in the business of the Borrower or the Subsidiaries;

(a)  Liens  existing on the date hereof and  described in Schedule  6.17 hereto;
     and -------------

(a)  Purchase money Liens in connection  with the acquisition of assets intended
     to be used in the  ordinary  course of  business;  provided,  that (i) such
     Liens  attached  only  to  the  tangible   --------   Property   (including
     improvements to previously owned Property) so purchased or leased, (ii) the
     Indebtedness  secured by any such Lien does not exceed eighty percent (80%)
     of the purchase price of the Property or improvements,  as applicable,  and
     (iii) the  aggregate  Indebtedness  securing all such Liens at any one time
     outstanding   does  not  exceed  five   percent   (5%)  of  the   aggregate
     Capitalization of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.

1.1 Capital Expenditures . If a Default or an Unmatured Default has occurred and
is  continuing,  the Borrower  will not, nor will it permit any  Subsidiary  to,
expend, or be committed to expend for Capital Expenditures  (including,  without
limitation,  for the  acquisition  of fixed  assets)  during any fiscal  year in
excess of the amount of Capital  Expenditures  estimated  to be expended in such
fiscal year by the Borrower in the projections delivered to the Lenders pursuant
to Section 6.1(d).

1.1 Lease Rentals . The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to,
create, incur or suffer to exist obligations for Rentals in excess of $5,000,000
during any one fiscal year on a  non-cumulative  basis in the  aggregate for the
Borrower and its Subsidiaries.

1.1 Year 2000 . The Borrower  will take and will cause each of its  Subsidiaries
to take all such actions as are reasonably  necessary to successfully  implement
the Year 2000  Program  and to assure  that  Year  2000  Issues  will not have a
Material Adverse Effect. At the request of the Agent or any Lender, the Borrower
will provide a description  of the Year 2000 Program,  together with any updates
or  progress  reports  with  respect  thereto.  1.2 1.3  Letters of Credit . The
Borrower  will not,  nor will it permit any  Subsidiary  to, apply for or become
liable upon any Letter of Credit except as permitted under Section 6.11(e).

1.1  Affiliates . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any  Subsidiary to,
enter into any transaction (including,  without limitation, the purchase or sale
of any  Property or  service)  with,  or make any  payment or  transfer  to, any
Affiliate  except  in the  ordinary  course  of  business  and  pursuant  to the
reasonable requirements of the Borrower's or such Subsidiary's business and upon
fair and reasonable  terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such  Subsidiary
than the Borrower or such  Subsidiary  would obtain in a comparable  arms-length
transaction.  1.2 1.3 Amendments to Agreements . The Borrower will not, and will
not permit any  Subsidiary to, (a) amend,  waive,  modify or terminate the terms
and conditions  governing any preferred stock, (b) permit any amendment,  waiver
or modification of the Tax Sharing Agreement which is materially  adverse to the
interests  of the Lenders or  terminate  the Tax Sharing  Agreement  or (c) if a
Default or an  Unmatured  Default has occurred  and is  continuing,  directly or
indirectly  voluntarily  prepay,  defease  or in  substance  defease,  purchase,
redeem,  retire or  otherwise  acquire  any Senior  Note or redeem or retire any
preferred  stock.  1.4  (a)  Environmental  Matters  . If  the  Borrower  or any
Subsidiary  receives  notice  of any of the  following:  (i) the  issuance  of a
complaint,  notice or citation  alleging a violation of any Environmental Law or
regulation  by  the  Borrower  or  any  Subsidiary;  (ii)  the  issuance  of  an
administrative  or  judicial  complaint  or order  against  the  Borrower or any
Subsidiary seeking or requiring that action be taken to respond to or clean up a
"release"  of  "hazardous  substances"  (as  those  terms  are  defined  in  the
Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,   Compensation  and  Liability  Act,  as
amended, 42 U.S.C. ss.9601 et seq. ("CERCLA")) into the environment;  or (iii) a
notice alleging that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may be liable or responsible
for costs  associated with a response to or cleanup of a "release" of "hazardous
substances"  (as  those  terms  are  defined  in  CERCLA),  and if,  based  upon
information  reasonably  available  at the time of receipt,  the Borrower or any
Subsidiary  expects  that  any  such  complaint,  notice,  citation  or order is
reasonably  likely to  result in the  payment  of fines,  penalties,  compliance
costs,  clean-up  costs  or  other  associated  costs  by  the  Borrower  or any
Subsidiary  in excess of an  aggregate  of  $100,000,  then the  Borrower  shall
provide  the Agent  with a copy of such  notice  within  thirty  days of receipt
thereof  by the  Borrower  or  such  Subsidiary.  In  addition,  if at any  time
subsequent to any such notice, any information subsequently becomes available to
the Borrower or any Subsidiary  which leads the Borrower to expect that any such
complaint,  notice, or citation is reasonably likely to result in the payment of
fines, penalties,  compliance costs, clean-up costs or other associated costs by
the Borrower or any  Subsidiary in excess of an aggregate of $100,000,  then the
Borrower  shall  provide  the Agent with a copy of such  notice and a summary of
such  information  within ten days  after  receipt  of such  information  by the
Borrower  or any  Subsidiary.  (b) (c)  Within ten days of the  Borrower  or any
Subsidiary having learned of the proposal, enactment or
                  promulgation of any federal,  state or local environmental law
                  or  regulation  which could  reasonably  be expected to have a
                  Material Adverse Effect,  the Borrower shall provide the Agent
                  with written notice thereof.

1.1  Agreements as to Prohibited  Acts . Neither the Borrower nor any subsidiary
shall  agree or in any manner  commit  itself to take or fail to take any action
which, if taken or not taken, as applicable,  would  constitute a breach of this
Agreement.  1.2 1.3 Change in  Corporate  Structure;  Fiscal Year . The Borrower
shall not, nor shall it permit any  Subsidiary  to, (a) permit any  amendment or
modification  to be made to its  certificate  or  articles of  incorporation  or
by-laws  which is materially  adverse to the interests of the Lenders  (provided
that the Borrower shall notify the Agent of any other  amendment or modification
thereto as soon as practicable  thereafter) or (b) change its fiscal year to end
on any date other than December 31 of each year. 1.4 1.5 Inconsistent Agreements
 . The Borrower  shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any
indenture,  agreement,  instrument  or other  arrangement  which (a) directly or
indirectly  prohibits  or  restrains,  or  has  the  effect  of  prohibiting  or
restraining,  or imposes  materially  adverse conditions upon, the incurrence of
the  Obligations,  the  granting of Liens  pursuant to the Loan  Documents,  the
amending of the Loan  Documents or the ability of any  Subsidiary  to declare or
pay  dividends  or  otherwise  advance  funds to its parent or (b)  contains any
provision  which  would be  violated or breached by the making of Advances or by
the  performance  by the  Borrower  of any of its  obligations  under  any  Loan
Document. 1.6 1.7 Financial Covenants. 1.8
                  6.28.1 Interest Expense Coverage Ratio . As of the end of each
         of its fiscal  quarters,  the Borrower will cause the Interest  Expense
         Coverage Ratio for the then most-recently ended four fiscal quarters to
         be not less than 4.0 to 1.0.

                  6.28.2.  Debt  Ratio . As of the  end of  each  of its  fiscal
         quarters,  the  Borrower  will cause the Debt Ratio to be not more than
         2.5 to 1.0.

                  6.28.3.  Minimum  Net Worth.  The  Borrower  will at all times
         maintain Net Worth of not less than (a) $70,000,000  through January 1,
         2000,  (b)  $75,000,000  through  December  30, 2000,  (c)  $80,000,000
         through  December 29, 2001, (d) $85,000,000  through  December 28, 2002
         and (e) $90,000,000 through January 3, 2004.


1                                                     ARTICLE DEFAULTS

         The  occurrence  of any  one or  more  of the  following  events  shall
constitute a Default:

1.1 Any  representation  or warranty  made or deemed made by or on behalf of the
Borrower  or any of its  Subsidiaries  to the  Lenders or the Agent  under or in
connection  with this  Agreement,  any Loan, or any  certificate  or information
delivered in connection  with this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be
false in any material respect on the date as of which made.

1.1  Nonpayment  of (a) principal of any Note when due, or (b) interest upon any
Note or any  commitment  fee or other fee or  obligations  under any of the Loan
Documents within five (5) days after the same becomes due. 1.2 1.3 The breach by
the Borrower of any of the terms or  provisions  of Sections 6.2 or 6.10 through
6.28. 1.4 1.5 The breach by the Borrower (other than a breach which  constitutes
a Default  under  Section 7.1, 7.2 or 7.3) of any of the terms or  provisions of
this Agreement  which is not remedied  within five (5) days after written notice
from the Agent or any Lender.  1.6 1.7 The default by the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries in the performance of any term, provision or condition contained in
any agreement or agreements under which any  Indebtedness  aggregating in excess
of $2,000,000  was created or is governed,  or the occurrence of any other event
or the existence of any other condition, the effect of any of which is to cause,
or to  permit  the  holder  or  holders  of such  Indebtedness  to  cause,  such
Indebtedness  to  become  due  prior  to  its  stated  maturity;   or  any  such
Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries  shall be declared to be
due and payable or required to be prepaid  (other than by a regularly  scheduled
payment)  prior to the stated  maturity  thereof;  or the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries  shall become unable, not pay, or admit in writing its inability to
pay, its debts  generally as they become due. 1.8 1.9 The Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries shall (a) have an order for relief entered with respect to it under
the  Federal  bankruptcy  laws  as now or  hereafter  in  effect,  (b)  make  an
assignment  for the benefit of creditors,  (c) apply for,  seek,  consent to, or
acquiesce  in, the  appointment  of a receiver,  custodian,  trustee,  examiner,
liquidator  or  similar  official  for  it or  any  Substantial  Portion  of its
Property,  (d)  institute any  proceeding  seeking an order for relief under the
Federal  bankruptcy  laws as now or hereafter in effect or seeking to adjudicate
it a bankrupt or insolvent,  or seeking  dissolution,  winding up,  liquidation,
reorganization,  arrangement, adjustment or composition of it or its debts under
any law  relating  to  bankruptcy,  insolvency  or  reorganization  or relief of
debtors  or fail to file an  answer  or  other  pleading  denying  the  material
allegations  of any such  proceeding  filed  against it, (e) take any  corporate
action to  authorize  or effect any of the  foregoing  actions set forth in this
Section 7.6, or (f) fail to contest in good faith any  appointment or proceeding
described in Section 7.7. 1.10 1.11 Without the application, approval or consent
of the  Borrower  or any of its  Subsidiaries,  a receiver,  trustee,  examiner,
liquidator or similar official shall be appointed for the Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries  or any  Substantial  Portion  of  its  Property,  or a  proceeding
described in Section  7.6(d) shall be instituted  against the Borrower or any of
its Subsidiaries and such appointment continues  undischarged or such proceeding
continues  undismissed or unstayed for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days.
1.12 1.13 Any court,  government or governmental agency shall condemn,  seize or
otherwise  appropriate,  or take custody or control of (each a  "Condemnation"),
all or any portion of the Property of the Borrower and its  Subsidiaries  which,
when taken together with all other Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries
so condemned, seized,  appropriated,  or taken custody or control of, during the
twelve-month period ending with the month in which any such Condemnation occurs,
constitutes  a  Substantial  Portion.  1.14  1.15  The  Borrower  or  any of its
Subsidiaries  shall fail within thirty days to pay, bond or otherwise  discharge
any  judgment  or order  for the  payment  of money in excess  of  $500,000  (or
multiple judgments or orders for the payment of an aggregate amount in excess of
$2,000,000),  which is not  stayed on appeal or  otherwise  being  appropriately
contested  in good  faith.  1.16  1.17 Any  Unfunded  Liabilities  in  excess of
$3,000,000  under any Single  Employer Plan shall exist or any Reportable  Event
shall occur in  connection  with any Plan.  1.18 1.19 The  Borrower or any other
member of the  Controlled  Group  shall have been  notified  by the sponsor of a
Multiemployer   Plan  that  it  has  incurred   withdrawal   liability  to  such
Multiemployer Plan. 1.20 1.21 The Borrower or any other member of the Controlled
Group shall have been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer  Plan that such
Multiemployer  Plan is in  reorganization  or is being  terminated,  within  the
meaning  of  Title  IV of  ERISA,  and as a  result  of such  reorganization  or
termination  the aggregate  annual  contributions  of the Borrower and the other
members of the Controlled  Group (taken as a whole) to all  Multiemployer  Plans
which  are  then in  reorganization  or  being  terminated  has  been or will be
increased  over the  amounts  contributed  to such  Multiemployer  Plans for the
respective plan years of each such Multiemployer Plan immediately  preceding the
plan year in which the reorganization or termination occurs by any amount.  1.22
1.23  The  Borrower  or any of its  Subsidiaries  shall  be the  subject  of any
proceeding  or  investigation  pertaining  to  the  discovery  of any  toxic  or
hazardous  waste or substance on the leased or owned property of the Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries, the release by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries,
or any other  Person  of any  toxic or  hazardous  waste or  substance  into the
environment,  or any  violation  of any federal,  state or local  environmental,
health or safety law or regulation,  which, in either case,  could reasonably be
expected  to have a  Material  Adverse  Effect.  1.24 1.25 Any Change in Control
shall occur. 1.26

1     ARTICLE     ACCELERATION,     WAIVERS,     AMENDMENTS     AND     REMEDIES
- ----------------------------------------------

1.1  Acceleration  . If any Default  described in Section 7.6 or 7.7 occurs with
respect to the Borrower,  the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder
shall  automatically  terminate and the Obligations shall immediately become due
and  payable  without  any  election  or  action on the part of the Agent or any
Lender. If any other Default occurs, the Required Lenders (or the Agent with the
consent of the Required Lenders) may terminate or suspend the obligations of the
Lenders  to make  Loans  hereunder,  or declare  the  Obligations  to be due and
payable,  or both,  whereupon the Obligations  shall become  immediately due and
payable,  without  presentment,  demand,  protest or notice of any kind,  all of
which the Borrower hereby expressly waives.

         Within ten (10) Business Days after acceleration of the maturity of the
Obligations  or  termination  of the  obligations  of the  Lenders to make Loans
hereunder  as a result of any Default  (other than any Default as  described  in
Section  7.6 or 7.7 with  respect to the  Borrower)  and before any  judgment or
decree  for the  payment of the  Obligations  due shall  have been  obtained  or
entered, if the Required Lenders (in their sole discretion) shall so direct, the
Agent  shall,  by notice to the  Borrower,  rescind and annul such  acceleration
and/or termination.

1.1  Amendments . Subject to the  provisions of this Article VIII,  the Required
     Lenders (or the Agent with the consent in writing of the Required  Lenders)
     and the  Borrower  may enter into  agreements  supplemental  hereto for the
     purpose of adding or  modifying  any  provisions  to the Loan  Documents or
     changing in any manner the rights of the Lenders or the Borrower  hereunder
     or  waiving  any  Default  hereunder;   provided,  however,  that  no  such
     supplemental  agreement shall,  without the consent of each Lender affected
     thereby:  

1.2 (a) Extend the final  maturity  of any Loan or Note or reduce
     the  principal  amount  thereof,  or reduce  the rate or extend the time of
     payment of interest or fees thereon;

(a)  Reduce the percentage specified in the definition of Required Lenders;

(a)  Reduce the amount or extend the  payment  date for the  mandatory  payments
     required under Section 2.2, or increase the amount of the Revolving  Credit
     Commitment  of any Lender  hereunder,  or permit the Borrower to assign its
     rights under this Agreement;

(a)  Extend the Facility Termination Date;

(a)  Amend this Section 8.2 or any of Sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.4; or  -----------
     ------------ --- ---

(a)  Consent to any assignment by the Borrower of the Obligations  except to the
     extent expressly permitted by Section 6.12.

No amendment of any provision of this  Agreement  relating to the Agent shall be
effective  without the written consent of the Agent. The Agent may waive payment
of the fee required under Section  12.3.2  without  obtaining the consent of any
other party to this Agreement.

1.1 Preservation of Rights . No delay or omission of the Lenders or the Agent to
exercise  any right  under the Loan  Documents  shall  impair  such  right or be
construed  to be a waiver of any  Default or an  acquiescence  therein,  and the
making of a Loan  notwithstanding the existence of a Default or the inability of
the  Borrower  to  satisfy  the  conditions  precedent  to such  Loan  shall not
constitute  any waiver or  acquiescence.  Any single or partial  exercise of any
such right shall not preclude other or further  exercise thereof or the exercise
of any other right,  and no waiver,  amendment or other  variation of the terms,
conditions or provisions of the Loan Documents  whatsoever shall be valid unless
in writing signed by the Lenders required pursuant to Section 8.2, and then only
to the extent in such writing  specifically set forth. All remedies contained in
the Loan  Documents  or by law  afforded  shall be  cumulative  and all shall be
available to the Agent and the Lenders until the  Obligations  have been paid in
full.


1                                                ARTICLE GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.1 Survival of  Representations  . All  representations  and  warranties of the
Borrower  contained  in this  Agreement  or of the  Borrower  or any  Subsidiary
contained  in any Loan  Document  shall  survive  delivery  of the Notes and the
making of the Loans herein contemplated.

1.1  Governmental  Regulation  . Anything  contained  in this  Agreement  to the
contrary  notwithstanding,  no Lender shall be obligated to extend credit to the
Borrower  in  violation  of  any  limitation  or  prohibition  provided  by  any
applicable statute or regulation.  1.2 1.3 Taxes . Any taxes (excluding taxes on
the overall net income of any Lender) or other  similar  assessments  or charges
payable or ruled  payable by any  governmental  authority in respect of the Loan
Documents  shall be paid by the Borrower,  together with interest and penalties,
if any.  1.4 1.5  Headings  . Section  headings  in the Loan  Documents  are for
convenience of reference only, and shall not govern the interpretation of any of
the  provisions  of the Loan  Documents.  1.6 1.7  Entire  Agreement  . The Loan
Documents embody the entire agreement and understanding among the Borrower,  the
Agent and the Lenders and  supersede  all prior  agreements  and  understandings
among the  Borrower,  the Agent and the Lenders  relating to the subject  matter
thereof other than the fee letter dated July 15, 1993 in favor of First Chicago,
the letter dated  February  27, 1996 between the Borrower and First  Chicago and
the letter dated July 22, 1998 between the Borrower and First  Chicago.  1.8 1.9
Several Obligations;  Benefits of this Agreement . The respective obligations of
the  Lenders  hereunder  are  several  and not joint and no Lender  shall be the
partner  or agent of any  other  (except  to the  extent  to which  the Agent is
authorized  to act as such).  The  failure of any  Lender to perform  any of its
obligations  hereunder  shall  not  relieve  any  other  Lender  from any of its
obligations hereunder. This Agreement shall not be construed so as to confer any
right or benefit  upon any Person other than the parties to this  Agreement  and
their  respective  successors and assigns  provided,  however,  that the parties
hereto  expressly  agree  that the  Arranger  shall  enjoy the  benefits  of the
provisions of Sections 9.7, 9.11 and 10.10 to the extent  specifically set forth
therein and shall have the right to enforce  such  provisions  on its own behalf
and in its own name to the same extent as if it were a party to this  Agreement.
1.10 (a) Expenses;  Indemnification . The Borrower shall reimburse the Agent and
the  Arranger  for  any  costs,  internal  charges  and  out-of-pocket  expenses
(including  attorneys'  fees and time charges of attorneys for the Agent,  which
attorneys  may be  employees  of the Agent) paid or incurred by the Agent or the
Arranger in connection with the preparation,  negotiation,  execution, delivery,
syndication,  review,  amendment,  modification,  and administration of the Loan
Documents. The Borrower also agrees to reimburse the Agent, the Arranger and the
Lenders for any costs,  internal charges and out-of-pocket  expenses  (including
attorneys'  fees and time charges of attorneys  for the Agent,  the Arranger and
the Lenders,  which attorneys may be employees of the Agent, the Arranger or the
Lenders) paid or incurred by the Agent, the Arranger or any Lender in connection
with the collection and enforcement of the Loan Documents.  The Borrower further
agrees to indemnify  the Agent,  the Arranger  and each Lender,  its  directors,
officers  and  employees  against  all  losses,  claims,   damages,   penalties,
judgments, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, all expenses
of litigation or preparation  therefor whether or not the Agent or any Lender is
a party  thereto)  which any of them may pay or incur arising out of or relating
to this  Agreement,  the other Loan  Documents,  the  transactions  contemplated
hereby or thereby or the direct or indirect  application or proposed application
of the proceeds of any Loan  hereunder.  The  obligations  of the Borrower under
this Section shall survive the  termination of this  Agreement.  (b) (c) (b) The
Borrower shall  indemnify,  pay and hold the Agent, the Arranger and each Lender
harmless  from  and  against  any  and all  losses,  costs  (including,  without
limitation,  court costs and attorneys' fees), liabilities,  injuries, expenses,
claims and damages  whatsoever  incurred or suffered by or asserted  against the
Agent,  the Arranger or such Lender by reason of any violation of any applicable
Environmental Law for which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is liable or
which is related to any real estate owned, leased or operated by the Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries, or by reason of the imposition of any governmental lien
for the recovery of  environmental  cleanup or response costs expended by reason
of any  such  violation,  or by  reason  of any  breach  of any  representation,
warranty or  affirmative  or negative  covenant  of this  Agreement,  including,
without  limitation,  by reason of any matter disclosed in Schedule 5.20 hereto;
provided,  that to the extent that the  Borrower or any of its  Subsidiaries  is
strictly  liable under any such statute,  order or  regulation,  the  Borrower's
obligation to the Agent, the Arranger and each Lender under this indemnity shall
likewise  be without  regard to fault on the part of the  Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries  with respect to the violation of law which results in liability to
the Agent,  the Arranger or any Lender.  The provisions of and  undertakings and
indemnification  set out in this Section 9.7 shall  survive the  termination  of
this Agreement and the payment and  satisfaction of the  Obligations,  and shall
continue to be the liability,  obligation and  indemnification  of the Borrower,
binding upon the Borrower. 1.11 Numbers of Documents . All statements,  notices,
closing  documents and requests  hereunder  shall be furnished to the Agent with
sufficient  counterparts  so  that  the  Agent  may  furnish  one to each of the
Lenders.  1.12 1.13 Accounting . Except as provided to the contrary herein,  all
accounting   terms  used  herein  shall  be   interpreted   and  all  accounting
determinations  hereunder shall be made in accordance with Agreement  Accounting
Principles.  1.14 1.15  Severability  of  Provisions . Any provision in any Loan
Document  that is held  to be  inoperative,  unenforceable,  or  invalid  in any
jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be inoperative,  unenforceable,  or
invalid without  affecting the remaining  provisions in that jurisdiction or the
operation,   enforceability,   or  validity  of  that  provision  in  any  other
jurisdiction,  and to this end the provisions of all Loan Documents are declared
to be severable.  1.16 1.17  Nonliability of Lenders . The relationship  between
the  Borrower and the Lenders and the Agent shall be solely that of borrower and
lender.  Neither the Agent, the Arranger nor any Lender shall have any fiduciary
responsibilities to the Borrower. Neither the Agent, the Arranger nor any Lender
undertakes any  responsibility  to the Borrower to review or inform the Borrower
of any  matter  in  connection  with any  phase of the  Borrower's  business  or
operations.  The Borrower shall rely entirely upon its own judgment with respect
to its business,  and any review,  inspection or supervision  of, or information
supplied to the  Borrower by the Agent,  the  Arranger or the Lenders is for the
protection  of the Agent,  the Arranger and the Lenders and neither the Borrower
nor any other Person is entitled to rely  thereon.  The Borrower (a) agrees that
neither the Agent,  the  Arranger  nor any Lender  shall have  liability  to the
Borrower (whether  sounding in tort,  contract or otherwise) for losses suffered
by the Borrower in  connection  with,  arising out of, or in any way related to,
the  transactions  contemplated  and the  relationship  established  by the Loan
Documents,  or any act,  omission or event  occurring in  connection  therewith,
unless it is  determined  by a judgment of a court that is binding on the Agent,
the  Arranger or such  Lender,  final and not subject to review on appeal,  that
such losses were the result of acts or omissions  on the part of the Agent,  the
Arranger or such  Lender,  as the case may be,  constituting  gross  negligence,
willful  misconduct or knowing  violations of law, and (b) waives,  releases and
agrees not to sue upon any claim  against the Agent,  the Arranger or any Lender
(whether  sounding  in tort,  contract or  otherwise)  except a claim based upon
gross negligence,  willful  misconduct or knowing  violations of law. Whether or
not such  damages are related to a claim that is subject to the waiver  effected
above and  whether  or not such  waiver is  effective,  none of the  Agent,  the
Arranger  nor any  Lender  shall have any  liability  with  respect  to, and the
Borrower  hereby  waives,  releases  and  agrees  not to sue for,  any  special,
indirect or  consequential  damages suffered by the Borrower in connection with,
arising out of, or in any way related to the  transactions  contemplated  or the
relationship  established by the Loan Documents,  or any act,  omission or event
occurring in  connection  therewith,  unless it is determined by a judgment of a
court that is binding on the Agent, the Arranger or such Lender, as the case may
be, final and not subject to review on appeal, that such damages were the result
of acts or omissions on the part of the Agent,  the Arranger or such Lender,  as
the case may be,  constituting  gross negligence,  willful misconduct or knowing
violations  of law.  1.18 1.19  CHOICE OF LAW . THE LOAN  DOCUMENTS  (OTHER THAN
THOSE  CONTAINING A CONTRARY EXPRESS CHOICE OF LAW PROVISION) SHALL BE CONSTRUED
IN  ACCORDANCE  WITH THE  INTERNAL  LAWS,  WITHOUT  REGARD TO  CONFLICT  OF LAWS
PROVISIONS,  OF THE  STATE OF  ILLINOIS,  BUT  GIVING  EFFECT  TO  FEDERAL  LAWS
APPLICABLE TO NATIONAL  BANKS.  1.20 1.21 CONSENT TO JURISDICTION . THE BORROWER
HEREBY  IRREVOCABLY  SUBMITS  TO THE  NON-EXCLUSIVE  JURISDICTION  OF ANY UNITED
STATES  FEDERAL  OR  ILLINOIS  STATE  COURT  SITTING IN CHICAGO IN ANY ACTION OR
PROCEEDING  ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY LOAN  DOCUMENTS  AND THE  BORROWER
HEREBY  IRREVOCABLY  AGREES  THAT  ALL  CLAIMS  IN  RESPECT  OF SUCH  ACTION  OR
PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN ANY SUCH COURT AND IRREVOCABLY  WAIVES
ANY  OBJECTION  IT MAY NOW OR  HEREAFTER  HAVE AS TO THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT,
ACTION  OR  PROCEEDING  BROUGHT  IN  SUCH A  COURT  OR  THAT  SUCH  COURT  IS AN
INCONVENIENT  FORUM.  NOTHING  HEREIN  SHALL LIMIT THE RIGHT OF THE AGENT OR ANY
LENDER TO BRING  PROCEEDINGS  AGAINST  THE  BORROWER  IN THE COURTS OF ANY OTHER
JURISDICTION.  ANY JUDICIAL  PROCEEDING BY THE BORROWER AGAINST THE AGENT OR ANY
LENDER  OR ANY  AFFILIATE  OF THE AGENT OR ANY  LENDER  INVOLVING,  DIRECTLY  OR
INDIRECTLY,  ANY MATTER IN ANY WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO, OR CONNECTED WITH
ANY  LOAN  DOCUMENT  SHALL BE  BROUGHT  ONLY IN A COURT  IN  CHICAGO,  ILLINOIS;
PROVIDED,  THAT SUCH  PROCEEDINGS MAY BE BROUGHT IN OTHER COURTS IF JURISDICTION
MAY NOT BE OBTAINED IN A COURT IN  CHICAGO,  ILLINOIS.  1.22 1.23 WAIVER OF JURY
TRIAL . THE  BORROWER,  THE AGENT AND EACH LENDER  HEREBY WAIVE TRIAL BY JURY IN
ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING INVOLVING,  DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY,  ANY MATTER (WHETHER
SOUNDING IN TORT,  CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) IN ANY WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO,
OR CONNECTED WITH ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE RELATIONSHIP  ESTABLISHED THEREUNDER.
1.24 1.25  Disclosure . The Borrower and each Lender hereby (a)  acknowledge and
agree that First Chicago and/or its Affiliates  from time to time may hold other
investments  in,  make  other  loans  to or have  other  relationships  with the
Borrower, including, without limitation, in connection with (i) the placement of
the 1993  Senior  Notes  and (ii)  any  interest  rate  hedging  instruments  or
agreements or swap transactions, and (b) waive any liability of First Chicago or
such  Affiliate to the Borrower or any Lender,  respectively,  arising out of or
resulting from such investments,  loans or relationships  other than liabilities
arising out of the gross  negligence  or willful  misconduct of First Chicago or
its  Affiliates.  The Borrower hereby  acknowledges  and agrees that each Lender
and/or its  Affiliates  from time to time may hold other  investments  in,  make
other  loans to or have other  relationships  with the  Borrower  and waives any
liability of such Lender or Affiliate  to the  Borrower in  connection  with the
transactions  contemplated by this Agreement and to the extent arising out of or
resulting from such investments, loans, or relationships, other than liabilities
arising  out of the gross  negligence  or willful  misconduct  of such Lender or
Affiliate.  1.26  Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in any number of
counterparts,  all of which taken together shall  constitute one agreement,  and
any of the  parties  hereto may  execute  this  Agreement  by  signing  any such
counterpart.  This Agreement shall be effective when it has been executed by the
Borrower,  the Agent and the  Lenders and each party has  notified  the Agent by
telex or  telephone,  that it has taken such  action.  1.27 1.28 9.17  Departing
Lenders.  Upon  the  effectiveness  of this  Agreement  and the  payment  to the
Departing  Lenders of the Obligations due them, (a) the Departing  Lenders shall
have no further Commitments  hereunder and (b) the Departing Lenders shall cease
to have any rights or duties as Lenders  hereunder;  provided however,  that the
Departing Lenders shall remain entitled to indemnities  hereunder which by their
terms survive termination of this Agreement. 1.29 1.30

1                                                    ARTICLE THE AGENT

1.1 Appointment . The First National Bank of Chicago is hereby appointed by each
of the Lenders as its contractual  representative hereunder and under each other
Loan  Document,  and each of the Lenders,  subject to the  provisions of Section
10.11, irrevocably authorizes the Agent to act as the contractual representative
of such Lender with the rights and duties  expressly set forth herein and in the
other Loan Documents. The Agent agrees to act as such contractual representative
upon the express conditions contained in this Article X. Notwithstanding the use
of the defined  term  "Agent," it is  expressly  understood  and agreed that the
Agent shall not have any fiduciary  responsibilities  to any Lender by reason of
this Agreement or any other Loan Document and that the Agent is merely acting as
the  contractual  representative  of the Lenders  with only those  duties as are
expressly  set forth in this  Agreement  and the other  Loan  Documents.  In its
capacity  as the  Lenders'  contractual  representative,  the Agent (i) does not
hereby  assume  any  fiduciary  duties  to  any  of  the  Lenders,   (ii)  is  a
"representative"  of the  Lenders  within the  meaning  of Section  9-105 of the
Uniform  Commercial Code and (iii) is acting as an independent  contractor,  the
rights and  duties of which are  limited  to those  expressly  set forth in this
Agreement and the other Loan Documents.

1.1 Powers . The Agent shall have and may  exercise  such powers  under the Loan
Documents  as are  specifically  delegated  to the  Agent  by the  terms of each
thereof,  together with such powers as are reasonably  incidental  thereto.  The
Agent shall have no implied  duties to the  Lenders,  or any  obligation  to the
Lenders to take any action thereunder,  except any action specifically  provided
by the Loan  Documents  to be taken by the  Agent.  1.2 1.3  General  Immunity .
Neither the Agent nor any of its directors,  officers, agents or employees shall
be liable to the  Borrower  or any Lender for any action  taken or omitted to be
taken by it or them  hereunder or under any other Loan Document or in connection
herewith or therewith  except for its or their own gross  negligence  or willful
misconduct.  1.4 1.5 No  Responsibility  for Loans,  Recitals,  etc. Neither the
Agent  nor  any of  its  directors,  officers,  agents  or  employees  shall  be
responsible  for or have any duty to ascertain,  inquire into, or verify (a) any
statement,  warranty or representation made in connection with any Loan Document
or any  borrowing  hereunder,  (b) the  performance  or observance of any of the
covenants  or  agreements  of any  obligor  under  any  Loan  Document,  (c) the
satisfaction  of any condition  specified in Article IV, except receipt of items
required  to be  delivered  to the Agent and not waived at  closing,  or (d) the
validity,  effectiveness  or  genuineness  of any  Loan  Document  or any  other
instrument  or writing  furnished  in  connection  therewith.  1.6 1.7 Action on
Instructions  of Lenders . The Agent  shall in all cases be fully  protected  in
acting,  or in  refraining  from  acting,  hereunder  and under  any other  Loan
Document in accordance with written instructions signed by the Required Lenders,
and such  instructions  and any action taken or failure to act pursuant  thereto
shall be binding on all of the Lenders  and on all  holders of Notes.  The Agent
shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action hereunder and
under any  other  Loan  Document  unless it shall  first be  indemnified  to its
satisfaction  by the Lenders pro rata  against any and all  liability,  cost and
expense  that it may incur by reason  of taking or  continuing  to take any such
action.  1.8 1.9 Employment of Agents and Counsel . The Agent may execute any of
its duties as Agent  hereunder  and under any other Loan  Document by or through
employees,  agents  and  attorneys-in-fact  and shall not be  answerable  to the
Lenders,  except  as to money or  securities  received  by it or its  authorized
agents,  for the default or misconduct  of any such agents or  attorneys-in-fact
selected by it with  reasonable  care.  The Agent shall be entitled to advice of
counsel  concerning all matters  pertaining to the agency hereby created and its
duties  hereunder  and under any other  Loan  Document.  1.10 1.11  Reliance  on
Documents;  Counsel . The Agent shall be entitled to rely upon any Note, notice,
consent, certificate,  affidavit, letter, telegram, statement, paper or document
believed  by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed or sent by the
proper person or persons,  and, in respect to legal matters, upon the opinion of
counsel selected by the Agent, which counsel may be employees of the Agent. 1.12
1.13 Agent's  Reimbursement and Indemnification . The Lenders agree to reimburse
and indemnify the Agent  ratably in proportion to their  respective  Commitments
(a) for any  amounts  not  reimbursed  by the  Borrower  for  which the Agent is
entitled to  reimbursement  by the Borrower  under the Loan  Documents  (but not
including any agent's fees), (b) for any other expenses incurred by the Agent on
behalf of the Lenders, in connection with the preparation,  execution, delivery,
administration  and  enforcement  of  the  Loan  Documents,   and  (c)  for  any
liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits,
costs,  expenses or disbursements of any kind and nature whatsoever which may be
imposed on, incurred by or asserted  against the Agent in any way relating to or
arising out of the Loan Documents or any other document  delivered in connection
therewith or the transactions contemplated thereby, or the enforcement of any of
the terms thereof or of any such other documents;  provided that no Lender shall
be liable  for any of the  foregoing  to the  extent  they  arise from the gross
negligence or willful  misconduct of the Agent.  The  obligations of the Lenders
under this Section 10.8 shall survive payment of the Obligations and termination
of this  Agreement.  1.14 1.15  Rights as a Lender . In the event the Agent is a
Lender,  the Agent shall have the same rights and powers hereunder and under any
other Loan  Document as any Lender and may  exercise  the same as though it were
not the Agent, the Agent shall have the same obligations and responsibilities as
any Lender and the term "Lender" or "Lenders"  shall, at any time when the Agent
is a Lender,  unless the context otherwise  indicates,  include the Agent in its
individual  capacity.  The Agent may accept  deposits  from,  lend money to, and
generally engage in any kind of trust,  debt,  equity or other  transaction,  in
addition to those  contemplated  by this  Agreement or any other Loan  Document,
with the  Borrower  or any of its  Subsidiaries  in which the  Borrower  or such
Subsidiary is not  restricted  hereby from  engaging with any other Person.  The
Agent,  in its individual  capacity,  is not obligated to remain a Lender.  1.16
1.17  Lender  Credit   Decision  .  Each  Lender   acknowledges   that  it  has,
independently  and without  reliance  upon the Agent,  the Arranger or any other
Lender and based on the financial  statements  prepared by the Borrower and such
other  documents  and  information  as it has deemed  appropriate,  made its own
credit  analysis  and decision to enter into this  Agreement  and the other Loan
Documents. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without
reliance  upon the Agent,  the  Arranger  or any other  Lender and based on such
documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time,  continue to
make its own  credit  decisions  in  taking  or not  taking  action  under  this
Agreement and the other Loan  Documents.  1.18 1.19 Successor  Agent . The Agent
may resign at any time by giving  written  notice thereof to the Lenders and the
Borrower,  and the Agent may be  removed  at any time with or  without  cause by
written notice  received by the Agent from the Required  Lenders.  Upon any such
resignation or removal, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint, on
behalf of the Borrower and the Lenders, a successor Agent. If no successor Agent
shall have been so  appointed by the  Required  Lenders and shall have  accepted
such appointment  within thirty days after the retiring Agent's giving notice of
resignation,  then the retiring Agent may appoint, on behalf of the Borrower and
the Lenders,  a successor Agent. Such successor Agent shall be a commercial bank
having  capital  and  retained  earnings  of at  least  $150,000,000.  Upon  the
acceptance of any  appointment  as Agent  hereunder by a successor  Agent,  such
successor  Agent  shall  thereupon  succeed  to and become  vested  with all the
rights, powers,  privileges and duties of the retiring or removed Agent, and the
retiring or removed  Agent shall be discharged  from its duties and  obligations
hereunder  and under the other Loan  Documents.  After any  retiring  or removed
Agent's  resignation  or removal  hereunder  as Agent,  the  provisions  of this
Article X shall  continue  in effect for its  benefit in respect of any  actions
taken or omitted  to be taken by it while it was  acting as the Agent  hereunder
and under the other  Loan  Documents.  1.20 1.21  Notice of  Default . The Agent
shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default
or  Unmatured  Default  hereunder  unless the Agent has  received  notice from a
Lender or the Borrower  referring to this Agreement  describing  such Default or
Unmatured Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default".  In the
event that the Agent receives such a notice,  the Agent shall give prompt notice
thereof to the Lenders.  Subject to the  provisions of Section  10.5,  the Agent
shall take any action of the type  specified in this  Agreement  with respect to
such  Default  or  Unmatured  Default  as shall be  reasonably  directed  by the
Required Lenders (or, if so required by Section 8.2, by all Lenders);  provided,
that unless and until the Agent shall have received such  directions,  the Agent
may (but shall not be  obligated  to) take such  action,  or refrain from taking
such action,  with  respect to such  Default or  Unmatured  Default as the Agent
shall determine is in the best interests of the Lenders. 1.22 1.23 Delegation to
Affiliates . The Borrower and the Lenders  agree that the Agent may delegate any
of its duties under this Agreement to any of its Affiliates.  Any such Affiliate
(and such Affiliate's directors,  officers, agents and employees) which performs
duties in connection  with this  Agreement  shall be subject to the  obligations
relating  to such  duties  and shall be  entitled  to the same  benefits  of the
indemnification,  waiver and other  protective  provisions to which the Agent is
entitled under Articles IX and X. 1.24

1                                             ARTICLE SETOFF; RATABLE PAYMENTS

1.1  Setoff . In  addition  to,  and  without  limitation  of, any rights of the
Lenders  under  applicable  law,  if the  Borrower  becomes  insolvent,  however
evidenced,  or any Default or  Unmatured  Default  occurs,  any and all deposits
(including all account balances, whether provisional or final and whether or not
collected or available) and any other  Indebtedness at any time held or owing by
any Lender to or for the credit or  account  of the  Borrower  may be offset and
applied toward the payment of the Obligations  owing to such Lender,  whether or
not the Obligations, or any part hereof, shall then be due.

1.1  Ratable  Payments  . If any  Lender,  whether by setoff or  otherwise,  has
payment  made to it upon its Loans  (other than  payments  received  pursuant to
Section  2.24(a),  3.1,  3.2 or 3.4) in a greater  proportion  than its pro-rata
share of such Loans,  such Lender  agrees,  promptly upon demand,  to purchase a
portion of the Loans held by the other  Lenders so that after such purchase each
Lender  will hold its ratable  proportion  of Loans.  If any Lender,  whether in
connection with setoff or amounts which might be subject to setoff or otherwise,
receives  collateral or other  protection  for its  Obligations  or such amounts
which may be subject to setoff,  such Lender  agrees,  promptly upon demand,  to
take such action  necessary  such that all Lenders share in the benefits of such
collateral  ratably in  proportion  to their Loans.  In case any such payment is
disturbed by legal process, or otherwise,  appropriate further adjustments shall
be made.  If an  amount to be setoff is to be  applied  to  Indebtedness  of the
Borrower to a Lender, other than Indebtedness evidenced by any of the Notes held
by such Lender,  such amount shall be applied ratably to such other Indebtedness
and to the Indebtedness evidenced by such Notes. 1.2

1                 ARTICLE BENEFIT OF AGREEMENT; ASSIGNMENTS; PARTICIPATIONS
                     -------------------------------------------------

1.1  Successors  and Assigns . The terms and  provisions  of the Loan  Documents
shall be binding  upon and inure to the benefit of the  Borrower and the Lenders
and their respective successors and assigns,  except that (a) the Borrower shall
not have the right to assign its rights or obligations under the Loan Documents,
and (b) any  assignment  by any Lender must be made in  compliance  with Section
12.3.  Notwithstanding  clause (b) of this Section,  any Lender may at any time,
without the consent of the  Borrower or the Agent,  assign all or any portion of
its  rights  under  this  Agreement  and its  Notes to a Federal  Reserve  Bank;
provided,  however,  that no such  assignment  to a Federal  Reserve  Bank shall
release the  transferor  Lender from its  obligations  hereunder.  The Agent may
treat the payee of any Note as the owner thereof for all purposes  hereof unless
and until such payee  complies  with Section  12.3 in the case of an  assignment
thereof or, in the case of any other transfer,  a written notice of the transfer
is filed  with the  Agent.  Any  assignee  or  transferee  of a Note  agrees  by
acceptance  thereof  to be bound by all the  terms  and  provisions  of the Loan
Documents.  Any request,  authority or consent of any Person, who at the time of
making  such  request or giving such  authority  or consent is the holder of any
Note,  shall be conclusive and binding on any subsequent  holder,  transferee or
assignee of such Note or of any Note or Notes issued in exchange therefor.

1.1               Participations .
1.2
                  12.2.1.  Permitted  Participants;  Effect . Any Lender may, in
the ordinary  course of its business and in accordance  with  applicable law, at
any  time  sell  to  one  or  more  banks  or  other  entities  ("Participants")
participating  interests in any Loan owing to such Lender, any Note held by such
Lender, any Commitment of such Lender or any other interest of such Lender under
the  Loan  Documents;  provided,  that,  other  than in the  case of a sale of a
participation by a Lender to an Affiliate thereof, such Lender has first offered
to sell such  participating  interests to the other  Lenders for a period of ten
(10) days for an amount equal to the face value  thereof plus all amounts  owing
in  connection  therewith.  In the  event  of  any  such  sale  by a  Lender  of
participating  interests to a Participant,  such Lender's  obligations under the
Loan  Documents  shall  remain  unchanged,   such  Lender  shall  remain  solely
responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations,
such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Note for all purposes  under the
Loan  Documents,  all amounts payable by the Borrower under this Agreement shall
be determined as if such Lender had not sold such participating  interests,  and
the Borrower and the Agent shall  continue to deal solely and directly with such
Lender in connection with such Lender's  rights and  obligations  under the Loan
Documents.

                  12.2.2.  Voting  Rights . Each  Lender  shall  retain the sole
right to  approve,  without  the  consent  of any  Participant,  any  amendment,
modification  or waiver of any  provision of the Loan  Documents  other than any
amendment,  modification  or  waiver  which  effects  any of  the  modifications
referenced in clauses (a) through (e) of Section 8.2.

                  12.2.3.  Benefit  of Setoff . The  Borrower  agrees  that each
Participant shall be deemed to have the right of setoff provided in Section 11.1
in  respect  of its  participating  interest  in  amounts  owing  under the Loan
Documents to the same extent as if the amount of its participating interest were
owing directly to it as a Lender under the Loan Documents;  provided,  that each
Lender shall retain the right of setoff provided in Section 11.1 with respect to
the amount of  participating  interests  sold to each  Participant.  The Lenders
agree to share with each Participant,  and each  Participant,  by exercising the
right of setoff provided in Section 11.1, agrees to share with each Lender,  any
amount received pursuant to the exercise of its right of setoff, such amounts to
be shared in accordance with Section 11.2 as if each Participant were a Lender.

1.1               Assignments .
1.2
                  12.3.1.  Permitted  Assignments  .  Any  Lender  may,  in  the
ordinary  course of its business and in accordance  with  applicable law, at any
time  assign to one or more banks or other  entities  ("Purchasers")  all or any
part of its rights and  obligations  under the Loan Documents;  provided,  that,
other than in the case of an  assignment  by a Lender to an  Affiliate  thereof,
such Lender has first offered to sell such assignment to the other Lenders for a
period of ten (10) days for an amount  equal to the face value  thereof plus all
amounts owing in connection therewith. Such assignment shall be substantially in
the form of  Exhibit D hereto or in such  other  form as may be agreed to by the
parties  thereto.  The  consent  of the  Agent  shall  be  required  prior to an
assignment  becoming effective with respect to a Purchaser which is not a Lender
or an Affiliate  thereof.  Such consent  shall not be  unreasonably  withheld or
delayed.

                  12.3.2.  Effect;  Effective  Date . Upon (a)  delivery  to the
Agent of a notice of assignment, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit I
to Exhibit D hereto (a  "Notice  of  Assignment"),  together  with any  consents
required  by Section  12.3.1,  and (b)  payment of a $3,500 fee to the Agent for
processing  such  assignment,  such  assignment  shall  become  effective on the
effective  date  specified  in such  Notice  of  Assignment.  On and  after  the
effective date of such assignment,  (a) such Purchaser shall for all purposes be
a Lender party to this  Agreement  and any other Loan  Document  executed by the
Lenders and shall have all the rights and obligations of a Lender under the Loan
Documents,  to the same extent as if it were an original  party hereto,  and (b)
the  transferor  Lender shall be released with respect to the  percentage of the
Aggregate  Commitment and Loans  assigned to such Purchaser  without any further
consent  or  action  by the  Borrower,  the  Lenders  or  the  Agent.  Upon  the
consummation  of any assignment to a Purchaser  pursuant to this Section 12.3.2,
the  transferor  Lender,  the  Agent and the  Borrower  shall  make  appropriate
arrangements so that replacement  Notes are issued to such transferor Lender and
new Notes or, as appropriate,  replacement  Notes, are issued to such Purchaser,
in each case in  principal  amounts  reflecting  their  Commitment,  as adjusted
pursuant to such assignment.

1.1  Dissemination  of  Information  . The  Borrower  authorizes  each Lender to
disclose to any  Participant  or  Purchaser  or any other  Person  acquiring  an
interest in the Loan Documents by operation of law (each a "Transferee") and any
prospective  Transferee  any and all  information  in such  Lender's  possession
concerning the  creditworthiness  of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.  1.2 1.3
Tax  Treatment . If any  interest in any Loan  Document  is  transferred  to any
Transferee which is organized under the laws of any jurisdiction  other than the
United  States or any State  thereof,  the  transferor  Lender  shall cause such
Transferee, concurrently with the effectiveness of such transfer, to comply with
the provisions of Section 2.24. 1.4

1                                                     ARTICLE NOTICES

1.1 Giving Notice . Except as otherwise permitted by Section 2.8 with respect to
borrowing notices,  all notices and other  communications  provided to any party
hereto under this Agreement or any other Loan Document  shall be in writing,  by
facsimile, first class U.S. mail or overnight courier and addressed or delivered
to such party at its  address set forth  below its  signature  hereto or at such
other  address  as may be  designated  by such  party in a notice  to the  other
parties.  Any notice, if mailed and properly  addressed with first class postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, shall be deemed given three (3) Business Days
after deposit in the U.S. mail; any notice,  if transmitted by facsimile,  shall
be deemed given when  transmitted;  and any notice  given by  overnight  courier
shall be deemed  given  when  received  by the  addressee.  Wherever  under this
Agreement or under any other Loan Document any  certificate  or other writing is
given by any  director,  officer or employee of the Borrower or any  Subsidiary,
such  certificate or other writing shall be delivered by such director,  officer
or employee on behalf of the Borrower or such  Subsidiary in his or her capacity
as a director, officer or employee and not in his or her individual capacity.

1.1 Change of Address . The  Borrower,  the Agent and any Lender may each change
the  address  for  service of notice upon it by a notice in writing to the other
parties hereto.
1.2
1.3
                                            [signature pages to follow]


<PAGE>


         IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  Borrower,  the  Lenders  and the Agent have
executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.



<PAGE>


                                                        -1-
LITTELFUSE, INC.

By:      

Print Name:       

Title:   

Address: 800 Northwest Highway
                  Des Plaines, Illinois  60016
                  Attn:  Chief Financial Officer

                  Telecopy:  (847) 824-3024
                  Telephone: (847) 824-1188



<PAGE>


                                                        -1-
Commitments

$17,500,000                            THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO,
                                             Individually and as Agent

                                      By: 
                                      Print Name:      

                                     Title: 
                                      Address: One First National Plaza
                                               Chicago, Illinois  60670
                                               Attn:  Karen F. Kizer

                                               Telecopy:  (312) 732-5161
                                               Telephone: (312) 732-2330




<PAGE>


$12,500,000                          BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST AND SAVINGS
                                      ASSOCIATION

                                      By: 

                                      Print Name:      

                                      Title: 

                                      Address: 231 South LaSalle Street
                                                6th Floor
                                                Chicago, Illinois 60697
                                                Attn: Jim Duff
                                                Telecopy:   (312) 974-2108
                                                Telephone: (312) 828-5964



$12,500,000                           CREDIT AGRICOLE INDOSUEZ

                                      By: 

                                      Print Name:      

                                      Title: 


                                      By: 

                                      Print Name:      

                                      Title: 

                                      Address: 55 East Monroe
                                                Suite 4700
                                                Chicago, Illinois 60603
                                                Attn: Susan Knight
                                                Telecopy:   (312) 372-2830
                                                Telephone: (312) 917-7446




<PAGE>


$12,500,000                           THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY

                                      By: 

                                     Print Name:      

                                     Title: 

                                     Address: 50 South LaSalle
                                               Floor B-2
                                               Chicago, Illinois 60675
                                               Attn: Robin Brody
                                               Telecopy:   (312) 444-7028
                                               Telephone: (312) 444-3438







$55,000,000       Aggregate Commitment


<PAGE>

<TABLE>


                                                 PRICING SCHEDULE


               ============================== --------------------- -------------------- =====================
                     APPLICABLE MARGIN           LEVEL I STATUS       LEVEL II STATUS      LEVEL III STATUS
               ============================== --------------------- -------------------- =====================
<S>                                                  <C>                   <C>                  <C>  
                     Eurocurrency Rate               .375%                 .50%                 .625%
               ============================== ===================== ==================== =====================
                       Floating Rate                   0%                   0%                    0%
               ============================== ===================== ==================== =====================

               ============================== ===================== ==================== =====================
                                                 LEVEL I STATUS       LEVEL II STATUS      LEVEL III STATUS
               ============================== ===================== ==================== =====================
               ============================== ===================== ==================== =====================
                 Applicable Commitment Fee           .125%                 .150%                 .20%
                           Rate
               ============================== ===================== ==================== =====================
</TABLE>

         For the  purposes  of this  Schedule,  the  following  terms  have  the
following meanings, subject to the final paragraph of this Schedule:

         "Financials" means the annual or quarterly financial  statements of the
Borrower delivered pursuant to Section 6.1(a) or (b).

         "Level I  Status"  exists  at any  date  if,  as of the last day of the
fiscal quarter of the Borrower  referred to in the most recent  Financials,  the
Debt Ratio is less than 1.50 to 1.00.

         "Level  II  Status"  exists  at any date if,  as of the last day of the
fiscal quarter of the Borrower  referred to in the most recent  Financials,  the
Debt Ratio is greater than or equal to 1.50 to 1.00 but less than 2.00 to 1.00.

         "Level  III  Status"  exists  at any date if, as of the last day of the
fiscal quarter of the Borrower  referred to in the most recent  Financials,  the
Debt Ratio is greater than or equal to 2.00 to 1.00.

          "Status"  means  either  Level I Status,  Level II Status or Level III
     Status.

         The  Applicable  Margin  and  Applicable  Commitment  Fee Rate shall be
determined in accordance with the foregoing table based on the Borrower's Status
as reflected  in the then most recent  Financials.  Adjustments,  if any, to the
Applicable  Margin or Applicable  Fee Rate shall be effective  five (5) Business
Days after the Agent has received  the  applicable  Financials.  If the Borrower
fails to deliver the  Financials to the Agent at the time  required  pursuant to
Section 6.1, then the Applicable Margin and Applicable Commitment Fee Rate shall
be the highest Applicable Margin and Applicable Commitment Fee Rate set forth in
the foregoing  table until five (5) days after such Financials are so delivered.
Until adjusted as provided above after the date hereof,  Level I Status shall be
deemed to exist.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4.11
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.11
<TEXT>


- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 Exhibit 4.11
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------





                                LITTELFUSE, INC.




- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------





                          DATED AS OF SEPTEMBER 1, 1998







                                   $60,000,000
                    6.16% SENIOR NOTES DUE SEPTEMBER 1, 2005




- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------



<PAGE>



ii

<TABLE>

                                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                           (Not a Part of the Agreement)


1.       PURCHASE AND SALE OF NOTES...............................................................................1
<S>  <C>                                                                                                         <C>
     1.1.     Authorization of Notes..............................................................................1
     1.2.     The Closing.........................................................................................1
     1.3.     Purchase for Investment; ERISA......................................................................2
     1.4.     Source of Funds.....................................................................................2
     1.5.     Failure to Tender, Failure of Conditions............................................................4
     1.6.     Expenses............................................................................................4

2.       WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS...........................................................................5
     2.1.     Nature of Business..................................................................................5
     2.2.     Financial Statements; Debt; Material Adverse Change.................................................5
     2.3.     Subsidiaries and Affiliates.........................................................................6
     2.4.     Title to Properties; Patents, Trademarks, etc.......................................................6
     2.5.     Taxes...............................................................................................7
     2.6.     Pending Litigation..................................................................................7
     2.7.     Full Disclosure.....................................................................................8
     2.8.     Corporate Organization and Authority................................................................8
     2.9.     Charter Instruments, Other Agreements...............................................................8
     2.10.    Restrictions on Company and Subsidiaries............................................................9
     2.11.    Compliance with Law.................................................................................9
     2.12.    ERISA, etc..........................................................................................9
     2.13.    Environmental Compliance...........................................................................10
     2.14.    Sale of Notes is Legal and Authorized; Obligations are Enforceable.................................11
     2.15.    Governmental Consent to Sale of Notes..............................................................12
     2.16.    Private Offering of Notes..........................................................................12
     2.17.    No Defaults; Transactions Prior to Closing Date....................................................12
     2.18.    Use of Proceeds of Notes...........................................................................13

3.       CLOSING CONDITIONS......................................................................................13
     3.1.     Opinions of Counsel................................................................................14
     3.2.     Warranties and Representations True................................................................14
     3.3.     Officers'Certificates..............................................................................14
     3.4.     Legality...........................................................................................14
     3.5.     Private Placement Number...........................................................................14
     3.6.     Expenses...........................................................................................14
     3.7.     Other Purchasers...................................................................................15
     3.8.     Compliance with this Agreement.....................................................................15
     3.9.     Proceedings Satisfactory...........................................................................15

4.       PAYMENTS................................................................................................15
     4.1.     Mandatory Principal Amortization Payments..........................................................15
     4.2.     Optional Prepayments...............................................................................15
     4.3.     Partial Prepayment Pro Rata........................................................................17
     4.4.     Notation of Notes on Prepayment....................................................................17
     4.5.     No Other Optional Prepayments......................................................................17

5.       REGISTRATION; EXCHANGE; SUBSTITUTION OF NOTES...........................................................17
     5.1.     Registration of Notes..............................................................................17
     5.2.     Exchange of Notes..................................................................................18
     5.3.     Replacement of Notes...............................................................................19
     5.4.     Issuance Taxes.....................................................................................19

6.       COVENANTS...............................................................................................19
     6.1.     Net Worth..........................................................................................19
     6.2.     Fixed Charges Coverage.............................................................................20
     6.3.     Restricted Payments................................................................................20
     6.4.     Funded Debt; Subsidiary Debt.......................................................................21
     6.5.     Transfers of Property; Subsidiary Stock............................................................22
     6.6.     Merger, Consolidation, etc.........................................................................24
     6.7.     Liens..............................................................................................25
     6.8.     Restricted Investments.............................................................................27
     6.9.     Transactions with Affiliates.......................................................................27
     6.10.    Nature of Business.................................................................................28
     6.11.    Payment of Taxes and Claims........................................................................28
     6.12.    Maintenance of Properties; Corporate Existence; etc................................................28
     6.13.    Payment of Notes and Maintenance of Office.........................................................29
     6.14.    ERISA, etc.........................................................................................30
     6.15.    Pro-Rata Offers....................................................................................31
     6.16.    Private Offering...................................................................................31

7.       INFORMATION AS TO COMPANY...............................................................................31
     7.1.     Financial and Business Information.................................................................31
     7.2.     Officers'Certificates..............................................................................35
     7.3.     Accountants'Certificates...........................................................................36
     7.4.     Inspection.........................................................................................36

8.       EVENTS OF DEFAULT.......................................................................................36
     8.1.     Nature of Events...................................................................................36
     8.2.     Default Remedies...................................................................................38
     8.3.     Annulment of Acceleration of Notes.................................................................40

9.       INTERPRETATION OF THIS AGREEMENT........................................................................41
     9.1.     Terms Defined......................................................................................41
     9.2.     GAAP...............................................................................................55
     9.3.     Directly or Indirectly.............................................................................55
     9.4.     Section Headings and Table of Contents and Construction............................................56
     9.5.     Governing Law......................................................................................56

10.      MISCELLANEOUS...........................................................................................56
     10.1.    Communications.....................................................................................56
     10.2.    Reproduction of Documents..........................................................................57
     10.3.    Survival...........................................................................................58
     10.4.    Successors and Assigns.............................................................................58
     10.5.    Amendment and Waiver...............................................................................58
     10.6.    Payments on Notes..................................................................................60
     10.7.    Entire Agreement; Severability.....................................................................60
     10.8.    Duplicate Originals, Execution in Counterpart......................................................61

Annex 1  -........Information as to Purchasers
Annex 2  -........Payment Instructions at Closing
Annex 3  -........Information as to Company
Exhibit A.........-        Form of 6.16% Senior Note due September 1, 2005
Exhibit B1........-        Form of Company's Counsel Closing Opinion
Exhibit B2........-        Form of Purchaser's Special Counsel Closing Opinion
Exhibit C.........-        Form of Officers' Certificate
Exhibit D.........-        Form of Secretary's Certificate


</TABLE>

<PAGE>



                                                       -61-

                                Littelfuse, Inc.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             NOTE PURCHASE AGREEMENT

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                   $60,000,000
                    6.16% SENIOR NOTES DUE SEPTEMBER 1, 2005

                          Dated as of September 1, 1998


TO EACH OF THE PURCHASERS
LISTED IN THE ATTACHED ANNEX 1


Ladies and Gentlemen:

         LITTELFUSE,  INC., a Delaware corporation (together with its successors
and assigns, the "Company"), hereby agrees with you as follows:

1.       PURCHASE AND SALE OF NOTES

         1.1......Authorization of Notes.

         The Company  will  authorize  the  issuance  and sale of Sixty  Million
Dollars  ($60,000,000) in the aggregate  principal amount of its six and sixteen
one-hundredths  percent (6.16%) Senior Notes due September 1, 2005 (the "Notes,"
such term to include each Note  delivered  from time to time in accordance  with
the Note Purchase  Agreement).  The Notes shall be  substantially in the form of
Exhibit A and shall have the terms as herein and therein provided.

         1.2......The Closing.

                  (a) Purchase and Sale of Notes.  The Company  hereby agrees to
         sell to you and you  hereby  agree to  purchase  from the  Company,  in
         accordance with the provisions hereof,  the aggregate  principal amount
         of Notes set forth next to your name on Annex 1 at one hundred  percent
         (100%) of the principal amount thereof.  Your obligation  hereunder and
         the  obligations  of the other  Purchasers  are  several  and not joint
         obligations and you shall have no obligation hereunder and no liability
         to any  person  for the  performance  or  non-performance  by any other
         Purchaser hereunder.

                  (b) The Closing.  The closing (the "Closing") of the Company's
         sale of Notes will be held on September 1, 1998 (the "Closing Date") at
         10:00  a.m.,  local time,  at the office of Gardner,  Carton & Douglas,
         3400 Quaker Tower, 321 North Clark Street, Chicago,  Illinois 60610. At
         the  Closing,  the  Company  will  deliver to you one or more Notes (as
         indicated next to your name on Annex 1), in the denominations indicated
         on Annex 1, in the aggregate  principal amount of your purchase,  dated
         the Closing Date and payable to you or payable as indicated on Annex 1,
         against payment by federal funds wire transfer in immediately available
         funds of the  purchase  price  thereof,  as  directed by the Company on
         Annex 2.

         1.3......Purchase for Investment; ERISA.

                  (a) Purchase for Investment. You represent to the Company that
         you are  purchasing  the Notes  listed on Annex 1 next to your name for
         your own  account  for  investment  and with no  present  intention  of
         distributing  the Notes or any part thereof,  but without  prejudice to
         your right at all times to:

                           (i) sell or  otherwise  dispose of all or any part of
                  the  Notes  under a  registration  statement  filed  under the
                  Securities   Act,  or  in  a   transaction   exempt  from  the
                  registration requirements of the Securities Act; and

                           (ii) have control over the disposition of all of your
                  assets  to the  fullest  extent  required  by  any  applicable
                  insurance law.

         It is understood that, in making the representations set out in Section
         2.14(a)  and  Section  2.15,  the  Company  is  relying,  to the extent
         applicable,  upon  your  representation  in the  immediately  preceding
         sentence.

         1.4......Source of Funds.

          .........You  represent that at least one of the following  statements
     is an accurate representation as to each source of funds (a "Source") to be
     used by you to pay the  purchase  price of the Notes to be purchased by you
     hereunder:

                  (a) if you are an  insurance  company,  the  Source  does  not
         include assets allocated to any separate  account  maintained by you in
         which  any  employee  benefit  plan  (or  its  related  trust)  has any
         interest,  other than a separate  account that is maintained  solely in
         connection  with your fixed  contractual  obligations  under  which the
         amounts  payable,  or credited,  to such plan and to any participant or
         beneficiary of such plan  (including any annuitant) are not affected in
         any manner by the investment performance of the separate account; or

                  (b) the  Source  is either  (i) an  insurance  company  pooled
         separate  account,   within  the  meaning  of  Prohibited   Transaction
         Exemption  ("PTE")  90-1  (issued  January  29,  1990),  or (ii) a bank
         collective investment fund, within the meaning of the PTE 91-38 (issued
         July 12,  1991) and,  except as you have  disclosed  to the  Company in
         writing  pursuant to this  paragraph  (b), no employee  benefit plan or
         group of plans maintained by the same employer or employee organization
         beneficially  owns more than 10% of all assets allocated to such pooled
         separate account or collective investment fund; or

                  (c) the  Source  constitutes  assets of an  "investment  fund"
         (within  the  meaning  of Part V of the QPAM  Exemption)  managed  by a
         "qualified professional asset manager" or "QPAM" (within the meaning of
         Part V of the QPAM  Exemption),  no employee benefit plan's assets that
         are included in such investment  fund, when combined with the assets of
         all other employee benefit plans  established or maintained by the same
         employer or by an affiliate  (within the meaning of Section  V(c)(1) of
         the  QPAM   Exemption)  of  such  employer  or  by  the  same  employee
         organization  and managed by such QPAM,  exceed 20% of the total client
         assets managed by such QPAM, the conditions of Part I(c) and (g) of the
         QPAM Exemption are satisfied, neither the QPAM nor a person controlling
         or  controlled  by the QPAM  (applying  the  definition of "control" in
         Section V(e) of the QPAM  Exemption)  owns a 5% or more interest in the
         Company  and (i) the  identity  of such  QPAM and (ii) the names of all
         employee  benefit  plans whose assets are  included in such  investment
         fund have been  disclosed  to the  Company in writing  pursuant to this
         paragraph (c); or

                  (d)      the Source is a governmental plan; or

                  (e) the Source is one or more  employee  benefit  plans,  or a
         separate  account  or  trust  fund  comprised  of one or more  employee
         benefit  plans,  each of which has been  identified  to the  Company in
         writing pursuant to this paragraph (e); or

                  (f) the Source does not include assets of any employee benefit
         plan, other than a plan exempt from the coverage of ERISA; or

                  (g) if you are an  insurance  company and the Source  includes
         assets of your general  account,  the  acquisition  of the Notes by the
         Purchasers is exempt under PTE 95-60 (issued July 12, 1995); or

                  (h) if you are an insurance company,  the source of funds from
         which  your  investment  is to  be  made  is a  general  account  of an
         insurance  company,  and the amount of the reserves and liabilities for
         the  general  account  contract(s)  held by or on behalf of any Benefit
         Plan (as defined by the annual  statement for life insurance  companies
         approved  by the  National  Association  of  Insurance  approved by the
         National  Association  of  Insurance  Commissioners  (the "NAIC  Annual
         Statement"))  together with the amount of the reserves and  liabilities
         for the general account  contract(s)  held by or on behalf of any other
         Benefit Plans maintained by the same employer (or affiliate  thereof as
         defined in Department of Labor Prohibited Transaction Exemption ("PTE")
         95-60) or by the same  employee  organization  (as  defined by the NAIC
         Annual  Statement) in he general account do not exceed 10% of the total
         reserves and liabilities of the general account  (exclusive of separate
         account  liabilities)  plus  surplus  as set  forth in the NAIC  Annual
         Statement  filed with the state of  domicile of the  insurance  company
         (for  purposes of the  percentage  limitation  in this clause (h),  the
         amount of reserves and liabilities for the general account  contract(s)
         held by or on behalf of a plan shall be determined before reduction for
         credits on account of any reinsurance ceded on a coinsurance basis).

As used in this Section 1.4, the terms  "employee  benefit plan",  "governmental
plan",  "party in interest" and  "separate  account"  shall have the  respective
meanings assigned to such terms in Section 3 of ERISA.

         1.5.     Failure to Tender, Failure of Conditions.

         If at the Closing  the  Company  fails to tender to you the Notes to be
purchased  by you  thereat,  or if the  conditions  specified in Section 3 to be
fulfilled at the Closing have not been fulfilled,  you may thereupon elect to be
relieved of all further obligations hereunder. Nothing in this Section 1.4 shall
operate to relieve the Company from any of its obligations hereunder or to waive
any of your rights against the Company.

         1.6.     Expenses.

                  (a) Generally.  Whether or not the Notes are sold, the Company
         will  promptly  (and in any event within  thirty (30) days of receiving
         any  statement or invoice  therefor)  pay all fees,  expenses and costs
         relating hereto, including, but not limited to:

               (i)  the cost of reproducing  this  Agreement,  the Notes and the
                    other documents delivered in connection with the Closing;

               (ii) the fees and  disbursements of your special counsel incurred
                    in connection herewith;

               (iii)the cost of  delivering  to your home  office  or  custodian
                    bank, insured to your  satisfaction,  the Notes purchased by
                    you at the Closing; and

               (iv) the fees, expenses and costs incurred in complying with each
                    of the conditions to closing set forth in Section 3.

                  (b) Counsel. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
         it is agreed and understood  that the Company will pay, at the Closing,
         the  statement  for  fees and  disbursements  of your  special  counsel
         presented  at the Closing and the Company will also pay upon receipt of
         any  statement   therefor  each  additional   statement  for  fees  and
         disbursements  of your special  counsel  rendered  after the Closing in
         connection with the issuance of the Notes or the matters referred to in
         Section 1.5(a).

                  (c)  Survival.  The  obligations  of the  Company  under  this
         Section 1.5,  Section 5.4,  Section  8.2(e) and Section  10.5(d)  shall
         survive the payment of the Notes and the termination hereof.

2.       WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS

         To induce you to enter into this  Agreement  and to purchase  the Notes
listed on Annex 1 next to your name, the Company warrants and represents,  as of
the Closing Date, as follows:

         2.1.     Nature of Business.

         The Confidential  Offering Memorandum,  prepared by the Placement Agent
(together with all exhibits and annexes thereto,  the "Offering  Memorandum") (a
copy of which  previously  has been delivered to you),  correctly  describes the
general  nature of the business and principal  Properties of the Company and the
Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date.

         2.2.     Financial Statements; Debt; Material Adverse Change.

                  (a)  Financial  Statements.  The Company has provided you with
         its  financial  statements  described  in Part  2.2(a) of Annex 3. Such
         financial  statements  have been prepared in accordance  with generally
         accepted  accounting  principles   consistently  applied,  and  present
         fairly, in all material respects,  the consolidated  financial position
         of the  Company  and its  consolidated  subsidiaries  as of such  dates
         (reflecting  "fresh-start  reporting"  at  December  27,  1991) and the
         results of their operations and cash flows for such periods.

                  (b) Debt. Part 2.2(b) of Annex 3 lists all Debt of the Company
         and the Subsidiaries as of the Closing Date, and provides the following
         information with respect to each item of such Debt:

                           (i)      the type thereof,

                           (ii)     the holder thereof,

                           (iii)    the outstanding amount,

                           (iv)  the  current  portion,  if  any,  and  (v)  the
                           collateral securing such Debt, if any.

                  (c) Material  Adverse Change.  Since December 31, 1997,  there
         has been no change in the business,  prospects,  profits, Properties or
         condition  (financial  or  otherwise)  of  the  Company  or  any of the
         Subsidiaries except changes in the ordinary course of business that, in
         the aggregate for all such changes, could not reasonably be expected to
         have a Material Adverse Effect.

         2.3.     Subsidiaries and Affiliates.

         Part 2.3 of Annex 3 sets forth:

                  (a) the name of each of the Subsidiaries,  its jurisdiction of
         incorporation  and the  percentage  of its  Voting  Stock  owned by the
         Company and each other Subsidiary, and

                  (b) to the extent that such  information  is not  disclosed in
         the Offering  Memorandum,  a description of the Affiliates  (other than
         individuals) and the nature of their affiliation.

Each of the Company and the Subsidiaries has good and marketable title to all of
the shares it purports to own of the stock of each Subsidiary, free and clear in
each case of any Lien.  All such shares have been duly issued and are fully paid
and nonassessable.

         2.4.     Title to Properties; Patents, Trademarks, etc.

                  (a)  Each of the  Company  and the  Subsidiaries  has good and
         marketable title to all of the real Property,  and good title to all of
         the other Property, reflected in the most recent statement of financial
         condition  referred  to in Part  2.2(a) of Annex 3  (except  as sold or
         otherwise  disposed of in the ordinary course of business),  except for
         such failures to have such good and marketable  title as are immaterial
         to such  financial  statements  and that, in the aggregate for all such
         failures,  could not reasonably be expected to have a Material  Adverse
         Effect.  All such  Property is free from Liens not permitted by Section
         6.7.

                  (b) Each of the Company and the Subsidiaries  owns,  possesses
         or has the right to use all of the patents, trademarks,  service marks,
         trade names,  copyrights and licenses, and rights with respect thereto,
         necessary for the present and currently  planned  future conduct of its
         business,  without any known conflict with the rights of others, except
         for such failures to own,  possess,  or have the right to use, that, in
         the aggregate for all such  failures,  could not reasonably be expected
         to have a Material Adverse Effect.

         2.5.     Taxes.

                  (a)      Returns Filed; Taxes Paid.

                           (i) All tax  returns  required to be filed by each of
                  the  Company  and each  Subsidiary  and any other  Person with
                  which  the  Company  or any  Subsidiary  files or has  filed a
                  consolidated  return in any jurisdiction  have been filed on a
                  timely  basis,  and all  taxes,  assessments,  fees and  other
                  governmental charges upon each of the Company, such Subsidiary
                  and  any  such  Person,  and  upon  any  of  their  respective
                  Properties,  income or  franchises,  that are due and  payable
                  have  been  paid,  except  for such tax  returns  and such tax
                  payments  that could not,  in the  aggregate  for all such tax
                  returns  and  payments,  reasonably  be  expected  to  have  a
                  Material Adverse Effect.

                           (ii)  All  liabilities  of each of the  Company,  the
                  Subsidiaries   and  the  other  Persons  referred  to  in  the
                  preceding clause (i) with respect to federal income taxes have
                  been  finally  determined  except  for the  fiscal  years 1994
                  through 1997,  the only years not closed by the  completion of
                  an audit or the expiration of the statute of limitations.

                  (b)      Book Provisions Adequate.

                           (i) The amount of the liability  for taxes  reflected
                  in each of the statements of financial  condition  referred to
                  in  Part  2.2(a)  of  Annex  3 is in  each  case  an  adequate
                  provision  for  taxes as of the  dates of such  statements  of
                  financial  condition  (including,   without  limitation,   any
                  payment due pursuant to any tax sharing  agreement)  as are or
                  may become  payable by any one or more of the  Company and the
                  other Persons  consolidated with the Company in such financial
                  statements in respect of all tax periods ending on or prior to
                  such dates.

                           (ii)  The  Company  does  not  know  of any  proposed
                  additional tax  assessment  against it or any such Person that
                  is not  reflected  in full in the  most  recent  statement  of
                  financial condition referred to in Part 2.2(a) of Annex 3.

         2.6.     Pending Litigation.

                  (a)  There  are  no  proceedings,  actions  or  investigations
         pending or, to the  knowledge  of the  Company,  threatened  against or
         affecting  the  Company  or any  Subsidiary  in any court or before any
         Governmental  Authority or  arbitration  board or tribunal that, in the
         aggregate for all such proceedings,  actions and investigations,  could
         reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

                  (b) Neither the Company nor any  Subsidiary is in default with
         respect  to any  judgment,  order,  writ,  injunction  or decree of any
         court,  Governmental Authority,  arbitration board or tribunal that, in
         the aggregate for all such  defaults,  could  reasonably be expected to
         have a Material Adverse Effect.

         2.7.     Full Disclosure.

         The financial  statements referred to in Part 2.2(a) of Annex 3 do not,
nor does this  Agreement,  the  Offering  Memorandum  or any  written  statement
furnished  by or on  behalf  of  the  Company  to  you in  connection  with  the
negotiation  or the  closing  of the  sale  of the  Notes,  contain  any  untrue
statement  of a material  fact or omit a  material  fact  necessary  to make the
statements  contained  therein and herein not misleading.  There is no fact that
the Company has not  disclosed  to you in writing that has had or, so far as the
Company  can now  reasonably  foresee,  could  reasonably  be expected to have a
Material Adverse Effect.

         2.8.     Corporate Organization and Authority.

         Each of the Company and the Subsidiaries:

               (a)  is a corporation duly incorporated,  validly existing and in
                    good  standing  under  the  laws  of  its   jurisdiction  of
                    incorporation;

               (b)  has all legal and  corporate  power and authority to own and
                    operate its  Properties  and to carry on its business as now
                    conducted and as presently proposed to be conducted;

               (c)  has all  licenses,  certificates,  permits,  franchises  and
                    other  governmental  authorizations  necessary  to  own  and
                    operate its  Properties  and to carry on its business as now
                    conducted and as presently proposed to be conducted,  except
                    where  the  failure  to have  such  licenses,  certificates,
                    permits,  franchises and other governmental  authorizations,
                    in the aggregate for all such failures, could not reasonably
                    be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and

               (d)  has  duly  qualified  or  has  been  duly  licensed,  and is
                    authorized  to do  business  and is in good  standing,  as a
                    foreign corporation,  in each state (each of which states is
                    listed in Part 2.8(d) of Annex 3) where the failure to be so
                    qualified or licensed and  authorized  and in good standing,
                    in the aggregate for all such failures,  could reasonably be
                    expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

         2.9.     Charter Instruments, Other Agreements.

         Neither the Company nor any  Subsidiary  is in violation in any respect
of any term of any  charter  instrument  or bylaw.  Neither  the Company nor any
Subsidiary  is in violation in any respect of any term in any agreement or other
instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its Properties may be
bound except for such failures  that,  in the  aggregate for all such  failures,
could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

         2.10.    Restrictions on Company and Subsidiaries.

         Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary:

                  (a) is a party to any contract or agreement, or subject to any
         charter or other corporate  restriction  that, in the aggregate for all
         such contracts,  agreements, charters and corporate restrictions, could
         reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;

                  (b) is a party to any contract or agreement that restricts the
         right or ability of such  corporation  to incur  Debt,  other than this
         Agreement and the agreements listed in Part 2.10(b) of Annex 3, none of
         which  restricts the issuance and sale of the Notes or the  performance
         of the  Company  hereunder  or under the Notes,  and true,  correct and
         complete copies of each of which have been provided to you; or

                  (c) has agreed or  consented  to cause or permit in the future
         (upon the happening of a contingency or otherwise) any of its Property,
         whether now owned or  hereafter  acquired,  to be subject to a Lien not
         permitted by Section 6.7.

         2.11.    Compliance with Law.

         Neither the  Company nor any  Subsidiary  is in  violation  of any law,
ordinance,  governmental  rule or  regulation  to  which  it is  subject,  which
violations,  in the aggregate,  could  reasonably be expected to have a Material
Adverse Effect.

         2.12.    ERISA, etc.

                  (a)  Prohibited  Transactions.  Neither the  execution of this
         Agreement  nor the  purchase  of the  Notes  by you will  constitute  a
         "prohibited transaction" (as defined in section 406 of ERISA or section
         4975 of the IRC).  The  representation  by the Company in the preceding
         sentence  is made in reliance  upon and subject to the  accuracy of the
         representations in Section 1.4 hereof as to the source of funds used by
         you.

                  (b)      Pension Plans.

                           (i) Compliance with ERISA.  The Company and the ERISA
                  Affiliates  are in  compliance  with  ERISA,  except  for such
                  failures  to  comply  that,  in the  aggregate  for  all  such
                  failures,  could not reasonably be expected to have a Material
                  Adverse Effect.

                           (ii)  Funding   Status.   No   "accumulated   funding
                  deficiency"  (as  defined in section  302 of ERISA and section
                  412 of the IRC), whether or not waived, exists with respect to
                  any Pension Plan.

                           (iii) PBGC.  No  liability to the PBGC has been or is
                  expected to be incurred by the Company or any ERISA  Affiliate
                  with respect to any Pension Plan that,  individually or in the
                  aggregate,  could  reasonably  be  expected to have a Material
                  Adverse  Effect.  No  circumstance   exists  that  constitutes
                  grounds  under  section  4042 of ERISA  entitling  the PBGC to
                  institute  proceedings  to terminate,  or appoint a trustee to
                  administer,  any Pension Plan or trust created thereunder, nor
                  has the PBGC instituted any such proceeding.

                           (iv) Multiemployer Plans. Neither the Company nor any
                  ERISA Affiliate has incurred or presently expects to incur any
                  withdrawal  liability  under Title IV of ERISA with respect to
                  any Multiemployer Plan. There have been no "reportable events"
                  (as  defined in  section  4043 of ERISA)  with  respect to any
                  Multiemployer  Plan that could  result in the  termination  of
                  such  Multiemployer  Plan and give rise to a liability  of the
                  Company or any ERISA Affiliate in respect thereof.

                  (c) Foreign Pension Plans. All Foreign Pension Plans have been
         established, operated, administered and maintained in compliance in all
         material  respects  with all laws,  regulations  and orders  applicable
         thereto.  Except where it would not have, either individually or in the
         aggregate,  a Material Adverse Effect, all premiums,  contributions and
         any other amounts required by applicable Foreign Pension Plan documents
         or applicable laws, regulations and orders have been paid or accrued as
         required.

                    (d)  Information   in  Annex.   Part   2.12(d)  of  Annex  3
                         identifies each:

                           (i)      ERISA Affiliate;

                           (ii)     Pension Plan;

                           (iii)    Multiemployer Plan; and

                           (iv)     Foreign Pension Plan.

         2.13.    Environmental Compliance.

                  (a) Compliance. Each of the Company and the Subsidiaries is in
         compliance  with all  Environmental  Protection  Laws in effect in each
         jurisdiction  where it is  presently  doing  business  and in which the
         failure so to comply,  in the  aggregate for all such  failures,  could
         reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

                  (b)  Liability.  Neither  the Company  nor any  Subsidiary  is
         subject to any liability under any Environmental  Protection Laws that,
         in the aggregate for all such liabilities, could reasonably be expected
         to have a Material Adverse Effect.

                  (c)  Notices.  Neither  the  Company  nor any  Subsidiary  has
received any:

                           (i) notice from any  Governmental  Authority by which
                  any of its present or  previously-owned  or leased  Properties
                  has  been  identified  in  any  manner  by  any   Governmental
                  Authority as a hazardous  substance  disposal or removal site,
                  "Super Fund" clean-up site or candidate for removal or closure
                  pursuant to any Environmental Protection Law;

                           (ii)  notice  of  any  Lien   arising   under  or  in
                  connection  with  any  Environmental  Protection  Law that has
                  attached to any revenues of, or to, any of its owned or leased
                  Properties; or

                           (iii) any  communication,  written or oral,  from any
                  Governmental  Authority  concerning  action or omission by the
                  Company or such Subsidiary in connection with its ownership or
                  leasing  of  any  Property  resulting  in the  release  of any
                  hazardous   substance   resulting  in  any  violation  of  any
                  Environmental Protection Law;

         where the effect of which,  in the  aggregate  for all such notices and
         communications, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse
         Effect.

          2.14.  Sale  of  Notes  is  Legal  and  Authorized;   Obligations  are
          Enforceable.

                  (a)  Sale  of  Notes  is  Legal  and  Authorized.  Each of the
         issuance,  sale and delivery of the Notes by the Company, the execution
         and delivery  hereof by the Company and  compliance by the Company with
         all of the provisions hereof and of the Notes;

                    (i)  is within the corporate powers of the Company; and

                           (ii) is legal and does not conflict  with,  result in
                  any breach of any of the provisions  of,  constitute a default
                  under, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any Property
                  of the Company or any Subsidiary  under the provisions of, any
                  agreement,  charter  instrument,  bylaw or other instrument to
                  which it is a party  or by  which it or any of its  Properties
                  may be bound.

                  (b)  Obligations are  Enforceable.  Each of this Agreement and
         the Notes has been duly authorized by all necessary  action on the part
         of the  Company,  has been  executed and  delivered by duly  authorized
         officers  of the  Company and  constitutes  a legal,  valid and binding
         obligation of the Company,  enforceable  in accordance  with its terms,
         except that the enforceability hereof and of the Notes may be:

                           (i) limited by applicable bankruptcy, reorganization,
                  arrangement,  insolvency,  moratorium  or other  similar  laws
                  affecting the  enforceability  of creditors' rights generally;
                  and

                           (ii)  subject  to  the   availability   of  equitable
                              remedies.

         2.15.    Governmental Consent to Sale of Notes.

         Neither the nature of the Company or any Subsidiary, or of any of their
respective businesses or Properties, nor any relationship between the Company or
any Subsidiary and any other Person, nor any circumstance in connection with the
offer, issuance, sale or delivery of the Notes and the execution and delivery of
this Agreement,  is such as to require a consent,  approval or authorization of,
or filing, registration or qualification with, any Governmental Authority on the
part of the  Company  as a  condition  to the  execution  and  delivery  of this
Agreement  or the offer,  issuance,  sale or delivery of the Notes.  Neither the
Company nor any Subsidiary is subject to regulation under the Investment Company
Act of 1940,  as amended,  the Public  Utility  Holding  Company Act of 1935, as
amended,  the Interstate  Commerce Act, as amended, or the Federal Power Act, as
amended.

         2.16.    Private Offering of Notes.

         Neither the Company nor the Placement Agent (the only Person authorized
or employed by the Company as agent,  broker,  dealer or otherwise in connection
with the  offering or sale of the Notes or any similar  Security of the Company,
other than employees of the Company) has offered any of the Notes or any similar
Security  of the  Company  for sale to, or  solicited  offers to buy any thereof
from,  or otherwise  approached  or negotiated  with respect  thereto with,  any
prospective  purchaser,  other than the Purchasers and not more than thirty nine
(39) other institutional investors, each of whom was offered all or a portion of
the Notes at private sale for investment.

         2.17.    No Defaults; Transactions Prior to Closing Date.

                  (a) No event has occurred and no condition  exists that,  upon
         the  execution  and delivery of this  Agreement and the issuance of the
         Notes,  would constitute a Default or an Event of Default.  Neither the
         Company  nor any  Subsidiary  is in default and no waiver of default is
         currently in effect, in the payment of any principal or interest on any
         Indebtedness  of  the  Company  or  such  Subsidiary  and no  event  or
         condition exists with respect to any Indebtedness of the Company or any
         Subsidiary that would permit (or that with notice or the lapse of time,
         or both,  would permit) one or more Persons to cause such to become due
         and  payable  before  its  stated  maturity  or  before  its  regularly
         scheduled dates of payment.

                  (b) The Company has not entered into any transaction since the
         date of the most recent statement of financial condition referred to in
         Part 2.2(a) of Annex 3 that would have been  prohibited  by Section 6.1
         through Section 6.9,  inclusive,  had such Sections  applied since such
         date.

         2.18.    Use of Proceeds of Notes.

                  (a) Use of Proceeds.  The Company will apply the proceeds from
         the sale of the Notes in the manner  specified in Part 2.18(a) of Annex
         3.

                  (b) Margin Securities.  None of the transactions  contemplated
         herein and in the Notes (including,  without limitation, the use of the
         proceeds  from the sale of the Notes)  violates,  will  violate or will
         result  in a  violation  of  section  7 of  the  Exchange  Act  or  any
         regulations  issued pursuant thereto,  including,  without  limitation,
         Regulations T, U and X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
         System,  12 C.F.R.,  Chapter II. The  obligations  of the Company under
         this  Agreement  and the  Notes  are not and  will not be  directly  or
         indirectly secured by any Margin Security,  and no Notes are being sold
         on the basis of any such collateral.

                  (c)  Absence of Foreign or Enemy  Status.  Neither the Company
         nor any  Subsidiary  is an "enemy" or an "ally of the enemy" within the
         meaning of section 2 of the Trading with the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C.  App.
         ss.ss. 1 et seq.),  as amended.  Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary
         is in  violation  of, and neither the issuance and sale of the Notes by
         the Company nor its use of the proceeds thereof as contemplated by this
         Agreement will violate,  the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, or
         any executive  orders,  proclamations  or regulations  issued  pursuant
         thereto, including, without limitation, regulations administered by the
         Office of Foreign Asset  Control of the  Department of the Treasury (31
         C.F.R., Subtitle B, Chapter V).

3.       CLOSING CONDITIONS

         Your  obligation  to purchase  and pay for the Notes to be delivered to
you at the Closing is subject to the following conditions precedent:

         3.1.     Opinions of Counsel.

         You shall have received from

                  (a)      Chapman and Cutler, counsel for the Company, and

                  (b)      Gardner, Carton & Douglas, your special counsel,

closing  opinions,  each  dated as of the  Closing  Date,  substantially  in the
respective  forms set forth in  Exhibit  B1 and  Exhibit B2 and as to such other
matters  as you may  reasonably  request.  This  Section  3.1  shall  constitute
direction by the Company to such counsel  named in the  foregoing  clause (a) to
deliver such closing opinion to you.

         3.2.     Warranties and Representations True.

         The warranties and representations contained in Section 2 shall be true
on the Closing Date with the same effect as though made on and as of that date.

         3.3.     Officers' Certificates.

         You shall have received:

                    (a)  a certificate  dated the Closing Date and signed by two
                         Senior  Officers,  substantially in the form of Exhibit
                         C; and

                    (b)  a certificate  dated the Closing Date and signed by the
                         Secretary  or an  Assistant  Secretary  of the Company,
                         substantially in the form of Exhibit D.

         3.4.     Legality.

         The Notes shall on the Closing Date qualify as a legal  investment  for
you under  applicable  insurance law (without regard to any "basket" or "leeway"
provisions),  and such acquisition shall not subject you to any penalty or other
onerous  condition in or pursuant to any such law or  regulation,  and you shall
have  received  such  evidence  as  you  may  reasonably  request  to  establish
compliance with this condition.

         3.5.     Private Placement Number.

         The  Company  shall have  obtained  or caused to be  obtained a private
placement  number  for the Notes  from the CUSIP  Service  Bureau of  Standard &
Poor's  Corporation  and you shall have been informed of such private  placement
number.

         3.6.     Expenses.

         All fees and  disbursements  required  to be paid  pursuant  to Section
1.6(b) shall have been paid in full.

         3.7.     Other Purchasers.

         None of the other  Purchasers  shall have failed to execute and deliver
this  Agreement  or to accept  delivery  of or make  payment for the Notes to be
purchased by it on the Closing Date.

         3.8.     Compliance with this Agreement.

         Each of the  Company  and the  Subsidiaries  shall have  performed  and
complied with all agreements and conditions  contained  herein that are required
to be performed or complied with by the Company and the Subsidiaries on or prior
to the Closing Date, and such  performance and compliance shall remain in effect
on the Closing Date.

         3.9.     Proceedings Satisfactory.

         All  proceedings  taken in connection with the issuance and sale of the
Notes and all documents and papers relating thereto shall be satisfactory to you
and your special  counsel.  You and your  special  counsel  shall have  received
copies of such  documents  and papers as you or they may  reasonably  request in
connection  therewith  or in  connection  with your  special  counsel's  closing
opinion, all in form and substance satisfactory to you and your special counsel.

4.       PAYMENTS

         4.1.     Mandatory Principal Amortization Payments.

         The Company  shall pay,  and there shall  become due and  payable,  the
following  principal  amounts of the Notes on September 1 in each year beginning
on  September  1, 1999 and ending on  September  1,  2005,  inclusive  (each,  a
"Mandatory Principal Amortization Payment"):

         September 1, 1999                          $5,000,000
         September 1, 2000                          $5,000,000
         September 1, 2001                          $10,000,000
         September 1, 2002                          $10,000,000
         September 1, 2003                          $10,000,000
         September 1, 2004                          $10,000,000
         September 1, 2005                          $10,000,000 (final maturity)

         Each Mandatory Principal  Amortization  Payment shall be at one hundred
percent (100%) of the principal  amount payable,  together with interest accrued
thereon to the date of payment.  Without limitation of the foregoing, all of the
principal  of the Notes  remaining  outstanding  on  September 1, 2005 (if any),
together  with  interest  accrued  thereon,  shall  become  due and  payable  on
September 1, 2005.

         4.2.     Optional Prepayments.

                    (a)  Optional Prepayments. The Company may at any time after
                         the  Closing  Date prepay the  principal  amount of the
                         Notes in part,  in  integral  multiples  of One Million
                         Dollars  ($1,000,000),   or  in  whole,  in  each  case
                         together  with:  (i) an amount equal to the  Make-Whole
                         Amount at such time in respect of the principal  amount
                         of the Notes being so prepaid; and

                           (ii)  interest  on such  principal  amount then being
                  prepaid accrued to the prepayment date.

                  (b)  Notice of  Optional  Prepayment.  The  Company  will give
         notice of any optional  prepayment of the Notes to each holder of Notes
         not less than  thirty (30) days or more than sixty (60) days before the
         date fixed for prepayment, specifying:

                    (i)  such date;

                    (ii) the Section  hereof under which the prepayment is to be
                         made;

                    (iii)the  principal  amount  of each Note to be  prepaid  on
                         such date;

                    (iv) the  interest to be paid on each such Note,  accrued to
                         the date fixed for prepayment; and

                    (v)  a  reasonably  detailed  calculation  of  an  estimated
                         Make-Whole Amount, if any (calculated as if the date of
                         such  notice  was  the  date  of  prepayment),  due  in
                         connection with such prepayment.

         Notice of  prepayment  having been so given,  the  aggregate  principal
         amount of the Notes to be prepaid  specified in such  notice,  together
         with the  Make-Whole  Amount as of the specified  prepayment  date with
         respect thereto,  if any, and accrued interest thereon shall become due
         and payable on the  specified  prepayment  date.  Two (2) Business Days
         prior to the making of such  prepayment,  the Company  shall deliver to
         each  holder of Notes by  facsimile  transmission  a  certificate  of a
         Senior Financial  Officer  specifying the details of the calculation of
         such Make-Whole  Amount as of the specified  prepayment date,  together
         with a copy of the Applicable  H.15 used in determining  the Make-Whole
         Discount  Rate (as both such  terms are  defined in the  definition  of
         Make-Whole Amount) in respect of such prepayment.

                  (c) Effect of Prepayment. Each prepayment of Notes pursuant to
         this  Section  4.2  shall  be  applied  to  the   Mandatory   Principal
         Amortization Payments in inverse order of maturity.

         4.3.  Partial  Prepayment  Pro  Rata.  If  at  the  time  any  required
prepayment or optional  prepayment under Section 4.1 or Section 4.2 is due there
is more  than one Note  outstanding,  the  aggregate  principal  amount  of each
required or optional  partial  prepayment of the Notes shall be allocated  among
the holders of the Notes at the time  outstanding  in  proportion,  as nearly as
practicable,  to the  respective  unpaid  principal  amounts  of the Notes  then
outstanding,  with adjustments,  to the extent practicable,  to equalize for any
prior prepayments not in such proportion.

         4.4.     Notation of Notes on Prepayment.

         Upon any partial  prepayment of a Note, such Note may, at the option of
the holder thereof be:

                    (a)  surrendered  to the Company  pursuant to Section 5.2 in
                         exchange  for a new Note in  principal  amount equal to
                         the   principal   amount   remaining   unpaid   on  the
                         surrendered Note;

                    (b)  made  available to the Company for notation  thereon of
                         the portion of the principal so prepaid; or

                    (c)  marked by such  holder  with a notation  thereon of the
                         portion of the principal so prepaid.

In case the  entire  principal  amount of any Note is paid,  such Note  shall be
surrendered to the Company for  cancellation  and shall not be reissued,  and no
Note shall be issued in lieu of the paid principal amount of any Note.

         4.5.     No Other Optional Prepayments.

         Except as provided in Section 4.2 or in  accordance  with an offer made
in  compliance  with  Section  6.15,  the  Company  may not  make  any  optional
prepayment  (whether directly or indirectly by purchase or other acquisition) in
respect of the Notes.

5.       registration; exchange; substitution of notes

         5.1.     Registration of Notes.

         The Company will cause to be kept at its office maintained  pursuant to
Section 6.13 a register for the registration and transfer of Notes. The name and
address of each holder of one or more Notes,  each transfer thereof and the name
and address of each  transferee of one or more Notes shall be registered in such
register.  The Person in whose name any Note shall be registered shall be deemed
and treated as the owner and holder thereof for all purposes hereof.

         5.2.     Exchange of Notes.

                  (a) Upon  surrender  of any Note at the office of the  Company
         maintained  pursuant to Section 6.13 duly endorsed or  accompanied by a
         written  instrument of transfer duly executed by the registered  holder
         of such Note or such holder's attorney duly authorized in writing,  the
         Company  will execute  and,  within five (5)  Business  Days after such
         surrender,  deliver,  at the  Company's  expense  (except  as  provided
         below),  new Notes in exchange  therefor,  in denominations of at least
         the Applicable Minimum  Denomination,  in an aggregate principal amount
         equal to the unpaid principal amount of the surrendered Note. Each such
         new Note shall, subject to Section 5.2(d), be payable to such Person as
         such  holder  may  request  and shall be  substantially  in the form of
         Exhibit A. Each such new Note shall be dated and bear interest from the
         date to which interest shall have been paid on the surrendered  Note or
         dated the date of the  surrendered  Note if no interest shall have been
         paid thereon.  The Company may require  payment of a sum  sufficient to
         cover any stamp tax or  governmental  charge  imposed in respect of any
         such transfer of Notes.

                  (b) The  Company  will pay the cost of  delivering  to or from
         such  holder's  home office or  custodian  bank from or to the Company,
         insured to the reasonable  satisfaction of such holder, the surrendered
         Note  and any  Note  issued  in  substitution  or  replacement  for the
         surrendered Note.

                  (c) Each holder of Notes  agrees  that,  in the event it shall
         sell or transfer any Note without surrendering such Note to the Company
         as set forth in Section 5.2(a), it shall:

                           (i)  prior  to the  delivery  of  such  Note,  make a
                  notation  thereon of all principal,  if any, paid on such Note
                  and shall also  indicate  thereon  the date to which  interest
                  shall have been paid on such Note; and

                           (ii) promptly  notify (or cause the transferee of any
                  such Note to notify)  the  Company of the name and  address of
                  the  transferee  of any  such  Note  so  transferred  and  the
                  effective date of such transfer.

                  (d)  Notwithstanding  anything  else  in this  Section  5.2 or
         elsewhere  in this  Agreement  to the  contrary,  each  holder of Notes
         agrees that such holder will not at any time  (except  with the written
         consent of the  Company)  sell or transfer any Note to any other Person
         (other  than  to a  Investor  Affiliate  of  such  holder)  unless  the
         outstanding principal amount of such Note at such time, aggregated with
         the outstanding principal amount of each other Note sold or transferred
         at such time to such other  Person (or group of other  Persons that are
         Investor  Affiliates of one another) and the aggregate principal amount
         of Notes (if any)  already held by such other Person (or group of other
         Persons that are Investor Affiliates of one another), equals or exceeds
         the Applicable Minimum Denomination at such time.

         5.3.     Replacement of Notes.

         Upon receipt by the Company of evidence  reasonably  satisfactory to it
of the ownership of and the loss,  theft,  destruction or mutilation of any Note
(which evidence shall be, in the case of an Institutional Investor,  notice from
such  Institutional  Investor  of  such  ownership  (or  of  ownership  by  such
Institutional   Investor's  nominee)  and  such  loss,  theft,   destruction  or
mutilation), and

          (a) In the case of loss, theft or destruction, of indemnity reasonably
     satisfactory to the Company (provided that if the holder of such Note is an
     Institutional  Investor or a nominee of such Institutional  Investor,  such
     Institutional  Investor's  own  unsecured  agreement of indemnity  shall be
     deemed to be satisfactory for such purpose), or

          (b) In  the  case  of  mutilation,  upon  surrender  and  cancellation
     thereof,

the Company at its own expense will execute and,  within five (5) Business  Days
after such  receipt,  deliver,  in lieu thereof,  a new Note,  dated and bearing
interest  from the date to which  interest  shall  have been paid on such  lost,
stolen,  destroyed  or  mutilated  Note or dated the date of such lost,  stolen,
destroyed or mutilated Note if no interest shall have been paid thereon.

         5.4.     Issuance Taxes.

         The Company will pay all taxes (if any) due in  connection  with and as
the result of the initial issuance and sales of the Notes and in connection with
any  modification  of this  Agreement or the Notes and shall save each holder of
Notes  harmless  without  limitation as to time against any and all  liabilities
with  respect to all such  taxes,  provided  that this  Section 5.4 shall not be
construed to require the Company to pay, or to save any holder of Notes harmless
against any liabilities with respect to, any income tax imposed on any holder of
Notes.  The  obligations of the Company under this Section 5.4 shall survive the
payment or prepayment of the Notes and the termination hereof.

6.       COVENANTS

         The Company covenants that on and after the Closing Date and so long as
any of the Notes shall be outstanding:

         6.1.     Net Worth.

         The Company  will not at any time permit  Consolidated  Net Worth to be
less than Fifty-Five Million Dollars ($55,000,000).

         6.2.     Fixed Charges Coverage.

         The Company will not at any time permit the ratio of:

                  (a)      the result of

                           (i)  Consolidated  Operating Cash Flow for the period
                  of four (4)  consecutive  fiscal  quarters of the Company then
                  most recently ended, minus

                           (ii) the  aggregate  amount of  Capital  Expenditures
                  incurred  by the  Company  and the  Subsidiaries  during  such
                  period;

to
                  (b)      Consolidated Fixed Charges for such period;

to be less than 1.5 to 1.0

         6.3.     Restricted Payments.
         The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, declare or
make, or become obligated to declare or make, any Restricted Payment unless:

                  (a)  Immediately  after,  and after  giving  effect  to,  such
         Restricted  Payment,  Consolidated Net Worth would be equal to at least
         the following amounts during the following periods:
<TABLE>

                                              Period                              Consolidated Net Worth
<S>                                            <C>                                             <C>        
                  Closing Date through January 1, 2000                                         $70,000,000
                  January 2, 2000 through December 30, 2000                                     75,000,000
                  December 31, 2000 through December 29, 2001                                   80,000,000
                  December 30, 2001 through December 28, 2002                                   85,000,000
                  December 29, 2002 through January 3, 2004                                     90,000,000
                  January 4, 2004 through January 1, 2005                                       95,000,000
                  January 2, 2005 through Maturity                                             100,000,000
</TABLE>

                  For purposes of  determining  whether a particular  Restricted
         Payment  will  cause  the  Consolidated  Net  Worth to fall  below  the
         above-described  applicable Consolidated Net Worth threshold amount, it
         shall be assumed that the Consolidated Net Worth  immediately  prior to
         such Restricted  Payment shall be equal to the  Consolidated  Net Worth
         reflected  in the most recent  Form 10-Q filed by the Company  with the
         Securities and Exchange  Commission or, if the Company has filed a Form
         10-K with the  Securities and Exchange  Commission  since the filing of
         its most recent Form 10-Q, the Consolidated Net Worth reflected in such
         Form 10-K.

                  (b) at the  time  of  such  declaration,  making  or  becoming
         obligated  and  immediately  before,  and after giving  effect to, such
         Restricted Payment and any concurrent transactions;

                    (i)  no Default or Event or Default  exists or would  exist,
                         and

                    (ii) the Company  would be  permitted by the  provisions  of
                         Section  6.4(a) to incur at least One Dollar ($1.00) of
                         additional Funded Debt.

         6.4.     Funded Debt; Subsidiary Debt.

                  (a) Funded Debt. The Company will not, and will not permit any
         Subsidiary  to, at any time after the Initial  issuance and sale of the
         Notes,  incur or in any other  manner  become  liable in respect of any
         Funded Debt (other than Funded Debt of a Subsidiary owed to the Company
         or a Wholly-Owned  Subsidiary) unless,  after giving effect thereto and
         to any concurrent  application of the proceeds of such Funded Debt, the
         ratio of:

                           (i)      Consolidated Funded Debt;

to
                           (ii) Consolidated  Operating Cash Flow for the period
                  of four (4)  consecutive  fiscal  quarters of the Company then
                  most recently ended;

would not exceed 3.25 to 1.0.

                  (b)   Subsidiary   Debt.  The  Company  will  not  permit  any
         Subsidiary  to, at any time after the initial  issuance and sale of the
         Notes,  incur or in any other  manner  become  liable in respect of any
         Debt  (other  than  Debt  of a  Subsidiary  owed  to the  Company  or a
         Wholly-Owned Subsidiary) unless, after giving effect thereto and to any
         concurrent  application  of  the  proceeds  of  such  Debt,  (i)  Total
         Subsidiary  Debt, plus (ii) Debt secured by Liens incurred  pursuant to
         Section   6.7(a)(viii),   would  not  exceed  five   percent   (5%)  of
         Consolidated  Capitalization  and provided further that such Debt could
         be incurred pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 6.4.

                  (c)      Deemed Incurrences.  For purposes hereof:

                           (i) each Person any of whose  outstanding  Debt is at
                  any time sold,  transferred  or  otherwise  disposed of by the
                  Company or a Subsidiary  shall be deemed to have  incurred all
                  such  Debt  at the  time  of  such  sale,  transfer  or  other
                  disposition;

                           (ii) each Person that becomes a Subsidiary  after the
                  Closing Date will be deemed to have  incurred all Debt of such
                  Person at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; and

                           (iii) each Person that at any time  extends,  renews,
                  refunds or refinances any Debt will be deemed to have incurred
                  such Debt at such time.

         6.5.     Transfers of Property; Subsidiary Stock.

                  (a) Transfers of Property.  The Company will not, and will not
         permit any Subsidiary to, sell, lease as lessor,  transfer or otherwise
         dispose of any Property (collectively, "Transfers"), except:

                    (i) Transfers of inventory and of unuseful, obsolete or worn
               out Property,  in each case in the ordinary course of business of
               the Company or such Subsidiary;

                    (ii)  Transfers  from a  Subsidiary  to the  Company or to a
               Wholly-Owned Subsidiary; and

                    (iii)  any other  Transfer  of  Property  at any time to any
               Person,   other  than  to  an   Affiliate,   for  an   Acceptable
               Consideration if:

                    (A)  the sum of

                    (1)  the current book value of such Property, plus

                    (2)  the aggregate  book value of all other  Property of the
                         Company and the Subsidiaries Transferred (other than in
                         Transfers  referred to in the foregoing  clause (i) and
                         clause  (ii)  (collectively,   "Excluded   Transfers"))
                         during the  period of three  hundred  sixty-five  (365)
                         days ended at the time of such Transfer,

                           would not exceed five  percent  (5%) of  Consolidated
                           Assets determined  immediately prior to giving effect
                           to such Transfer;

                                    (B)     the sum of

                    (1)  the current book value of such Property, plus

                    (2)  the aggregate  book value of all other  Property of the
                         Company and the Subsidiaries Transferred (other than in
                         Excluded Transfers) during the period commencing on the
                         Closing Date and ended at the time of such Transfer,
                           would  not  exceed   twenty-five   percent  (25%)  of
                           Consolidated  Assets determined  immediately prior to
                           giving effect to such Transfer; and

                                    (C)   immediately   before   and  after  the
                           consummation  of  such  Transfer,  and  after  giving
                           effect thereto,  no Default or Event of Default would
                           exist.

                  (b) Transfers of Subsidiary  Stock.  The Company will not, and
         will not permit any Subsidiary to, Transfer any shares of the stock (or
         any warrants,  rights or options to purchase stock or other  Securities
         exchangeable  for or  convertible  into  stock) of a  Subsidiary  (such
         stock,  warrants,  rights,  options and other Securities  herein called
         "Subsidiary  Stock"),  nor will any Subsidiary issue, sell or otherwise
         dispose of any shares of its own  Subsidiary  Stock,  provided that the
         foregoing restrictions do not apply to:

                    (i)  the  issuance  by a  Subsidiary  of  shares  of its own
               Subsidiary Stock to the Company or a Wholly-Owned Subsidiary;

                    (ii)  Transfers  (other  than  leases)  by the  Company or a
               Subsidiary  of shares of  Subsidiary  Stock to the  Company  or a
               Wholly-Owned Subsidiary;

                    (iii) the issuance by a Subsidiary of directors'  qualifying
               shares; and

                    (iv)  the  Transfer  of  all of the  Subsidiary  Stock  of a
               Subsidiary owned by the Company and the other Subsidiaries if:

                    (A)  such  Transfer  satisfies the  requirements  of Section
                         6.5(a)(iii);

                    (B)  in connection with such Transfer the entire  investment
                         (whether   represented  by  stock,   Debt,   claims  or
                         otherwise) of the Company and the other Subsidiaries in
                         such  Subsidiary is  Transferred to a Person other than
                         (1) the Company or (2) a Subsidiary not  simultaneously
                         being disposed of;

                    (C)  the  Subsidiary  being  disposed  of has no  continuing
                         investment in any other  Subsidiary not  simultaneously
                         being disposed of or in the Company; and

                    (D)  immediately  before and after the  consummation of such
                         Transfer,  and after giving effect thereto,  no Default
                         or Event of Default would exist.

For purposes of determining the book value of Property  constituting  Subsidiary
Stock being  Transferred as provided in clause (iv) above, such book value shall
be deemed to be the aggregate  book value of all assets of the  Subsidiary  that
shall have issued such Subsidiary Stock.

         6.6.     Merger, Consolidation, etc.

                  (a) Merger and  Consolidation.  The Company will not, and will
         not permit any Subsidiary to, merge with or into or consolidate with or
         into  any  other  Person  or  permit  any  other  Person  to  merge  or
         consolidate with or into it (except that a Subsidiary may merge into or
         consolidate  with  the  Company  or a  Wholly-Owned  Subsidiary  if the
         Company or such Wholly-Owned  Subsidiary is the surviving corporation),
         provided that the foregoing restriction does not apply to the merger or
         consolidation of the Company with another corporation if:

                           (i) the corporation  that results from such merger or
                  consolidation (the "Surviving Corporation") is organized under
                  the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof;

                           (ii) the due and punctual payment of the principal of
                  and  Make-Whole  Amount,  if any,  and  interest on all of the
                  Notes,  according  to their  tenor,  and the due and  punctual
                  performance  and  observance of all the covenants in the Notes
                  and this Agreement to be performed or observed by the Company,
                  are  expressly   assumed  or  acknowledged  by  the  Surviving
                  Corporation  pursuant to such  agreements  and  instruments as
                  shall be approved  by the  Required  Holders,  and the Company
                  causes to be  delivered  to each holder of Notes an opinion of
                  independent counsel, in form, scope and substance satisfactory
                  to the Required  Holders,  to the effect that such  agreements
                  and  instruments  are  enforceable  in  accordance  with their
                  terms; and

                           (iii) immediately prior to, and immediately after the
                  consummation  of the  transaction,  and  after  giving  effect
                  thereto,

                    (A)  no Default or Event of Default  exists or would  exist,
                         and

                    (B)  the  Surviving  Corporation  would be  permitted by the
                         provisions  of  Section  6.4(a)  to incur at least  One
                         Dollar ($1.00) of additional Funded Debt.

                  (b) Acquisition of Stock,  etc. The Company will not, and will
         not permit any Subsidiary  to, acquire any stock of any  corporation if
         upon  completion  of  such  acquisition  such  corporation  would  be a
         Subsidiary,  or acquire all of the Property of, or such of the Property
         as would permit the  transferee  to continue  any one or more  integral
         business  operations  of,  any  Person  unless,  immediately  after the
         consummation of such acquisition, and after giving effect thereto,

                    (i)  no Default or Event of Default  exists or would  exist,
                         and

                    (ii) the Company  would be  permitted by the  provisions  of
                         Section  6.4(a) to incur at least One Dollar ($1.00) of
                         additional Funded Debt.

         6.7.     Liens.

                  (a) Negative Pledge. The Company will not, and will not permit
         any  Subsidiary  to,  cause or permit to exist,  or agree or consent to
         cause or  permit  to exist  in the  future  (upon  the  happening  of a
         contingency or otherwise),  any of their Property, whether now owned or
         hereafter acquired, to be subject to any Lien except:

                           (i) Liens  securing  Property  taxes,  assessments or
                  governmental  charges  or levies or the  claims or  demands of
                  materialmen,   mechanics,  carriers,  warehousemen,   vendors,
                  landlords  and other like  Persons,  provided that the payment
                  thereof is not at the time required by Section 6.11;

                           (ii)     Liens

                         (A) arising from judicial attachments and judgments,

                         (B) securing appeal bonds or supersedeas bonds, and

                         (C)  arising  in  connection  with  court   proceedings
                    (including,  without limitation, surety bonds and letters of
                    credit or any other instrument serving a similar purpose),

                  provided that (1) the execution or other  enforcement  of such
                  Liens is effectively  stayed,  (2) the claims secured  thereby
                  are being actively  contested in good faith and by appropriate
                  proceedings,  (3)  adequate  book  reserves  shall  have  been
                  established  and  maintained  and  shall  exist  with  respect
                  thereto and (4) the  aggregate  amount so secured shall not at
                  any time exceed Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000);

                         (iii) Liens  incurred or deposits  made in the ordinary
                    course of business

                                    (A)    in    connection     with    workers'
                           compensation, unemployment insurance, social security
                           and other like laws, and

                                    (B) to secure the  performance of letters of
                           credit,  bids,  tenders,  sales  contracts,   leases,
                           statutory  obligations,  surety and performance bonds
                           (of a type other than set forth in Section 6.7(a)(ii)
                           and  other  similar   obligations   not  incurred  in
                           connection with the borrowing of money, the obtaining
                           of advances or the payment of the  deferred  purchase
                           price of Property;

                           (iv) Liens in the nature of reservations, exceptions,
                  encroachments,     easements,    rights-of-way,     covenants,
                  conditions,  restrictions,  leases  and  other  similar  title
                  exceptions or encumbrances  affecting real Property,  provided
                  that such exceptions and  encumbrances do not in the aggregate
                  detract from the value of such  Properties  or interfere  with
                  the  use of  such  Property  in the  ordinary  conduct  of the
                  business of the Company and the  Subsidiaries in a manner that
                  has or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse
                  Effect;

                           (v) Liens on Property of a Subsidiary,  provided that
                  such Liens secure only obligations owing to the Company;

                           (vi) Liens in existence on the Closing Date  securing
                  Debt,   provided   that  such  Liens  are  described  in  Part
                  6.7(a)(vi) of Annex 3;

                           (vii) Purchase  Money Liens,  if, after giving effect
                  thereto and to any concurrent transactions:

                    (A)  each such Purchase Money Lien secures Debt in an amount
                         not  exceeding  eighty  percent  (80%)  of the  cost of
                         acquisition or construction of the particular  Property
                         to which such Debt relates;

                    (B)  such  Property is useful,  and intended to be used,  in
                         the  ordinary  course of  business  of the Company or a
                         Subsidiary;

                    (C)  the aggregate  principal  amount of all Debt secured by
                         all  such  Purchase  Money  Liens  does not at any time
                         exceed    five    percent    (5%)    of    Consolidated
                         Capitalization; and

                    (D)  no Default or Event of Default would exist; and

                         (viii) In addition to Liens  permitted by the preceding
                    subparagraphs  (i) through (vii),  additional Liens securing
                    Debt;  provided  that (i) such Debt shall be permitted to be
                    incurred  pursuant to Section  6.4(a) and (ii) the aggregate
                    amount  of  Debt   secured  by  Liens   permitted   by  this
                    subparagraph  (viii) plus Debt incurred  pursuant to Section
                    6.4(b),  shall not at any time exceed five  percent  (5%) of
                    Consolidated Capitalization.

                  (b)  Equal  and  Ratable  Lien;  Equitable  Lien.  In case any
         Property shall be subjected to a Lien in violation of this Section 6.7,
         the Company will  immediately  make or cause to be made, to the fullest
         extent permitted by applicable law, provision whereby the Notes will be
         secured equally and ratably with all other obligations  secured thereby
         pursuant to such agreements and instruments as shall be approved by the
         Required  Holders,  and the Company  will cause to be delivered to each
         holder of a Note an opinion,  satisfactory in form and substance to the
         Required  Holders,  of  independent  counsel  to the  effect  that such
         agreements and  instruments  are  enforceable in accordance  with their
         terms,  and in any such case the Notes shall have the  benefit,  to the
         fullest  extent that,  and with such  priority as, the holders of Notes
         may be entitled  thereto under  applicable law, of an equitable Lien on
         such Property  securing the Notes (provided that,  notwithstanding  the
         foregoing,  each  holder of Notes  shall have the right to elect at any
         time, by delivery of written notice of such election to the Company, to
         cause the Notes  held by such  holder not to be secured by such Lien or
         such equitable  Lien). A violation of this Section 6.7 will  constitute
         an Event of Default, whether or not any such provision is made pursuant
         to this Section 6.7(b).

                  (c) Financing  Statements.  The Company will not, and will not
         permit any Subsidiary to, sign or file a financing  statement under the
         Uniform  Commercial Code of any jurisdiction  that names the Company or
         such Subsidiary as debtor, or sign any security  agreement  authorizing
         any secured  party  thereunder  to file any such  financing  statement,
         except, in any such case, a financing statement filed or to be filed to
         perfect  or  protect  a  security  interest  that the  Company  or such
         Subsidiary is not prohibited to create,  assume or incur,  or permit to
         exist,  under  the  foregoing  provisions  of  this  Section  6.7 or to
         evidence  for  informational  purposes a lessor's  interest in Property
         leased to the Company or any such Subsidiary.

         6.8.     Restricted Investments.

         The Company  will not,  and will not permit any  Subsidiary  to make or
permit to exist any Restricted  Investment unless  immediately  after, and after
giving effect to such Restricted Investment:

                  (a) the aggregate amount of all Restricted Investments held by
         the  Company  and the  Subsidiaries  at such time  would not exceed ten
         percent (10%) of Consolidated Capitalization; and

                  (b) no Default or Event of Default exists or would exist.

         6.9.     Transactions with Affiliates.

         The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into
any transaction,  including,  without limitation, the purchase, sale or exchange
of Property or the rendering of any service,  with any Affiliate,  except in the
ordinary course of and pursuant to the reasonable  requirements of the Company's
or such  Subsidiary's  business  and  upon  fair  and  reasonable  terms no less
favorable  to the Company of such  Subsidiary  than would obtain in a comparable
arm's-length  transaction  with a Person not an Affiliate  (provided  that, with
respect  to  salaries,  bonuses  and other  compensation  paid to  officers  and
directors of the Company and of the  Subsidiaries,  such terms shall be fair and
reasonable  but  need  not be  comparable  to  terms  that  would  obtain  in an
arm's-length transaction).

         6.10.    Nature of Business.

         The Company will not, and will not permit any  Subsidiary to, engage in
any business if, as a result  thereof,  the general  nature of the businesses of
the  Company  and the  Subsidiaries,  taken as a whole,  would be  substantially
changed from the businesses thereof described in the Offering Memorandum.

         6.11.    Payment of Taxes and Claims.

         The Company will,  and will cause each  Subsidiary  to, pay before they
become delinquent:

                    (a)  all  taxes,  assessments  and  governmental  charges or
                         levies imposed upon it or its Property; and

                    (b)  all  claims  or  demands  of  materialmen,   mechanics,
                         carriers,  warehousemen,  vendors,  landlords and other
                         like  Persons  that,  if  unpaid,  might  result in the
                         creation of a Lien upon its Property;

provided, that items of the foregoing description need not be paid

                           (i) while being actively  contested in good faith and
                  by  appropriate  proceedings as long as adequate book reserves
                  have been  established  and  maintained and exist with respect
                  thereto, and

                           (ii) so  long  as the  title  of the  Company  or the
                  Subsidiary, as the case may be, to, and its right to use, such
                  Property, is not materially adversely affected thereby.

         6.12.    Maintenance of Properties; Corporate Existence; etc.

         The Company will, and will cause each Subsidiary to:

                  (a)  Property - maintain its  Property in good  condition  and
         working order, ordinary wear and tear excepted,  and make all necessary
         renewals,   replacements,   additions,   betterments  and  improvements
         thereto;

                  (b) Insurance - maintain, with financially sound and reputable
         insurers,  insurance with respect to its Property and business  against
         such casualties and  contingencies,  of such types (including,  without
         limitation,  insurance  with respect to losses  arising out of Property
         loss or  damage,  public  liability,  business  interruption,  larceny,
         workers' compensation, embezzlement or other criminal misappropriation)
         and in such  amounts as is  customary  in the case of  corporations  of
         established  reputations  engaged in the same or a similar business and
         similarly situated;

                  (c) Financial  Records - keep  accurate and complete  books of
         records and accounts in which  accurate and complete  entries  shall be
         made  of all  its  business  transactions  and  that  will  permit  the
         provision of accurate and complete  financial  statements in accordance
         with GAAP;

                  (d)      Corporate Existence and Rights -

                           (i) do or cause to be done all  things  necessary  to
                  preserve  and keep in full  force  and  effect  its  corporate
                  existence,  rights  (charter and  statutory)  and  franchises,
                  except where the failure to do so, in the aggregate, could not
                  reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and

                           (ii)     to maintain each Subsidiary as a Subsidiary,

in each case except as permitted by Section 6.5(b) and Section 6.6; and

                  (e)  Compliance  with  Law - not be in  violation  of any law,
         ordinance or  governmental  rule or  regulation  to which it is subject
         (including,  without limitation,  any Environmental  Protection Law and
         OSHA)  and  not  fall  to  obtain  any  license,  certificate,  permit,
         franchise  or  other  governmental   authorization   necessary  to  the
         ownership of its  Properties  or to the conduct of its business if such
         violations or failures to obtain, in the aggregate, could reasonably be
         expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

         6.13.    Payment of Notes and Maintenance of Office.

         The Company will  punctually pay, or cause to be paid, the principal of
and interest (and Make-Whole Amount, if any) on, the Notes, as and when the same
shall  become due  according  to the terms  hereof  and of the  Notes,  and will
maintain an office at the address of the Company set forth in Section 10.1 where
notices, presentations and demands in respect hereof or of the Notes may be made
upon it. Such office will be  maintained  at such address until such time as the
Company  shall notify the holders of the Notes of any change of location of such
office, which will in any event be located within the United States of America.

         6.14.    ERISA, etc.

                  (a)  Compliance.  The Company will,  and will cause each ERISA
         Affiliate  to, at all times with  respect to each  Pension  Plan,  make
         timely payment of  contributions  required to meet the minimum  funding
         standard  set forth in ERISA or the IRC with  respect  thereto,  and to
         comply with all other applicable provisions of ERISA.

                  (b)  Relationship  of Vested  Benefits to Pension Plan Assets.
         The  Company  will  not at any time  permit  the  present  value of all
         employees  benefits vested under each Pension Plan to exceed the assets
         of such Pension Plan allocable to such vested benefits at such time, in
         each case  determined  pursuant  to Section  6.14(c),  if such  excess,
         together  with the  excess  (if any) of such  present  value  over such
         assets for each  other  Pension  Plan at such  time,  is more than Five
         Million Dollars ($5,000,000).

                  (c) Valuations.  All assumptions and methods used to determine
         the actuarial valuation of vested employee benefits under Pension Plans
         and the present  value of assets of Pension Plans will be reasonable in
         the  good  faith  judgment  of the  Company  and will  comply  with all
         requirements of law.

                  (d)  Prohibited  Actions.  The Company  will not, and will not
permit any ERISA Affiliate to:

                           (i)  engage  in  any  "prohibited   transaction"  (as
                  defined  in section  406 of ERISA or section  4975 of the IRC)
                  that  would  result in the  imposition  of a  material  tax or
                  penalty;

                           (ii)  incur  with  respect  to any  Pension  Plan any
                  "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in section 302 of
                  ERISA), whether or not waived;

                         (iii) terminate any Pension Plan in a manner that could
                    result in

                    (A)  the imposition of a Lien on the Property of the Company
                         or any Subsidiary pursuant to section 4068 of ERISA, or

                    (B)  the  creation of any  liability  under  section 4062 of
                         ERISA;

                         (iv) fail to make any  payment  required by section 515
                    of ERISA; or

                           (v) at any  time  be an  "employer"  (as  defined  in
                  section  3(5)  of  ERISA)   required  to   contribute  to  any
                  Multiemployer  Plan if, at such time,  it could  reasonably be
                  expected  that  the  Company  or  any  Subsidiary  will  incur
                  withdrawal liability in respect of such Multiemployer Plan and
                  such  liability,  if  incurred,  together  with the  aggregate
                  amount of all other withdrawal  liability as to which there is
                  a reasonable  expectation  of incurrence by the Company or any
                  Subsidiary under any one or more  Multiemployer  Plans,  could
                  reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.

                  (e) Foreign  Pension  Plans.  The Company will, and will cause
         each  Subsidiary  to, make all required  payments in respect of funding
         any Foreign Pension Plan applicable to such Person and otherwise comply
         with all applicable laws, statutes,  rules and regulations governing or
         affecting such Foreign  Pension Plan,  except where the failure to make
         any  such  payment  or  the  failure  to so  otherwise  comply,  in the
         aggregate for all such  failures,  could not  reasonably be expected to
         have a Material Adverse Effect.

         6.15.    Pro-Rata Offers.

         The  Company  will  not,  and will not  permit  any  Subsidiary  or any
Affiliate to,  directly or indirectly,  acquire or make any offer to acquire any
Notes unless the Company or such  Subsidiary or Affiliate  shall have offered to
acquire Notes,  pro rata, from all holders of the Notes and upon the same terms.
In case the Company acquires any Notes,  such Notes will immediately  thereafter
be canceled and no Notes will be issued in substitution therefor.

         6.16.    Private Offering.

         The  Company  will not,  and will not permit  any Person  acting on its
behalf to,  offer the Notes or any part  thereof or any similar  Securities  for
issuance or sale to, or solicit  any offer to acquire any of the same from,  any
Person so as to bring the issuance  and sale of the Notes within the  provisions
of section 5 of the Securities Act.

7.       INFORMATION AS TO COMPANY

         7.1.     Financial and Business Information.

         The Company will deliver to each holder of Notes:

                  (a) Quarterly  Statements - as soon as  practicable  after the
         end of each quarterly  fiscal period in each fiscal year of the Company
         (other than the last quarterly fiscal period of each such fiscal year),
         and in any event  within  forty-five  (45) days  thereafter,  duplicate
         copies of:

                         (i) a consolidated  statement of financial condition of
                    the  Company  and  the  Subsidiaries  as at the  end of such
                    quarter, and

                           (ii)  consolidated  statements of operations and cash
                  flows of the Company and the Subsidiaries for such quarter and
                  (in the case of the second and third quarters) for the portion
                  of the fiscal year ending with such quarter,

setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding
periods in the  immediately  preceding  fiscal year,  all in reasonable  detail,
prepared in accordance  with GAAP applicable to quarterly  financial  statements
generally,  and certified as complete and correct,  subject to changes resulting
from year-end adjustments, by a Senior Financial Officer, and accompanied by the
certificate required by Section 7.2;

                  (b) Annual  Statements - as soon as practicable  after the end
         of each fiscal year of the Company, and in any event within ninety (90)
         days thereafter, duplicate copies of:

                         (i)  consolidated  and   consolidating   statements  of
                    financial condition of the Company and the Subsidiaries,  as
                    at the end of such year, and

                           (ii)  consolidated  and  consolidating  statements of
                  operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows of the Company
                  and the Subsidiaries for such year,

setting forth in each case in comparative  form the figures for the  immediately
preceding  fiscal year, all in reasonable  detail,  prepared in accordance  with
GAAP, and accompanied by:

                                    (A)  In  the   case  of  such   consolidated
                           statements,   an  opinion   thereon  of   independent
                           certified public  accountants of recognized  national
                           standing, which opinion shall, without qualification,
                           state that such financial  statements present fairly,
                           in all material  respects,  the financial position of
                           the companies  being  reported upon and their results
                           of  operations  and cash flows and have been prepared
                           in conformity  with GAAP, and that the examination of
                           such  accountants  in connection  with such financial
                           statements has been made in accordance with generally
                           accepted  auditing  standards,  and that  such  audit
                           provides a  reasonable  basis for such opinion in the
                           circumstances,

                    (B)  a  statement  from such  independent  certified  public
                         accountants  that such  consolidating  statements  were
                         prepared using the same work papers as were used in the
                         preparation of such consolidated statements,

                    (C)  a certification by a Senior Financial Officer that such
                         consolidated and consolidating  statements are complete
                         and correct, and

                    (D)  the  certificates  required  by Section 7.2 and Section
                         7.3;

                  (c) Audit Reports - promptly upon receipt  thereof,  a copy of
         each  other  report  submitted  to the  Company  or any  Subsidiary  by
         independent  accountants  in  connection  with any  management  report,
         special  audit  report or  comparable  analysis  prepared  by them with
         respect to the books of the Company or any Subsidiary;

                  (d) SEC and  Other  Reports -  promptly  upon  their  becoming
         available,  a copy  of each  financial  statement,  report  (including,
         without  limitation,  each Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q,  each Annual
         Report on Form 10-K and each  Current  Report on Form  8-K),  notice or
         proxy  statement sent by the Company or any Subsidiary to  stockholders
         generally and of each regular or periodic  report and any  registration
         statement,  prospectus or written communication (other than transmittal
         letters),  and each amendment thereto,  in respect thereof filed by the
         Company  or any  Subsidiary  with,  or  received  by,  such  Person  in
         connection  therewith  from,  the National  Association  of  Securities
         Dealers,  any  securities  exchange  or  the  Securities  and  Exchange
         Commission or any successor agency;

                  (e)      ERISA -

                    (i)  Immediately  upon becoming  aware of the  occurrence of
                         any

                    (A)  "reportable  event"  (as  defined  in  section  4043 of
               ERISA),  excluding,  however, such events as to which the PBGC by
               regulation  shall have waived the  requirement of section 4043(a)
               of ERISA  that it be  notified  within  thirty  (30)  days of the
               occurrence  of such  event  (provided  that a failure to meet the
               minimum funding standard of section 412 of the IRC and of section
               302 of ERISA shall not be so excluded  regardless of the issuance
               of any such waiver of the notice  requirement in accordance  with
               either section 4043(a) of ERISA or section 412(d) of the IRC), or

                    (B) "prohibited  transaction"  (as defined in section 406 of
               ERISA or section 4975 of the IRC),

                    In  connection  with any Pension  Plan or any trust  created
               thereunder,  a written notice specifying the nature thereof, what
               action the  Company is taking or  proposes  to take with  respect
               thereto and, when known,  any action taken by the IRS, the DOL or
               the PBGC with respect thereto, and

                    (ii)  prompt  written  notice of and,  where  applicable,  a
               description of

                    (A)  any notice from the PBGC in respect of the commencement
                         of any proceeding  pursuant to section 4042 of ERISA to
                         terminate any Pension Plan or for the  appointment of a
                         trustee to administer any Pension Plan,

                    (B)  any distress  termination  notice delivered to the PBGC
                         under  section  4041 of ERISA in respect of any Pension
                         Plan,  and any  determination  of the  PBGC in  respect
                         thereof,

                    (C)  the   placement   of   any   Multiemployer    Plan   in
                         reorganization status under Title IV of ERISA,

                    (D)  any Multiemployer Plan becoming "insolvent" (as defined
                         in section 4245 of ERISA) under Title IV of ERISA, and

                    (E)  the whole or partial  withdrawal  of the Company or any
                         ERISA  Affiliate  from any  Multiemployer  Plan and the
                         withdrawal liability incurred in connection therewith;

                    (f)  Actions,  Proceedings - promptly after the commencement
                         thereof, notice of any action or proceeding relating to
                         the  Company or any  Subsidiary  in any court or before
                         any  Governmental  Authority  or  arbitration  board or
                         tribunal as to which there is a reasonable  possibility
                         of an  adverse  determination  and that,  if  adversely
                         determined, would have a Material Adverse Effect;

                    (g)  Certain Environmental Matters - promptly written notice
                         of and a description of any event or circumstance that,
                         had such  event or  circumstance  occurred  or  existed
                         immediately  prior to the Closing Date, would have been
                         required  to  be  disclosed  as  an  exception  to  any
                         statement set forth in Section 2.13;

                    (h)  Notice of  Default  or Event of  Default -  immediately
                         upon  becoming  aware of the existence of any condition
                         or event  that  constitutes  a  Default  or an Event of
                         Default,  a written  notice  specifying  the nature and
                         period of existence thereof and what action the Company
                         is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto;

                    (i)  Notice of Claimed  Default - immediately  upon becoming
                         aware  that the  holder of any Note,  or of any Debt or
                         any  Security of the Company or any  Subsidiary,  shall
                         have  given  notice  or taken  any  other  action  with
                         respect to a claimed Default, Event or Default, default
                         or event of default,  a written  notice  specifying the
                         notice  given or action  taken by such  holder  and the
                         nature  of  the  claimed  Default,  Event  of  Default,
                         default or event of default and what action the Company
                         is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto; and

                    (j)  Requested  Information  - with  reasonable  promptness,
                         such  other data and  information  as from time to time
                         may be  reasonably  requested  by any  holder of Notes,
                         including, without limitation,

                    (i) copies of any statement, report or certificate furnished
               to any holder of any Debt or any  Security  of the Company or any
               Subsidiary,

                           (ii) information requested to comply with any request
                  of the  National  Association  of Insurance  Commissioners  in
                  respect of the designation of the Notes, and

                           (iii) information  requested to comply with 17 C.F.R.
                  ss.230.144A, as amended from time to time,

         provided  that any such  request  with  respect  to any of the data and
         information referred to in the foregoing clauses (i), (ii), (iii) shall
         be deemed to be reasonable for purposes of this Section 7.1(j).

         7.2.     Officers' Certificates.

         Each set of  financial  statements  delivered  to each  holder of Notes
pursuant  to  Section  7.1(a)  or  Section  7.1(b)  shall  be  accompanied  by a
certificate of a Senior Financial Officer setting forth:

                  (a) Covenant Compliance - the information  (including detailed
         calculations) required in order to establish whether the Company was in
         compliance  with the  requirements  of Section 6.1 through Section 6.9,
         inclusive,  during the period  covered by the  statement of  operations
         then being  furnished  (including  with  respect to each such  Section,
         where  applicable,  the  calculations of the maximum or minimum amount,
         ratio or percentage, as the case may be, permissible under the terms of
         such Sections, and the calculations of the amounts, ratio or percentage
         then in existence); and

                  (b)  Event of  Default - a  statement  that the  signers  have
         reviewed the relevant terms hereof and have made, or caused to be made,
         under their supervision, a review of the transactions and conditions of
         the Company and the  Subsidiaries  from the beginning of the accounting
         period covered by the income  statements  being delivered  therewith to
         the  date of the  certificate  and  that  such  review  shall  not have
         disclosed  the  existence  during such period of any condition or event
         that  constitutes  a  Default  or an Event of  Default  or, if any such
         condition or event existed or exists,  specifying the nature and period
         of  existence  thereof and what action the Company  shall have taken or
         proposes to take with respect thereto.

         7.3.     Accountants' Certificates.

         Each set of annual financial  statement  delivered  pursuant to Section
7.1(b) shall be accompanied by a certificate of the accountants who certify such
financial statements, stating that they have reviewed this Agreement and stating
further,  whether,  in making their audit, such accountants have become aware of
any  condition or event that then  constitutes a Default or an Event of Default,
and, if such accountants are aware that any such condition or event then exists,
specifying the nature and period of existence thereof.

         7.4.     Inspection.

         The Company will permit the representatives of each holder of Notes, at
the  expense of the  Company at any time when a Default or Event of Default  has
occurred and is in existence,  and  otherwise at the expense of such holder,  to
visit and inspect any of the  Properties  of the Company or any  Subsidiary,  to
examine  all their  respective  books of  account,  records,  reports  and other
papers, to make copies and extracts  therefrom,  and to discuss their respective
affairs,  finances and accounts with their  respective  officers,  employees and
independent  public  accountants  (and by this provision the Company  authorizes
such  accountants  to discuss  the  finances  and affairs of the Company and the
Subsidiaries),  all at such  reasonable  times and as often as may be reasonably
requested.

8.       EVENTS OF DEFAULT

         8.1.     Nature of Events.

         An "Event of Default" shall exist if any of the following occurs and is
continuing at any time:

                  (a)  Principal  or  Make-Whole  Amount  Payments - the Company
         shall fail to make any payment of principal or Make-Whole Amount on any
         Note on or before the date such payment is due;

                  (b)  Interest  Payments - the  Company  shall fail to make any
         payment of  interest on any Note on or before  five (5)  Business  Days
         after the date such payment is due;

                  (c)  Particular   Covenant  Defaults  -  the  Company  or  any
         Subsidiary  shall fail to perform or observe any covenant  contained in
         Section 6.1 through  6.8,  inclusive,  or in Section  7.1(h) or Section
         7.1(i),  and such  failure  shall  continue for more than five (5) days
         after such  failure  shall  first  become  known to any  officer of the
         Company;

                  (d) Other Defaults - the Company or any Subsidiary  shall fail
         to comply  with any other  provision  hereof,  and such  failure  shall
         continue for more than thirty (30) days after such failure  shall first
         become known to any officer of the Company;

                  (e)   Warranties   or    Representations   -   any   warranty,
         representation  or  other  statement  by or on  behalf  of the  Company
         contained  herein or in any  certificate  or  instrument  furnished  in
         compliance  with or in  reference  hereto  shall  have  been  false  or
         misleading in any material respect when made;

                  (f)      Default on Debt or Security -

                    (i) the  Company  or any  Subsidiary  shall fail to make any
               payment on any Debt or any Security when due; or

                           (ii) any event  shall  occur or any  condition  shall
                  exist in respect of any Debt or any Security of the Company or
                  any Subsidiary, or under any agreement securing or relating to
                  any such Debt or Security, that immediately or with any one or
                  more of the  passage  of time,  the  giving  of  notice or the
                  expiration of waivers or  modifications  granted in respect of
                  such event or condition:

                                    (A)  causes (or  permits  any one or more of
                           the holders  thereof or a trustee  therefor to cause)
                           such  Debt or  Security,  or a  portion  thereof,  to
                           become due prior to its stated  maturity  or prior to
                           its regularly scheduled date or dates of payment; or

                                    (B)  permits  any one or more of the holders
                           thereof or a trustee  therefor to require the Company
                           or any Subsidiary to repurchase such Debt or Security
                           from such holder;

                  provided  that the  aggregate  amount  of all  obligations  in
                  respect of all such Debt and  Securities  referred  to in this
                  clause  (f)  exceeds  at  such  time  Three  Million   Dollars
                  ($3,000,000);

                  (g)      Involuntary Bankruptcy Proceedings -

                           (i) a receiver,  liquidator,  custodian or trustee of
                  the  Company or any  Subsidiary,  or of all or any part of the
                  Property of either, shall be appointed by court order and such
                  order  shall  remain in effect for more than thirty (30) days,
                  or an order for relief  shall be entered  with  respect to the
                  Company or any  Subsidiary,  or the Company or any  Subsidiary
                  shall be adjudicated bankrupt or insolvent;

                           (ii)  any  of the  Property  of  the  Company  or any
                  Subsidiary  shall be sequestered by court order and such order
                  shall remain in effect for more than thirty (30) days; or

                           (iii) a petition  shall be filed  against the Company
                  or  any  Subsidiary  under  any  bankruptcy,   reorganization,
                  arrangement,  insolvency, readjustment of debt, dissolution or
                  liquidation law of any jurisdiction,  whether now or hereafter
                  in effect,  and shall not be dismissed within thirty (30) days
                  after such filing;

                  (h) Voluntary  Petitions - the Company or any Subsidiary shall
         file a petition in  voluntary  bankruptcy  or seeking  relief under any
         provision of any bankruptcy,  reorganization,  arrangement, insolvency,
         readjustment   of  debt,   dissolution  or   liquidation   law  of  any
         jurisdiction,  whether now or hereafter in effect,  or shall consent to
         the filing of any petition against it under any such law;

                  (i) Assignments  for Benefit of Creditors,  etc. - the Company
         or any  Subsidiary  shall  make an  assignment  for the  benefit of its
         creditors,  or shall admit in writing its inability,  or shall fail, to
         pay its debts  generally  as they become  due, or shall  consent to the
         appointment of a receiver,  liquidator or trustee of the Company or any
         Subsidiary or of all or any part of the Property of either; or

                  (j)  Undischarged  Final Judgments - a final judgment or final
         judgments  for the  payment  of money  aggregating  in  excess of Three
         Million Dollars  ($3,000,000)  shall be outstanding  against any one or
         more of the Company and the  Subsidiaries and any one of such judgments
         shall have been  outstanding  for more than  thirty  (30) days from the
         date of its entry and shall not have been discharged in full or stayed.

         8.2.     Default Remedies.

                  (a)      Acceleration on Event of Default.

                           (i) If an Event of Default  specified  in clause (g),
                  clause (h) or clause (i) of Section  8.1 shall  exist,  all of
                  the Notes at the time outstanding shall  automatically  become
                  immediately  due and payable,  together with interest  accrued
                  thereon and the Make-Whole Amount at such time with respect to
                  such  principal  amount of such  Notes;  in each case  without
                  presentment,  demand,  protest  of notice of any kind,  all of
                  which are hereby expressly waived.

                           (ii)  If  an  Event  of  Default   other  than  those
                  specified in clause (g),  clause (h) and clause (i) of Section
                  8.1 shall  exist,  the  holder or  holders  of at least  fifty
                  percent   (50%)  in   principal   amount  of  the  Notes  then
                  outstanding  (exclusive of Notes then owned by any one or more
                  of the Company,  any Subsidiary or any Affiliate) may exercise
                  any right, power or remedy permitted to such holder or holders
                  by law and shall have,  in  particular,  without  limiting the
                  generality of the  foregoing,  the right to declare the entire
                  principal of, and all interest  accrued on, all the Notes then
                  outstanding  to be, and such  Notes  shall  thereupon  become,
                  immediately due and payable, without any presentment,  demand,
                  protest or other  notice of any kind,  all of which are hereby
                  expressly waived, and the Company shall immediately pay to the
                  holder or holders of all the Notes then outstanding the entire
                  principal  of, and interest  accrued on, the Notes and, to the
                  extent  permitted by applicable law, the Make-Whole  Amount on
                  the date of such  declaration  with respect to such  principal
                  amount of such Notes.

                  (b) Acceleration on Payment  Default.  During the existence of
         an Event of Default described in Section 8.1(a) or Section 8.1(b),  and
         irrespective  of  whether  the Notes then  outstanding  shall have been
         declared to be due and  payable  pursuant  to Section  8.2(a)(ii),  any
         holder of Notes  that  shall  have not  consented  to any  waiver  with
         respect to such Event of  Default  may,  at such  holder's  option,  by
         notice in writing to the  Company,  declare the Notes then held by such
         holder to be, and such Notes shall  thereupon  become,  immediately due
         and payable  together with all interest  accrued  thereon,  without any
         presentment,  demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which
         are hereby expressly  waived,  and the Company shall immediately pay to
         such holder the entire principal of interest accrued on such Notes and,
         to the extent  permitted by applicable  law, the  Make-Whole  Amount at
         such time with respect to such principal amount of such Notes.

                  (c) Valuable Rights. The Company acknowledges, and the parties
         hereto agree,  that the right of each holder to maintain its investment
         in the Notes  free from  repayment  by the  Company  (except  as herein
         specifically  provided for) is a valuable  right and that the provision
         for payment of a Make-Whole Amount by the Company in the event that the
         Notes  are  prepaid  or are  accelerated  as a  result  of an  Event of
         Default,  is intended to provide  compensation  for the  deprivation of
         such right under such circumstances.

                  (d)  Other  Remedies.  During  the  existence  of an  Event of
         Default and  irrespective of whether the Notes then  outstanding  shall
         have been declared to be due and payable pursuant to Section 8.2(a)(ii)
         and irrespective of whether any holder of Notes then outstanding  shall
         otherwise have pursued or be pursuing any other rights or remedies, any
         holder of Notes may proceed to protect and enforce its rights hereunder
         and under such Notes by  exercising  such  remedies as are available to
         such holder in respect thereof under  applicable law, either by suit in
         equity or by action at law, or both,  whether for specific  performance
         of any  agreement  contained  herein or in aid of the  exercise  of any
         power granted herein, provided that the maturity of such holder's Notes
         may be accelerated  only in accordance  with Section 8.2(a) and Section
         8.2(b).

                  (e) Nonwaiver  and Expenses.  No course of dealing on the part
         of any  holder  of Notes nor any  delay or  failure  on the part of any
         holder of Notes to exercise any right shall operate as a waiver of such
         right or otherwise prejudice such holder's rights, powers and remedies.
         If the  Company  shall  fail to pay  when  due  any  principal  of,  or
         Make-Whole  Amount or  interest  on, any Note,  or shall fail to comply
         with any other provision  hereof, or if there shall be a controversy or
         potential  controversy  between the Company and one or more  holders of
         Notes as to any of the provisions of this  Agreement or the Notes,  the
         Company shall pay to each holder of Notes,  to the extent  permitted by
         applicable  law,  such further  amounts as shall be sufficient to cover
         the costs  and  expenses  (including,  without  limitation,  reasonable
         attorneys'  fees)  incurred by each such holder in collecting  any sums
         due on such Notes or in otherwise assessing, analyzing or enforcing any
         rights or remedies that are or may be available to it.

         8.3.     Annulment of Acceleration of Notes.

         If a declaration  is made pursuant to Section  8.2(a)(ii),  then and in
every such case,  the holders of at least  fifty-one  percent (51%) in aggregate
principal amount of the Notes then outstanding (exclusive of Notes then owned by
any one or more of the Company,  any  Subsidiaries  and any Affiliates)  may, by
written  instrument  filed with the Company,  rescind and annul such declaration
and the  consequences  thereof,  provided that at the time such  declaration  is
annulled and rescinded:

                    (a) no  judgment or decree  shall have been  entered for the
               payment of any moneys due on or pursuant hereto or the Notes;

                  (b) all arrears of  interest  upon all the Notes and all other
         sums payable hereunder and under the Notes (except any principal of, or
         interest or Make-Whole  Amount on, the Notes that shall have become due
         and payable by reason of such  declaration  under  Section  8.2(a)(ii))
         shall have been duly paid; and

                  (c) each and every other  Default  and Event of Default  shall
         have been waived  pursuant to Section  10.5 or  otherwise  made good or
         cured;

and provided  further that no such  rescission and annulment  shall extend to or
affect any subsequent Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent
thereon.

9.       INTERPRETATION OF THIS AGREEMENT

         9.1.     Terms Defined.

         As used herein,  the following  terms have the respective  meanings set
forth below or set forth in the Section hereof following such term:

                  Acceptable  Consideration - means with respect to any Transfer
         of any  Property of the Company or a  Subsidiary,  cash  consideration,
         promissory notes or such other consideration (or any combination of the
         foregoing)  received by such Person in connection with such Transfer as
         is, in each case,  determined  by the Board of  Directors,  in its good
         faith  opinion,  to be in the  best  interests  of the  Company  and to
         reflect the Fair Market Value of such Property.  It is understood  that
         the Company's or such Subsidiary's acceptance of any such consideration
         in connection with such Transfer will constitute an investment and may,
         depending upon the form of such consideration,  constitute a Restricted
         Investment made by the Company or such Subsidiary.

                  Affiliate  -  means,  at any  time,  a  Person  (other  than a
Subsidiary):

                  (a)  that   directly  or   indirectly   through  one  or  more
         intermediaries  Controls,  or is  Controlled  by,  or is  under  common
         Control with, the Company;

                    (b) that  beneficially  owns or holds five  percent  (5%) or
               more of any class of the Voting Stock of the Company;

                  (c) five  percent  (5%) or more of the Voting Stock (or in the
         case of a Person that is not a  corporation,  five percent (5%) or more
         of the equity  interest) of which is beneficially  owned or held by the
         Company or a Subsidiary; or

                  (d)  that  is an  officer  or  director  (or a  member  of the
         immediate  family of an  officer  or  director)  of the  Company or any
         Subsidiary;

         at such time.

         As used in this definition:

                  Control - means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the
         power to direct or cause the direction of the  management  and policies
         of a Person,  whether  through the ownership of voting  securities,  by
         contract or otherwise.

         Agreement - means this  agreement,  as it may be amended  and  restated
from time to time.

         Applicable  Minimum  Denomination - means, at any time, with respect to
any Note, the product of:

                  (a)      Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000), multiplied by

                  (b)      the quotient of

                    (1)  the aggregate  principal amount of Notes outstanding at
                         such time, divided by

                    (2)  Sixty Million Dollars ($60,000,000);

provided that:

                  (A) If such Note was issued on the Closing Date in an original
         principal amount less than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) or if such
         Note was issued in  exchange  for a Note that was issued on the Closing
         Date in an original  principal  amount less than Five  Million  Dollars
         ($5,000,000)  (or was  issued as a result of any  number of  successive
         exchanges of Notes referred to in this clause (A)), then in determining
         the  Applicable  Minimum  Denomination  with respect to such Note there
         shall be  substituted  in clause  (a) of this  definition,  in place of
         "Five Million Dollars  ($5,000,000),"  the original principal amount of
         such Note issued on the Closing Date in such original  principal amount
         less than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000); and

                  (B) If two or more Notes are held or are  proposed  to be held
         by a single  Person,  and/or by two or more  Persons  that are Investor
         Affiliates of one another,  then the  Applicable  Minimum  Denomination
         with  respect  to each of  such  Notes  shall  be One  Million  Dollars
         ($1,000,000)  (except  as may be  necessary  to reflect  any  principal
         amount not evenly divisible by One Million Dollars ($1,000,000)).

         Board of Directors - means the board of directors of the Company or any
committee thereof that, in the instance, shall have the lawful power to exercise
the power and authority of such board of directors.

         Business  Day - means,  at any time,  a day other  than a  Saturday,  a
Sunday or a day on which the bank  designated by the holder of a Note to receive
(for such holder's account) payments on such Note is required by law (other than
a  general  banking  moratorium  or  holiday  for a  period  exceeding  four (4)
consecutive days) to be closed.

         Capital  Expenditures - means the costs of acquisition or  construction
of any asset that at the time of  acquisition  or  construction  has an expected
economic  useful life of more than one (1) year, and would be shown on a balance
sheet  (or  on  a  statement  of  financial   condition)  of  the  acquiring  or
constructing Person as an asset.

         Capital  Lease - means,  at any time, a lease with respect to which the
lessee is  required by GAAP to  recognize  the  acquisition  of an asset and the
incurrence of a liability at such time.

         Closing - Section 1.2.

         Closing Date - Section 1.2.

         Company - introductory paragraph hereof.

         Consolidated  Assets - means,  at any  time,  the  amount  at which the
assets of the  Company  and the  Subsidiaries  would be shown on a  consolidated
balance sheet (or on a  consolidated  statement of financial  condition) of such
Persons at such time after deduction of depreciation, amortization and all other
properly deductible valuation reserves.

         Consolidated Capitalization - means, at any time, the sum of

                  (a)      Consolidated Net Worth, plus

                  (b)      Consolidated Funded Debt,

in each case determined at such time.

         Consolidated Debt - means, at any time, the aggregate amount of Debt of
the  Company and the  Subsidiaries,  determined  at such time after  eliminating
intercompany transactions among the Company and the Subsidiaries.

         Consolidated Fixed Charges - means, for any period, the sum of

                  (a)      Consolidated Interest Expense for such period, plus

                  (b) the amount  payable in respect of such period with respect
         to  Operating  Rentals  payable by the  Company  and the  Subsidiaries,
         determined  after  eliminating  intercompany   transactions  among  the
         Company and the Subsidiaries.

         Consolidated  Funded Debt - means, at any time, the aggregate amount of
Funded Debt of the Company and the  Subsidiaries,  determined at such time after
eliminating intercompany transactions among the Company and the Subsidiaries.

         Consolidated  Interest Expense - means,  for any period,  the amount of
interest  accrued or capitalized on, or with respect to,  Consolidated  Debt for
such period,  including,  without  limitation,  amortization  of debt  discount,
imputed interest on Capital Leases and interest on the Notes.

         Consolidated Net Income - means, for any period, net earnings (or loss)
after  income  taxes  of the  Company  and  the  Subsidiaries,  determined  on a
consolidated basis for such Persons, but excluding:

                    (a) net earnings (or loss) of any  Subsidiary  accrued prior
               to the date it became a Subsidiary;

                    (b) any gain or loss (net of tax effects applicable thereto)
               resulting  from the  sale,  conversion  or other  disposition  of
               capital assets other than in the ordinary course of business;

                    (c) any  extraordinary,  unusual  or  nonrecurring  gains or
               losses;

                    (d) any gain  arising  from any  reappraisal  or write-up of
               assets;

                  (e) any portion of the net earnings of any Subsidiary that for
         any reason is unavailable  for payment of dividends to the Company or a
         Subsidiary;

                  (f) any gain or loss (net of tax effects  applicable  thereto)
         during such period  resulting  from the receipt of any  proceeds of any
         insurance policy;

                  (g) any earnings of any Person  acquired by the Company or any
         Subsidiary through purchase,  merger or consolidation or otherwise,  or
         earnings  of any Person  substantially  all of whose  assets  have been
         acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary,  for any period prior to the
         date of  acquisition,  provided  that the earnings  referred to in this
         clause (g) shall not be excluded in determining Consolidated Net Income
         for purposes of clause (a) of the definition of Consolidated  Operating
         Cash Flow;

                  (h) net earnings of any Person  (other than a  Subsidiary)  in
         which the Company or any  Subsidiary  shall have an ownership  interest
         unless  such net  earnings  shall have  actually  been  received by the
         Company or such Subsidiary in the form of cash distributions; and

                  (i) any  restoration  during  such  period  to  income  of any
         contingency  reserve,  except to the  extent  that  provision  for such
         reserve was made during such period out of income  accrued  during such
         period.

               Consolidated  Net Income  Before  Amortization  - means,  for any
               period, the sum of

                  (a)      Consolidated Net Income for such period, plus

                  (b) the aggregate  amount of  amortization  of intangibles (to
         the extent,  and only to the  extent,  that such  aggregate  amount was
         deducted  in the  computation  of  Consolidated  Net  Income  for  such
         period).

         Consolidated Net Worth - means, at any time, total shareholders' equity
as  would  be  shown  on a  consolidated  balance  sheet  (or on a  consolidated
statement of financial  condition) of the Company and the  Subsidiaries  at such
time.

         Consolidated Operating Cash Flow - means, for any period, the sum of:

                  (a)      Consolidated Net Income for such period, plus

                  (b)      the aggregate amount of:

                           (i)      Consolidated Fixed Charges, and

                           (ii)     income taxes, depreciation and amortization

         (to the extent, and only to the extent,  that such aggregate amount was
         deducted  in the  computation  of  Consolidated  Net  Income  for  such
         period).   Consolidated   Operating   Cash  Flow   shall  be   adjusted
         retroactively on a pro forma basis to give effect to the net income (as
         determined  in the same manner as  Consolidated  Net Income  hereunder)
         attributable  to any Person  acquired  or disposed of by the Company or
         any Subsidiary.

         Debt - means, with respect to any Person, without duplication:

                    (a) its  liabilities  for  borrowed  money  (whether  or not
               evidenced by a Security);

                  (b) any  liabilities  secured by any Lien existing on Property
         owned  by such  Person  (whether  or not  such  liabilities  have  been
         assumed);

                  (c)      its liabilities in respect of Capital Leases;

                  (d)  the  present   value  of  all   payments  due  under  any
         arrangement  for retention of title or any  conditional  sale agreement
         (other than a Capital Lease) discounted at the implicit rate, if known,
         with respect  thereto or, if unknown,  at eight percent (8%) per annum;
         and

                  (e)  its  Guaranties  of any  liabilities  of  another  Person
         constituting liabilities of a type set forth above.

         Default - means an event or condition  the  occurrence  of which would,
with the  lapse of time or the  giving  of  notice  or both,  become an Event of
Default.

         DOL - means the Department of Labor and any successor agency.

         Dollars or $ - means United States of America dollars.

         Environmental  Protection  Laws - means  any  federal,  state,  county,
regional or local law,  statute or regulation  (including,  without  limitation,
CERCLA,  RCRA and SARA) enacted in connection with or relating to the protection
or regulation of the environment,  including,  without  limitation,  those laws,
statutes and regulations regulating the disposal, removal, production,  storing,
refining,  handling,  transferring,  processing  or  transporting  of  Hazardous
Substances,  and any  regulations  issued or promulgated in connection with such
statutes by any  Governmental  Authority,  and any orders,  decrees or judgments
issued by any court of  competent  jurisdiction  in  connection  with any of the
foregoing.

         As used in this definition:

                  CERCLA  -  means  the  Comprehensive  Environmental  Response,
         Compensation,  and  Liability Act of 1980, as amended from time to time
         (by SARA or otherwise),  and all rules and  regulations  promulgated in
         connection therewith.

                  RCRA - means the  Resource  Conservation  and  Recovery Act of
         1976,  as  amended  from time to time,  and all  rules and  regulations
         promulgated in connection therewith.

                  SARA - means the Superfund  Amendments and Reauthorization Act
         of 1986,  as amended from time to time,  and all rules and  regulations
         promulgated in connection therewith.

         ERISA - means the Employee  Retirement  Income Security Act of 1974, as
amended from time to time.

         ERISA Affiliate - means any corporation or trade or business that:

                    (a) is a member of the same controlled group of corporations
               (within the meaning of section 414(b) of the IRC) as the Company;
               or

                    (b) is under common  control  (within the meaning of section
               414(c) of the IRC) with the Company.

         Event of Default - Section 8.1.

         Exchange Act - means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

         Excluded Transfers - Section 6.5.

         Fair Market Value - means,  at any time,  with respect to any Property,
the sale value of such Property that would be realized in an  arm's-length  sale
at such time between an informed  and willing  buyer and an informed and willing
seller under no compulsion to buy or sell, respectively.

         Foreign Pension Plan - means any plan, fund or other similar program.

                  (a) established or maintained  outside of the United States of
         America by any one or more of the Company or the Subsidiaries primarily
         for the benefit of the employees  (substantially all of whom are aliens
         not  residing  in the United  States of America) of the Company or such
         Subsidiaries  which plan,  fund or other similar  program  provides for
         retirement income for such employees or results in a deferral of income
         for such employees in contemplation of retirement, and

                  (b)      not otherwise subject to ERISA.

         Funded Debt - means, at any time of determination,  with respect to any
Person,  all Debt of such person that is  expressed  to mature more than one (1)
year from the date of the creation thereof or that is extendible or renewable at
the option of such Person to a time more than one (1) year after the date of the
creation  thereof  (whether  or not at such time of  determination  such Debt is
payable within one (1) year).

         GAAP - means accounting  principles as promulgated from time to time in
statements,  opinions and  pronouncements by the American Institute of Certified
Public  Accountants  and the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board and in such
statements,  opinions and  pronouncements of such other entities with respect to
financial   accounting  of  for-profit  entities  as  shall  be  accepted  by  a
substantial segment of the accounting profession in the United States.

         Governmental Authority - means:

                  (a)      the government of

                    (i) the  United  States  of  America  and any state or other
               political subdivision thereof, or

                           (ii) any other  jurisdiction (y) in which the Company
                  or any Subsidiary  conducts all or any part of its business of
                  (z) that asserts  jurisdiction over the conduct of the affairs
                  or Properties of the Company or any Subsidiary; and

                  (b) any entity exercising  executive,  legislative,  judicial,
         regulatory or  administrative  functions of, or pertaining to, any such
         government.

         Guaranty - means,  with respect to any Person (for the purposes of this
definition,  the  "Guarantor"),  any obligation  (except the  endorsement in the
ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection)
of the Guarantor  guaranteeing  or in effect  guaranteeing  (including,  without
limitation,  by  means of a surety  bond,  letter  of  credit  or other  similar
instrument,  whether  or  not  designated  as a  "guaranty")  any  indebtedness,
dividend or other obligation of any other Person (the "Primary  Obligor") in any
manner,   whether  directly  or  indirectly,   including,   without  limitation,
obligations  incurred  through an agreement,  contingent  or  otherwise,  by the
Guarantor:

                    (a) to  purchase  such  indebtedness  or  obligation  or any
               Property constituting security therefor;

                    (b) to advance or supply funds

                    (i) for the  purpose  of  payment  of such  indebtedness  or
               obligation, or

                    (ii) to maintain  working capital or other balance sheet (or
               statement  of  financial   condition)  condition  or  any  income
               statement  condition  of the  Primary  Obligor  or  otherwise  to
               advance or make  available  funds for the  purchase or payment of
               such indebtedness or obligation;

                  (c) to  lease  Property  or to  purchase  Securities  or other
         Property or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of
         such  indebtedness  or obligation of the ability of the Primary Obligor
         to make payment of the indebtedness or obligation; or

                  (d)  otherwise  to  assure  the owner of the  indebtedness  or
         obligation of the Primary Obligor against loss in respect thereof.

For purposes of  computing  the amount of any  Guaranty in  connection  with any
computation of  indebtedness  or other  liability,  it shall be assumed that the
indebtedness  or other  liabilities  that are the subject of such  Guaranty  are
direct  obligations  of the  issuer  of  such  Guaranty.  Without  limiting  the
generality  of the  foregoing,  it is agreed and  understood  that each  general
partner of a partnership  shall be deemed to be a Guarantor of all  indebtedness
and other  obligations of such partnership and such partnership  shall be deemed
to be the Primary Obligor in respect of such indebtedness and other obligations.
For purposes of the immediately  preceding sentence, a Person shall be deemed to
be a general  partner of any  so-called  "joint  venture"  or other  arrangement
(whether or not  constituting  a  partnership),  and such joint venture or other
arrangement shall be deemed to be a partnership, if, pursuant to applicable law,
by  contract  or  otherwise,  such  Person is liable,  directly  or  indirectly,
contingently or otherwise, either individually or jointly with one or more other
Persons,  for the  indebtedness  or other  obligations  of such joint venture or
other arrangement.

         Hazardous  Substances  - means  any and all  pollutants,  contaminants,
toxic or hazardous  wastes and any other  substances that might pose a hazard to
health or  safety,  the  removal  of which may be  required  or the  generation,
manufacture,  refining,  production,  processing,  treatment, storage, handling,
transportation,  transfer, use, disposal, release, discharge,  spillage, seepage
or  filtration  of  which  is or  shall  be,  in  each of the  foregoing  cases,
restricted, prohibited or penalized by any applicable law.

         Institutional Investor - means the Purchasers,  any affiliate of any of
the Purchasers,  any holder or beneficial  owner of Notes that is an "accredited
investor" as defined in section 2(15) of the  Securities Act and or a "qualified
institutional buyer" as defined in 17 C.F.R.  ss.230.144A,  as amended from time
to time.

                    Investment  -  means  any  investment,  made  in  cash or by
               delivery of Property, by the Company or any Subsidiary:

                  (a)  in  any  Person,   whether  by   acquisition   of  stock,
         indebtedness  or other  obligation or Security,  or by loan,  Guaranty,
         advance, capital contribution or otherwise; or

                  (b)      in any Property.

Investments  shall be valued at cost less any net return of capital  through the
sale or liquidation thereof or other return of capital thereon.

         Investor  Affiliate - means, at any time, with respect to any holder or
proposed holder of Notes, any Person that directly or indirectly  through one or
more  intermediaries  Controls,  or is Controlled by, or is under common Control
with, such holder or proposed holder.

         As used in this definition:

                  Control - means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the
         power to direct or cause the direction of the  management  and policies
         of a Person (including, without limitation, the management and policies
         of the  investment  of  assets of such  Person),  whether  through  the
         ownership  of voting  securities,  by  contract or  otherwise.  Without
         limitation  of the  foregoing,  any  separate  account of an  insurance
         company shall be deemed to be Controlled by such insurance company.

         IRC - means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,  together with all rules
and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, as amended from time to time.

         IRS - means the Internal Revenue Service and any successor agency.

         Lien - means any interest in Property  securing an obligation  owed to,
or a claim by, a Person  other  than the  owner of the  Property,  whether  such
interest is based on the common law, statute or contract, and including, but not
limited to, the security  interest  lien  arising from a mortgage,  encumbrance,
pledge,  conditional  sale,  sale with recourse or a trust receipt,  or a lease,
consignment or bailment for security purposes. The term "Lien" includes, without
limitation, reservations,  exceptions, encroachments,  easements, rights-of-way,
covenants,  conditions,  restrictions,  leases and other  title  exceptions  and
encumbrances  affecting  real Property and includes,  without  limitation,  with
respect to stock,  stockholder  agreements,  voting trust  agreements,  buy-back
agreements and all similar  arrangements.  For the purposes hereof,  the Company
and each  Subsidiary  shall be deemed to be the  owner of any  Property  that it
shall have acquired or holds subject to a conditional  sale  agreement,  Capital
Lease or other  arrangement  pursuant  to which title to the  Property  has been
retained  by or vested in some other  Person  for  security  purposes,  and such
retention or vesting is deemed a Lien. The term "Lien" does not include negative
pledge clauses in agreements relating to the borrowing of money.

         Make-Whole  Amount - means,  with  respect  to any date (a  "Prepayment
Date") and any principal amount ("Prepaid  Principal") of Notes required for any
reason to be paid  prior to the  regularly  scheduled  maturity  thereof on such
Prepayment Date, the greater of

                  (a)      Zero Dollars ($0), and

                  (b) (i) the sum of the  present  values of the then  remaining
         scheduled  payments of principal  and interest that would be payable in
         respect  of  such  Prepaid   Principal  but  for  such   prepayment  or
         acceleration, minus

                           (ii)     the sum of

                    (A)  the amount of such Prepaid Principal, plus

                    (B)  the  amount  of  interest   accrued  on  such   Prepaid
                         Principal  since the  scheduled  interest  payment date
                         immediately preceding such Prepayment Date.

In  determining  such present  values,  a discount rate equal to the  Make-Whole
Discount Rate with respect to such Prepayment Date and Prepaid Principal divided
by two (2),  and a discount  period of six (6) months to thirty  (30) days each,
shall be used.

         As used in this definition:

               Make-Whole  Discount Rate - means, with respect to any Prepayment
               Date and Prepaid Principal, the sum of

                  (a) the per annum  percentage  rate  (rounded  to the  nearest
         three (3) decimal places) equal to the (i) yields reported, as of 10:00
         A.M.  (New York City time) on the second  Business  Day  preceding  the
         Prepayment  Date with respect to such Prepaid  Principal on the display
         designated  as the  "USD  Screen"  on the  Bloomberg  Financial  Market
         Service  (or  such  other  screen  as may  replace  the USD  Screen  on
         Bloomberg  Financial Market Service) for actively traded U.S.  Treasury
         securities  having a maturity  equal to the  Weighted  Average  Life to
         Maturity of such Prepaid  Principal as of such Prepayment Date, or (ii)
         if such yields are not reported as of such time or the yields  reported
         as of such time are not  ascertainable,  the yield to maturity  derived
         from the  annual  yield  to  maturity  of the  United  States  Treasury
         obligation listed in the Applicable H.15 as of such Prepayment Date for
         the then most  recently  available day in such  Applicable  H.15 with a
         Treasury  Constant  Maturity (as defined in such Applicable H.15) equal
         to the  Weighted  Average  Life to Maturity of such  Prepaid  Principal
         determined as of such Prepayment Date, plus

                  (b)  forty  one-hundredths  percent  (0.40%)  per  annum.  For
         purposes of clause (a) of the preceding  sentence,  if no United States
         Treasury  obligation with a Treasury  Constant  Maturity  corresponding
         exactly  to the  Weighted  Average  Life to  Maturity  of such  Prepaid
         Principal is listed, the yields for the two (2) published United States
         Treasury  obligation  with Treasury  Constant  Maturities  most closely
         corresponding to such Weighted Average Life to Maturity (one (1) with a
         longer  maturity  and one (1) with a shorter  maturity,  if  available)
         shall be calculated pursuant to the immediately  preceding sentence and
         the Make-Whole Discount Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from
         such yields on a straight-line basis.

                  Applicable  H.15 - means,  at any time,  United States Federal
         Reserve Statistical Release H.15(519) or its successor publication then
         most  recently  published  and  available  to the public or, if no such
         successor  publication  is available,  then any other source of current
         information  in respect of interest  rates on  securities of the United
         States of America that is generally  available  and, in the judgment of
         the Required Holders, provides information reasonably comparable to the
         H.15(519) report.

                  Weighted Average Life to Maturity - means, with respect to any
         Prepayment Date and Prepaid Principal,  the number of years obtained by
         dividing  the  Remaining   Dollar-Years   of  such  Prepaid   Principal
         determined on such Prepayment Date by such Prepaid Principal.

                  Remaining Dollar-Years - means, with respect to any Prepayment
         Date and Prepaid Principal, the result obtained by

                  (a)  multiplying,  in the  case of each  required  payment  of
         principal  (including  payment  at  maturity)  that would be payable in
         respect of such Prepaid Principal but for such prepayment,

                    (i) an amount equal to such  required  payment of principal,
               by

                           (ii) the number of years  (calculated  to the nearest
                  one-twelfth  (1/12) that will elapse  between such  Prepayment
                  Date and the date such required principal payment would be due
                  if such Prepaid Principal had not be so prepaid, and

                  (b)  calculating  the sum of each of the products  obtained in
the preceding subsection (a).

         Mandatory Principal Amortization Payments - Section 4.1.

         Margin   Security  -  means  "margin   stock"  within  the  meaning  of
Regulations T, U and X of the Board of Governors of the Federal  Reserve System,
12 C.F.R., Chapter II, as amended from time to time.

         Material  Adverse  Effect  - means a  material  adverse  effect  on the
business,  profits,  Properties  or condition  (financial  or  otherwise) of the
Company and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or on the ability of the Company
to perform its obligations set forth herein and in the Notes.

         Multiemployer  Plan - means any  "multiemployer  plan" (as  defined  in
section 3 of ERISA) in respect of which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate is an
"employer" (as defined in section 3 of ERISA).

         Note Purchase Agreements - Section 1.2.

         Notes - Section 1.1.

         Offering Memorandum - Section 2.1.

         Operating  Lease - means,  with respect to any Person,  any lease other
than a Capital Lease.

     Operating Rentals - means all fixed payments that the lessee is required to
make by the terms of any Operating Lease.

         OSHA - means the Occupational  Safety and Health Act of 1970,  together
with all rules,  regulations and standards  promulgated pursuant thereto, all as
amended from time to time.

         PBGC - means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and any successor
corporation or governmental agency.

         Pension Plan - means, at any time, any "employee  pension benefit plan"
(as defined in section 3 of ERISA) maintained at such time by the Company or any
ERISA Affiliate for employees of the Company of such ERISA Affiliate,  excluding
any Multiemployer Plan.

         Person  -  means  an  individual,  sole  proprietorship,   partnership,
corporation,  trust, joint venture, unincorporated organization, or a government
or agency or political subdivision thereof.

         Placement Agent - means William Blair & Company, L.L.C.

         Preferred  Stock - means any class of  capital  stock of a  corporation
that is preferred  over any other class of capital stock of such  corporation as
to the payment of  dividends  or the payment of any amount upon  liquidation  or
dissolution of such corporation.

         Property - means any interest in any kind of property or asset, whether
real, personal or mixed, and whether tangible or intangible.

         Purchase  Money Lien - means a Lien held by any Person  (whether or not
the seller of such  Property) on tangible  Property (or a group of related items
of  Property  the  substantial  portion  of  which  are  tangible)  acquired  or
constructed  by the  Company  or any  Subsidiary,  which Lien  secures  all or a
portion of the related  purchase price or  construction  costs of such Property,
provided that such Lien

               (a) is created contemporaneously with, or within thirty (30) days
          of, such acquisition or construction,

                  (b) encumbers only Property purchased or constructed after the
         Closing  Date and  acquired  with  the  proceeds  of the  Debt  secured
         thereby, and

                  (c)      is not thereafter extended to any other Property.

         Purchasers  - means  the  purchasers  of the Notes set forth in Annex 1
hereto.

         Required  Holders  -  means,  at any  time,  the  holders  of at  least
fifty-one percent (51%) in principal amount of the Notes at any time outstanding
(exclusive of Notes then owned by any one or more of the Company, any Subsidiary
and any Affiliate).

         Restricted  Investment - means, at any time, all Investments except the
following:

                    (a)  Investments  in  Property  to be used  in the  ordinary
               course of business of the Company and the Subsidiaries;

                  (b)  Investments  in current  assets  arising from the sale of
         goods and  services in the  ordinary  course of business of the Company
         and the Subsidiaries;

                  (c) Investments in one or more Subsidiaries or any corporation
         that concurrently with such Investment becomes a Subsidiary;

                  (d)  Investments  in direct  obligations  of,  or  obligations
         guarantied by, the United States of America or any agency of the United
         States of America the  obligations of which agency carry the full faith
         and  credit  of the  United  States  of  America,  provided  that  such
         obligations  mature  within  one (1) year from the date of  acquisition
         thereof;

                  (e)  Investments in negotiable  certificates of deposit issued
         by commercial  banks  organized  under the laws of the United States of
         America or any state  thereof,  having  capital,  surplus and undivided
         profits   aggregating  at  least  Two  Hundred  Fifty  Million  Dollars
         ($250,000,000)  and the long-term  unsecured debt  obligations  (or the
         long-term unsecured debt obligations of the bank holding company owning
         all of the capital  stock of such bank) of which are rate "A" or higher
         by Standard & Poor's Corporation or "A2" or higher by Moody's Investors
         Service,  provided that such  certificates of deposit mature within one
         (1) year from the date of acquisition thereof;

                  (f)  Investments in commercial  paper rated "A-1" or higher by
         Standard & Poor's  Corporation or "P-1" or higher by Moody's  Investors
         Service,  provided  that such  obligations  mature  within two  hundred
         seventy (270) days from the date or creation thereof; and

                  (f)  Investments  in any obligation of any state of the United
         States of America or any municipality  thereof rated "BBB" or higher by
         Standard & Poor's  Corporation or "Baa" or higher by Moody's  Investors
         Service, provided that such obligations mature within one (1) year from
         the date of acquisition thereof.

         Restricted Payment - means:

                  (a) any dividend or other distribution, direct or indirect, on
         account of any shares of capital stock of the Company or any Subsidiary
         (other than on account of capital  stock of a Subsidiary  owned legally
         and  beneficially  by the Company or a Wholly-Owned  Subsidiary) now or
         hereafter  outstanding,  whether  in cash or other  Property,  except a
         dividend or other distribution payable solely in shares of common stock
         of such Person; and

                  (b) any redemption, retirement, purchase or other acquisition,
         direct or  indirect,  of any shares of capital  stock of the Company or
         any Subsidiary  (other than on account of capital stock of a Subsidiary
         owned  legally  and  beneficially  by  the  Company  or a  Wholly-Owned
         Subsidiary) now or hereafter outstanding, or of any warrants, rights or
         options to acquire any shares of such stock.

         Securities Act - means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

         Security  -  means  "security"  as  defined  in  section  2(1)  of  the
Securities Act.

         Senior  Financial  Officer  - means the chief  financial  officer,  the
principal accounting officer, the controller or the treasurer of the Company.

     Senior Officer - means the chief  executive  officer,  the president or the
chief financial officer of the Company.

         Subsidiary  - means,  at any time, a  corporation  of which the Company
owns, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) (by number of votes)
of each class of the Voting Stock at such time.

         Subsidiary Stock - Section 6.5.

         Surviving Corporation - Section 6.6.

         Total Subsidiary Debt - means, at any time,  without  duplication,  the
aggregate amount of Debt and Preferred Stock of the Subsidiaries,  determined at
such time after eliminating intercompany  transactions among the Company and the
Subsidiaries.

         Transfers - Section 6.5.

         Voting  Stock - means  capital  stock  of any  class  or  classes  of a
corporation   the   holders  of  which  are   ordinarily,   in  the  absence  of
contingencies,  entitled to elect  corporate  directors  (or Persons  performing
similar functions).

         Wholly-Owned  Subsidiary  - means,  at any  time,  any  Subsidiary  one
hundred  percent  (100%)  of all of the  equity  Securities  (except  directors'
qualifying  shares) and voting  Securities of which are owned by, and all of the
Debt  of  which  is held  by,  any one or  more  of the  Company  and the  other
Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries at such time.

         9.2.     GAAP.

         Where the  character  or amount  of any asset or  liability  or item of
income or expense,  or any  consolidation  or other  accounting  computation  is
required  to be made for any  purpose  hereunder,  it  shall,  unless  otherwise
specified,  be done in accordance with GAAP, provided,  that if any term defined
herein  includes  or  excludes  amounts,  items or  concepts  that  would not be
included in or excluded  from such term if such term was defined with  reference
solely to GAAP,  such term will be deemed to include or  exclude  such  amounts,
items or concepts as set forth herein.

         9.3.     Directly or Indirectly.

         Where any provision  herein refers to action to be taken by any Person,
or that  such  Person  is  prohibited  from  taking,  such  provision  shall  be
applicable  whether such action is taken  directly or indirectly by such Person,
including  actions taken by or on behalf of any partnership in which such Person
is a general partner.

         9.4.     Section Headings and Table of Contents and Construction.

                  (a) Section Headings and Table of Contents, etc. The titles of
         the Sections of this  Agreement and Table of Contents of this Agreement
         appear as a matter of convenience only, do not constitute a part hereof
         and shall not  affect  the  construction  hereof.  The words  "herein,"
         "hereof,"  "hereunder," and "hereto" refer to this Agreement as a whole
         and  not  to  any  particular  Section  or  other  subdivision.  Unless
         otherwise  specified,  references  to Sections  are to Sections of this
         Agreement,  references to Annexes are to Annexes to this  Agreement and
         references to Exhibits are to Exhibit to this Agreement.

                  (b)  Construction.  Each  covenant  contained  herein shall be
         construed  (absent  an  express  contrary  provision  herein)  as being
         independent of each other  covenant  contained  herein,  and compliance
         with any one  covenant  shall  not  (absent  such an  express  contrary
         provision)  be  deemed  to  excuse  compliance  with one or more  other
         covenants.

         9.5.     Governing Law.

         THIS  AGREEMENT  AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND  CONSTRUED AND
ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, INTERNAL ILLINOIS LAW.

10.      MISCELLANEOUS

         10.1.    Communications.

                  (a) Method; Address. All communications hereunder or under the
         Notes shall be in writing,  shall be (y) hand  delivered  or  deposited
         into the United States mail  (registered  or certified  mail),  postage
         prepaid and (z) sent by overnight courier or by facsimile transmission,
         and shall be addressed,

                           (i)      if to the Company,

                                    Littelfuse, Inc.
                                    800 East Northwest Highway
                                    Des Plaines, Illinois  60016
                                    Attention:  Chief Financial Officer
                                    Facsimile:  (847) 824-3864

     or at such other address as the Company shall have  furnished in writing to
     all holders of the Notes at the time outstanding, and

                           (ii)     If to any of the holders of the Notes.

                                    (A) If such holders are the  Purchasers,  at
                           their respective  addresses set forth on Annex 1, and
                           further  including any parties referred to on Annex 1
                           that are  required to receive  notices in addition to
                           such holders of the Notes, and

                                    (B) If such holders are not the  Purchasers,
                           at  their  respective  addresses  set  forth  in  the
                           register for the  registration  and transfer of Notes
                           maintained pursuant to Section 6.13,

         or to any such party at such other  address as such party may designate
         by  notice  duly  given in  accordance  with this  Section  10.1 to the
         Company (which other address shall be entered in such register).

                  (b) When Given.  Any  communication so addressed and deposited
         in the United States mail, postage prepaid,  by registered or certified
         mail (in each case, with return receipt  requested)  shall be deemed to
         be received on the third (3rd) succeeding Business Day after the day of
         such  deposit  (not   including   the  date  of  such   deposit).   Any
         communication  so addressed and otherwise  delivered shall be deemed to
         be received when actually received at the address of the addressee.

                  (c)  Certificates,  etc.  Whenever  under this  Agreement  any
         certificate  or other  writing  is given by any  director,  officer  or
         employee of the Company or any  Subsidiary,  such  certificate of other
         writing  shall be  delivered by such  director,  officer or employee on
         behalf of the Company or such Subsidiary in his or her capacity as such
         director,  officer  or  employee,  and  not in  his  or her  individual
         capacity.

         10.2.    Reproduction of Documents.

     This  Agreement  and all  documents  relating  hereto,  including,  without
     limitation,

               (a)  consents,  waivers and  modifications  that may hereafter be
          executed,

               (b) documents  received by you at the closing of your purchase of
          the Notes (except the Notes themselves), and

               (c)  financial  statements,  certificates  and other  information
          previously or hereafter furnished to you or any other holder of Notes,

may be  reproduced  by any  holder  of Notes by any  photographic,  photostatic,
microfilm,  microcard, miniature photographic,  digital or other similar process
and each holder of Notes may destroy any original  document so  reproduced.  The
Company agrees and stipulates that any such reproduction  shall be admissible in
evidence as the  original  itself in any judicial or  administrative  proceeding
(whether  or  not  the  original  is  in  existence  and  whether  or  not  such
reproduction was made by such holder of Notes in the regular course of business)
and that any enlargement, facsimile or further reproduction of such reproduction
shall  likewise be  admissible  in evidence.  Nothing in this Section 10.2 shall
prohibit the Company or any holder of Notes from  contesting the validity or the
accuracy of any such reproduction.

         10.3.    Survival.

         All warranties,  representations,  certifications and covenants made by
the Company herein or in any certificate or other instrument  delivered by it or
on its behalf  hereunder shall be considered to have been relied upon by you and
shall survive the delivery to you of the Notes  regardless of any  investigation
made by you or on your behalf.  All statements in any such  certificate or other
instrument  shall  constitute  warranties  and  representations  by the  Company
hereunder.

         10.4.    Successors and Assigns.

         This  Agreement  shall inure to the benefit of and be binding  upon the
successors and assigns of each of the parties hereto.  The provisions hereof are
intended to be for the benefit of all holders,  from time to time, of Notes, and
shall be enforceable by any such holder, whether or not an express assignment to
such holder of rights hereunder shall have been made by you or your successor or
assign.

         10.5.    Amendment and Waiver.

                  (a)  Requirements.  This  Agreement  may be  amended,  and the
         observance  of any term hereof may be waived,  with (and only with) the
         written consent of the Company and the Required Holders;  provided that
         no such  amendment  or waiver  of any of the  provisions  of  Section 1
         through Section 4, inclusive,  or any defined term used therein,  shall
         be  effective  as to any holder of Notes  unless  consented  to by such
         holder in writing;  and  provided  further  that no such  amendment  or
         waiver shall,  without the written  consent of the holders of all Notes
         (exclusive  of  Notes  held  by  the  Company,  any  Subsidiary  or any
         Affiliate) at the time outstanding,

                           (i)  subject to Section 8,  change the amount or time
                  of any prepayment or payment of principal or Make-Whole Amount
                  or the rate or time of payment of interest,

                           (ii)     amend Section 8,

                           (iii)    amend the definition of Required Holders, or

                           (iv) amend this Section 10.5.

                  (b)      Solicitation of Noteholders.

                           (i)  Solicitation.  The  Company  shall not  solicit,
                  request  or  negotiate  for or with  respect  to any  proposed
                  waiver or  amendment  of any of the  provisions  hereof or the
                  Notes  unless  each holder of the Notes  (irrespective  of the
                  amount of Notes  then  owned by it) shall be  provided  by the
                  Company with  sufficient  information  to enable it to make an
                  informed  decision with respect thereto.  Executed or true and
                  correct copies of any waiver or consent  effected  pursuant to
                  the  provisions of this Section 10.5 shall be delivered by the
                  Company  to  each  holder  of  outstanding  Notes  immediately
                  following  the date on which the same shall have been executed
                  and delivered by all holders of outstanding  Notes required to
                  consent or agree to such waiver or consent.

                           (ii)  Payment.  The  Company  shall not,  directly or
                  indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any remuneration,  whether
                  by  way  of  supplemental  or  additional  interest,   fee  or
                  otherwise,  or grant any  security,  to any holder of Notes as
                  consideration  for or as an inducement to the entering into by
                  any holder of Notes of any waiver or  amendment  of any of the
                  terms  and  provisions  hereof  unless  such  remuneration  is
                  concurrently paid, or security is concurrently granted, on the
                  same  terms,   ratably  to  the  holders  of  all  Notes  then
                  outstanding.

                           (iii) Scope of Consent.  Any consent made pursuant to
                  this Section 10.5 by a holder of Notes that has transferred or
                  has  agreed  to  transfer  its  Notes  to  the  Company,   any
                  Subsidiary  or any Affiliate and has provided or has agreed to
                  provide such written  consent as a condition to such  transfer
                  shall be void and of no force and effect  except  solely as to
                  such holder, and any amendments effected or waivers granted or
                  to be  effected  or granted  that would not have been or would
                  not be so effected or granted  but for such  consent  (and the
                  consents  of all other  holders  of Notes  that were  acquired
                  under the same or similar  conditions) shall be void and of no
                  force and effect,  retroactive  to the date such  amendment or
                  waiver  initially  took or takes  effect,  except solely as to
                  such holder.

                  (c)   Binding   Effect.   Except  as   provided   in   Section
         10.5(b)(iii),  any amendment or waiver consented to as provided in this
         Section  10.5 shall apply  equally to all holders of Notes and shall be
         binding upon them and upon each future  holder of any Note and upon the
         Company  whether or not such Note shall  have been  marked to  indicate
         such  amendment or waiver.  No such amendment or waiver shall extend to
         or affect  any  obligation,  covenant,  agreement,  Default or Event of
         Default not expressly  amended or waived or impair any right consequent
         thereon.

                  (d) Expenses. The Company shall pay when billed the reasonable
         expenses  relating to the  consideration,  negotiation,  preparation or
         execution  of any  amendments,  waivers  or  consents  pursuant  to the
         provisions hereof (except that the Company shall not be required to pay
         the  allocated  cost of your  counsel  who are your  employees  or your
         affiliates' employees),  whether or not any such amendments, waivers or
         consents are executed.

         10.6.    Payments on Notes.

                  (a)  Manner of  Payment.  The  Company  shall pay all  amounts
         payable with  respect to each Note  (without  any  presentment  of such
         Notes and without any notation of such payment  being made  thereon) by
         crediting,  by federal  funds bank wire  transfer,  the  account of the
         holder  thereof in any bank in the  United  States of America as may be
         designated in writing by such holder, or in such other manner as may be
         reasonably  directed or to such other  address in the United  States of
         America as may be  reasonably  designated  in  writing by such  holder.
         Annex 1 shall be deemed to constitute notice,  direction or designation
         (as  appropriate) to the Company with respect to payments as aforesaid.
         In the absence of such  written  direction,  all amounts  payable  with
         respect to each Note shall be paid by check mailed and addressed to the
         registered  holder of such Note at the  address  shown in the  register
         maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 5.1.

                  (b) Payments  Due on Holidays.  If any payment due on, or with
         respect  to,  any Notes  shall  fall due on a day other than a Business
         Day,  then such payment  shall be made on the first (1st)  Business Day
         following  the day on which  such  payment  shall  have so fallen  due,
         provided  that if all or any portion of such payment shall consist of a
         payment of interest,  for purposes of calculating  such interest,  such
         payment shall be deemed to have been originally due on such first (1st)
         following  Business Day,  such interest  shall accrue and be payable to
         (but not  including)  the actual  date of payment and the amount of the
         next succeeding interest payment shall be adjusted accordingly.

                  (c)  Payments,  When  Received.  Any payment to be made to the
         holders of Notes  hereunder  or under the Notes shall be deemed to have
         been made on the Business Day such payment actually  becomes  available
         to such holder at such holder's bank prior to 11:00 a.m. (local time of
         such bank).

         10.7.    Entire Agreement; Severability.

         This Agreement  constitutes the final written  expression of all of the
terms hereof and is a complete and exclusive  statement of those terms.  In case
any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement or in any Note, or
any  application  thereof,  shall be invalid,  illegal or  unenforceable  in any
respect,  the validity,  legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions
contained herein and therein,  and any other application  thereof,  shall not in
any way be affected or impaired thereby.

         10.8.    Duplicate Originals, Execution in Counterpart.

         Two  (2) or  more  duplicate  originals  hereof  may be  signed  by the
parties,  each of which shall be an  original  but all of which  together  shall
constitute one and the same instrument. This Agreement may be executed in one or
more  counterparts  and shall be effective when at least one  counterpart  shall
have been  executed by each party  hereto,  and each set of  counterparts  that,
collectively, show execution by each party hereto shall constitute one duplicate
original.

      [Remainder of page intentionally blank; next page is signature page.]


<PAGE>




         If this Agreement is satisfactory to you, please so indicate by signing
the  acceptance  at  the  foot  of  a  counterpart  hereof  and  returning  such
counterpart  to the Company,  whereupon  this  Agreement  shall  become  binding
between us in accordance with its terms.

                                                              Very truly yours,

                                                              LITTELFUSE, INC.



                                            By:      _________________________
                                            Name:    _________________________
                                            Title:   _________________________


<PAGE>


The foregoing is agreed to as of the date hereof.


PRINCIPAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY


By: ___________________________________
Name:
Title:


NATIONWIDE LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY


By: ___________________________________
Name:
Title:


AMERICAN FAMILY LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY


By: ___________________________________
Name:
Title:


TMG LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY


By: ___________________________________
Name:
Title:

By: ___________________________________
Name:
Title:


BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY


By: ___________________________________
Name:
Title:



<PAGE>



                                     ANNEX 1

                                     ANNEX 1


<TABLE>

                                           INFORMATION AS TO PURCHASERS


                                                                           Principal Amount of
Name and Address of Purchaser                                               Notes to be Purchased

<S>                                                               <C>                               
PRINCIPAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY                                  $26,900,000 (general account note)
711 High Street                                                    $1,500,000 (general account note)
Des Moines, IA 50392-0800                                          $4,600,000 (separate account note)
Attention:  Investment Department -
Securities Division
Ref:  Bond No. 61760
</TABLE>

All notices with respect to the Notes, except with respect to payment, should be
sent to the address above.

All notices with respect to payments on the Notes should be sent to:

         Principal Life Insurance Company
         711 High Street
         Des Moines, IA 50392-0960
         Attention:  Investment Accounting - Securities
         [Telefacsimile: (515) 248-2643
         Confirmation:  (515) 247-0689]
         Ref: Bond No. 61760

All payments  with respect to the two general  account Notes are to be made by a
wire transfer of immediately available funds to:

         Norwest Bank Iowa, N.A.
         7th & Walnut Streets
         Des Moines, IA 50309
         ABA No.: 073 000 228

         For credit to Principal Life Insurance Company,
         Account No.014752, Reference:
         OBI PFGSE(S)B0061760()
         Tax Identification Number:  42-0127290

All payments with respect to the separate  account Note are to be made by a wire
transfer of immediately available funds to:

         Norwest Bank Iowa, N.A.
         7th & Walnut Streets
         Des Moines, IA 50309
         ABA No.: 073 000 228

         For credit to Principal Life Insurance Company,
         Separate Account No.032395, Reference:
         OBI PFGSE(S)B0061760()
         Tax Identification Number:  42-0127290



<PAGE>

<TABLE>


                                                                                     Principal Amount of
Name and Address of Purchaser                                                        Notes to be Purchased

<S>                                                                                 <C>        
NATIONWIDE LIFE INSURANCE                                                           $13,000,000
     COMPANY
One Nationwide Plaza
Columbus, Ohio 43215-2220

Send notices and communications to:

         Nationwide Life Insurance Company
         One Nationwide Plaza (1-33-07)
         Columbus, Ohio  43215-2220
         Attention:  Corporate Fixed-Income Securities
</TABLE>

Wiring Instructions:

         The Bank of New York
         ABA #021-000-018
         BNF:  IOC566
         F/A/O Nationwide Life Insurance Company
         Attn:  P & I Department
         PPN#  537008 B * 4
         Security Description: Littelfuse, Inc.
                                      6.16% Senior Notes due
                                      September 1, 2005

         All notices of payment on or in respect to the security  should be sent
         to:

         Nationwide Life Insurance Company
         c/o The Bank of New York
         PO Box 19266
         Attn:  P & I Department
         Newark, NJ  07195

         With a copy to:

         Nationwide Life Insurance Company
         Attn:  Investment Accounting
         One Nationwide Plaza (1-32-05)
         Columbus, Ohio  43215-2220

         The original note should be  registered in the name of Nationwide  Life
         Insurance Company and delivered to:

         The Bank of New York
         One Wall Street
         3rd Floor - Window A
         New York, NY  10286
         F/A/O Nationwide Life Insurance Co. Acct. #267829


Tax ID #31-4156830


<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                                                                     Principal Amount of
Name and Address of Purchaser                                                        Notes to be Purchased

<S>                                                                                 <C>       
AMERICAN FAMILY LIFE INSURANCE                                                      $6,000,000
     COMPANY
600 American Parkway
Madison, WI  53783-0001
Attn:  Investment Division - Private Placements
</TABLE>

Number of Notes/Denominations:

$6,000,000

Payments:

All  Payments  on or in  respect  of the  Notes to be by bank wire  transfer  of
Federal or other immediately  available funds. Each such wire transfer shall set
forth the name of the  Company,  the full title  (including  the coupon rate and
final  maturity  date) of the  Notes,  and the due date  and  application  among
principal and interest of the payment being made. Payment shall be made to:

         Firstar Bank Milwaukee, N.A.
         Account of Firstar Trust Company
         ABA #075000022
         For Credit To Account #112-950-027
         Trust Account #000018012500 for Life Portfolio
         Attn:  Accounting Department

Notices:

         All notices  and  communications,  including  notices  with  respect to
         payments and written  confirmation of such payment as well as quarterly
         and annual financial statements, be addressed as first provided above.

Nominee Name in which Notes are to be registered:

         BAND & Co.

Delivery of Notes:

         Send special delivery by overnight carrier to:

         Firstar Bank of Madison
         1 South Pinckney Street
         Madison, WI  53703
         Attn:  Business Custody

In addition, a specimen copy of each Note should be sent to American Family Life
Insurance Company as
addressed above.

Tax ID #39-6040365


<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                                                                       Principal Amount of
Name and Address of Purchaser                                                        Notes to be Purchased

<S>                                                                                  <C>                                         
TMG LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY $5,000,000 c/o The Mutual Group (U.S.), Inc.
401 North Executive Drive, Suite 300
Brookfield, WI  53008-0503
Attention:  Connie Keller
Phone:  (414) 641-4022
Facsimile:  (414) 641-4055
</TABLE>

All payments on account of the Notes shall be made by wire or intrabank transfer
of immediately available funds to:

Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A.
ABA#  091000019
BNF:  A/C:  0840245
BNF:  Trust Clearing Account
REF: ATTN:  Income Collections
TRUST ACCOUNT:  13075700
Littelfuse, Inc.  PPN: 537008 B * 4

All notices in respect of payment shall be delivered to:

TMG Life Insurance Company
c/o The Mutual Group (U.S.), Inc.
Attn:  Tamie Greenwood
401 North Executive Drive, Suite 300
Brookfield, WI 53008-0503
Telephone:  (414) 641-4027
Facsimile:  (414) 641-4055

All other communications shall be delivered to:

TMG Life Insurance Company
c/o The Mutual Group (U.S.), Inc.
401 North Executive Drive, Suite 300
Brookfield, WI 53008-0503
Telephone:  (414) 641-4027
Facsimile:  (414) 641-4055

Name of Nominee in which Notes are to be issued:  TMG Life Insurance Company

Taxpayer I.D. Number:  #45-0208990

     Please  Note:TMG  Life  Insurance  Company  requires TWO  signatures on all
     signature pages.



<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                                                                       Principal Amount of
Name and Address of Purchaser                                                        Notes to be Purchased

<S>                                                                                 <C>       
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE                                                           $3,000,000
     COMPANY

INSTITUTION OR INSTITUTIONAL ADVISOR             ACCOUNT SET UP INFORMATION

Address                                       Beneficial Life Insurance Co/BLIC
                                               Attn:  Ken Steiner
                                                      36 S. State
                                                      Salt Lake City, UT 84316

Investment Advisor/Phone                     Bruce Cundick        (801) 933-1279
                                             Sterling Russell     (801) 933-1239
                                             Mark Siddoway        (801) 933-1238


Investment Advisor Operations Officer/Phone  Ken Steiner          (801) 933-1291
                                             Susan Denton         (801) 933-1279


Investment Advisor Fax Copies Phone          Kathy Grange         (801) 531-3315
</TABLE>


<TABLE>


SETTLEMENT INSTRUCTIONS

                                                             <C>                                                   
<S>  <C>                                                                                                                 
1.   Delivery instructions for Depository Eligible           Settle at Depository Trust Company of New York (DTC-NY)
     Securities settling in Next Day Funds                   (See Security Trade Coding below for details)

2.   Delivery Instructions for Depository Eligible           Same as #1 above
     Securities settling in Same Day Funds

3.   Delivery Instructions for Securities settling thru      Zions First National Bank - Salt Lake City
     Fed Book Entry System.                                  Fed Wire #1240-0005-4
                                                             Zions SLC/CUST For the Account of Deseret Trust Co.
                                                             (801) 524-4640

4.   Delivery Instructions for Securities settling at        Deliver to PTC for ZDES
     Participants Trust Company (PTC)                        Confirm with Deseret Trust Co. - Annette/Irene
                                                             (801) 363-2992

5.   Delivery Instructions for Securities not Eligible for United Missouri Trust
     Company of New York Settlement at Depository Trust Company, New York or One
     Battery Park Plaza, 8th Floor thru Fed Book Entry System New York, NY 10004
                                                             (212) 968-1990
                                                             for the account of Zions First National Bank
                                                              Account #69-0180-00-5

Contact at Deseret Trust Company for Security Settlements    Annette Rohovit, Irene Hester, Vicki Rows

Deseret Trust Company's Fax Copies Phone #                   (801) 363-2995

INSTITUTION(S) FOR WHICH INVESTMENT ADVISORS ACT(S)
SECURITY TRADE CODING INFORMATION FOR BROKERS

Institution Name                                             Deseret Trust Company

Investment Advisor Institution ID #                          25782

Agent Bank Name                                              Deseret Trust Company

Agent Bank ID#                                               25782

Agent Bank's DTC Participant Clearing #                      0958

Agent Bank Internal # for Account                            245501028 BLIC -General to be give by Trader to Broker
                                                             245500202 BLIC - Gen. EQ
                                                             245500210 BLIC - Val EQ
                                                             245501010 BLIC - Pledged
                                                             245501044 BLIC - Tot Ret Fixed

</TABLE>

<TABLE>

<S>                                                 <C>                               <C> 
BROKER ACCOUNT STATEMENTS                           Deseret Trust Company (copy 1)    Beneficial Life Insurance Co.
- -------------------------
                                                                                      (copy 2)
                                                    c/o Harvey S. Glade               c/o Ken Steiner
                                                    P.O. Box 11558                    36 S. State St.
                                                    SLC, UT 84147                     Salt Lake City, UT 84136


TAX ID # FOR INSTITUTIONS FOR WHICH ADVISORS        87-0115120
ACT(S)

</TABLE>


<PAGE>



                                                      ANNEX 1
                                                      ANNEX 2
                                                      ANNEX 2



                                          PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS AT CLOSING


Wire transfer instructions for purchasers of Littelfuse, Inc. Senior Notes:

                  Bank:                         First National Bank of Chicago
                                                  One First National Plaza
                                                  Chicago, IL  60670-0685

                  ABA#:                              071000013

                  Account Name:                  Littelfuse, Inc.

                  Account #:                        52-64626

                  Littelfuse, Inc. Contact:      Linda Bartuch
                                                  (847) 391-0362




<PAGE>


                                                      ANNEX 3

                                                                         


                                             INFORMATION AS TO COMPANY



<PAGE>



                                                    EXHIBIT B-2



                                                                     EXHIBIT A

                                                  [FORM OF NOTE]

                                                 LITTELFUSE, INC.

                                      6.16% Senior Note due September 1, 2005

No.  R-___

$____________________                                                   [Date]

PPN:

         LITTELFUSE,  INC., a Delaware  corporation (the  "Company"),  for value
received,  hereby  promises  to pay to  ___________  or  registered  assigns the
principal  sum  of   _____________________   DOLLARS   ($__________________)  on
September 1, 2005 and to pay  interest  (computed on the basis of a 360-day year
of twelve 30-day months) on the unpaid  principal  balance thereof from the date
of this Note at the rate of six and sixteen  one-hundredths  percent (6.16%) per
annum, quarterly on the first day of each March, June, September and December in
each year,  commencing on December 1, 1998,  until the  principal  amount hereof
shall  become due and  payable;  and to pay on demand  interest  on any  overdue
principal (including any overdue prepayment of principal) and Make-Whole Amount,
if  any,  and  (to the  extent  permitted  by  applicable  law)  on any  overdue
installment  of interest,  at a rate equal to the lesser of (a) the highest rate
allowed  by  applicable  law and (b) eight and  sixteen  one-hundredths  percent
(8.16%) per annum.

         Payments of principal, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest shall be
made in such coin or currency of the United  States of America as at the time of
payment is legal  tender for the  payment  of public  and  private  debts to the
registered holder hereof at the address shown in the register  maintained by the
Company for such purpose,  in the manner provided in the Note Purchase Agreement
(defined below).

         This  Note is one of an  issue of Notes  of the  Company  issued  in an
aggregate  principal  amount  limited  to Sixty  Million  Dollars  ($60,000,000)
pursuant to the  Company's  Note  Purchase  Agreement,  dated as of September 1,
1998,  (the "Note Purchase  Agreement"),  with the purchasers  listed on Annex 1
thereto.  This Note is entitled to the benefits of the Note  Purchase  Agreement
and the terms thereof are incorporated  herein by reference.  Capitalized  terms
used herein and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings  specified in the
Note Purchase Agreement.  As provided in the Note Purchase Agreement,  this Note
is subject  to  prepayment,  in whole or in part,  in  certain  cases  without a
Make-Whole  Amount and in other  cases with a  Make-Whole  Amount.  The  Company
agrees to make required  prepayments on account of such Notes in accordance with
the provisions of the Note Purchase Agreement.

         This Note is a registered  Note and is  transferable  only by surrender
thereof at the principal office of the Company as specified in the Note Purchase
Agreement, duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer duly
executed by the registered  holder of this Note or its attorney duly  authorized
in writing.

         Under  certain  circumstances,   as  specified  in  the  Note  Purchase
Agreement,  the  principal  of this Note (in  certain  cases  together  with any
applicable  Make-Whole Amount) may be declared due and payable in the manner and
with the effect provided in the Note Purchase Agreement.


         THIS NOTE AND THE NOTE  PURCHASE  AGREEMENT  SHALL BE GOVERNED  BY, AND
CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, INTERNAL ILLINOIS LAW.

                                                              LITTELFUSE, INC.


                                                    By ________________________

                                                                   Name:

                                                                   Title:


<PAGE>


September 1, 1998
Page 3
                                                    EXHIBIT B-2



                                                                       


               FORM OF PURCHASERS' SPECIAL COUNSEL CLOSING OPINION



                                                 September 1, 1998



To Each of the Purchasers
Listed on Schedule I hereto


Ladies and Gentlemen:

         We have acted as your special  counsel in connection with the execution
and delivery of the Agreement (as hereinafter  defined) and your purchase on the
date hereof of $60,000,000  aggregate principal amount of 6.16% Senior Notes due
September 1, 2005 (the "Notes") of  Littelfuse,  Inc., a  corporation  organized
under  the  laws  of  Delaware  (the  "Company"),  pursuant  to a Note  Purchase
Agreement,  dated as of September  1, 1998,  entered into by the Company and you
(the "Agreement").

         This opinion is being  delivered  to you pursuant to Section  3.1(b) of
the  Agreement.  Capitalized  terms used but not otherwise  defined herein shall
have the same meanings ascribed to them in the Agreement.

         We have examined such  certificates of public officials and officers of
the Company, documents,  corporate records, statutes, rules and regulations, and
we have considered  such other  questions of law as we have deemed  necessary or
appropriate  for purposes of this opinion.  As to facts material to our opinion,
we have relied,  without independent  verification,  upon the representations of
the  Company  contained  in  the  Agreement  and  information  contained  in the
Company's  certificates  delivered in connection with the execution and delivery
of the Agreement and the issuance of the Notes.  We have assumed the genuineness
and completeness of all signatures,  the authenticity of all documents submitted
to us as originals,  and the conformity to originals of all documents  submitted
to us as copies.

         Based on the  foregoing,  and subject to the  qualifications  set forth
herein and the last paragraphs hereof, we are of the opinion that:

         1. The Company is a corporation validly existing in good standing under
the General  Corporation Law of the State of Delaware,  with the corporate power
to enter into and perform the Agreement and to issue and sell the Notes.

         2. The Agreement has been duly authorized by proper corporate action on
the part of the Company,  has been duly  executed and delivered by an authorized
officer of the Company and constitutes the legal, valid and binding agreement of
the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except to the extent that
enforcement   of  the  Agreement  may  be  limited  by  applicable   bankruptcy,
insolvency,  reorganization,  moratorium or similar laws of general  application
relating  to or  affecting  the  enforcement  of the rights of  creditors  or by
equitable  principles,   regardless  of  whether  enforcement  is  sought  in  a
proceeding in equity or at law.

         3. The Notes have been duly  authorized by proper  corporate  action on
the part of the Company,  have been duly executed and delivered by an authorized
officer of the Company and constitute the legal,  valid and binding  obligations
of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except to the extent
that  enforcement  of  the  Notes  may  be  limited  by  applicable  bankruptcy,
insolvency,  reorganization,  moratorium or similar laws of general  application
relating  to or  affecting  the  enforcement  of the rights of  creditors  or by
equitable  principles,   regardless  of  whether  enforcement  is  sought  in  a
proceeding in equity or at law.

         4.  Based  upon the  representations  set forth in the  Agreement,  the
offering,  sale and delivery of the Notes do not require the registration of the
Notes under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,  nor the qualification of an
indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.

         5. The  compliance  with the terms and provisions of the Agreement will
not  conflict  with or result  in any  breach  of any of the  provisions  of the
Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws of the Company.

         The  opinion of Chapman  and Cutler,  special  counsel to the  Company,
dated the date hereof and  delivered  to you  pursuant to Section  3.1(a) of the
Agreement, is satisfactory in form and scope to us.

         We are  admitted to  practice  in the State of Illinois  and express no
opinion with respect to, or as to the effect or applicability of, any laws other
than the laws of the State of Illinois, the General Corporation Law of the State
of Delaware and the federal laws of the United States.

         This  opinion  is  rendered  as  of  the  date  hereof.  We  assume  no
responsibility for updating this opinion to take into account any event, action,
interpretation or change of law occurring subsequent to the date hereof that may
affect the validity of any of the opinions expressed herein.

         This opinion is delivered to you solely for your benefit and may not be
furnished  to,  quoted or relied upon by any other person other than  subsequent
purchasers or transferees of the Notes; provided,  however that this opinion may
be  disclosed  (i) to your agents and  employees,  (ii) in  connection  with the
enforcement  of  obligations  of the Company under the Notes and the  Agreement,
(iii) in  response  to a subpoena  or other  legal  process,  (iv) as  otherwise
required by applicable law or regulations; or (v) in connection with the sale or
transfer of the Notes.

                                                     Very truly yours,







<PAGE>



                                                    SCHEDULE I



Principal Life Insurance Company
Nationwide Life Insurance Company
American Family Life Insurance Company
TMG Life Insurance Company
Beneficial Life Insurance Company


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.8
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.8
<TEXT>


                                                            Revised 2/5/99




                                                             EXHIBIT 10.8





                                       LITTELFUSE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
                                            FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS


                                                     ARTICLE I

                                                PURPOSE OF THE PLAN

         The  purpose  of  the  Littelfuse   Deferred   Compensation   Plan  for
Non-employee  Directors (the "Plan") is to promote the ownership by non-employee
directors of Littelfuse, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), of shares
of common stock, $.01 par value, of the Company (the "Company Common Stock"), by
allowing them to elect to receive  shares of the Company Common Stock in lieu of
their receiving some or all of the cash compensation  which they would otherwise
be  entitled  to receive as  payment  for their  services  as  directors  of the
Company.  The Company believes that ownership of the Company Common Stock by its
non-employee  directors aligns the interests of such non-employee directors more
closely with the interests of the  stockholders of the Company and that the Plan
will also  assist the  Company in  attracting  and  retaining  highly  qualified
persons to serve as non-employee directors of the Company.


                                                    ARTICLE II

                                          ELECTIONS BY ELIGIBLE DIRECTORS


                                                    ARTICLE II

                                          ELECTIONS BY ELIGIBLE DIRECTORS

         Section  2.1.  Eligibility.  Any person who is serving as a director of
the Company and who is not an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries
shall be  eligible  to  participate  under  the Plan  (hereinafter  referred  to
individually  as an  "Eligible  Director"  and  collectively  as  the  "Eligible
Directors").

         Section  2.2.  Compensation.  As used herein,  the term  "Compensation"
shall  mean  any and all  fees  and  retainers  payable  in cash to an  Eligible
Director  by the  Company  for his or her  services  as a  director,  including,
without  limitation,  his or her annual  retainer  and meeting  fees. A Director
shall be deemed to have earned  one-fourth of his or her annual  retainer fee on
the date of each of the four regularly  scheduled  Board of Directors  meetings,
whether or not he or she attends such meeting.

         Section 2.3.  Compensation  Deferral for 1995.  Not later than June 30,
1995, an Eligible  Director may, by filing a written election with the Secretary
of the  Company,  direct  the  Company  (a) to  defer  some or all of his or her
Compensation  for 1995 which has not  theretofore  been earned by such  Eligible
Director in such amount or percentage as specified by such Eligible Director and
(b) to credit the amount of such deferral to an account  maintained on the books
of the Company for such Eligible Director (the "Deferred Compensation Account"),
such credit to be made as of the date that such  Compensation  is deemed to have
been earned by such Eligible Director.

         Section 2.4.  Compensation  Deferral for 1996.  Not later than June 30,
1995, an Eligible  Director may, by filing a written election with the Secretary
of the  Company,  direct  the  Company  (a) to  defer  some or all of his or her
Compensation for 1996 in such amount or percentage as specified by such Eligible
Director  and (b) to  credit  the  amount  of  such  deferral  to such  Eligible
Director's Deferred  Compensation Account, such credit to be made as of the date
that such Compensation is deemed to have been earned by such Eligible Director.

         Section  2.5.  Compensation  Deferral  for 1997  and  Later  Years.  An
Eligible  Director  may, by filing a written  election with the Secretary of the
Company from time to time, direct the Company (a) to defer some or all of his or
her Compensation  which is payable to him or her on or after January 1, 1997, in
such amount or  percentage  as  specified by such  Eligible  Director and (b) to
credit  the  amount  of such  deferral  to  such  Eligible  Director's  Deferred
Compensation  Account,  such  credit  to  be  made  as of  the  date  that  such
Compensation is deemed to have been earned by such Eligible Director.

         Section  2.6.   Interest.   The  Company   shall  credit  the  Deferred
Compensation  Account for each  Eligible  Director  with interest at the rate of
eight percent (8%) per annum on the balance of the Deferred Compensation Account
from time to time, such credit to be made on a monthly basis.

         Section  2.7.  Elections.  Once an election by an Eligible  Director to
defer some or all of his or her Compensation  becomes effective pursuant to this
Article,  such election shall remain in effect until written notice  terminating
or  amending  said  election  is  delivered  by said  Eligible  Director  to the
Secretary of the Company.

     Section  2.8.  Maximum  Number of Shares.  The maximum  number of shares of
Company  Common  Stock which may be issued  pursuant to the Plan shall be 60,000
shares.


                                                    ARTICLE III

                                    ESTABLISHMENT OF AND CONTRIBUTIONS TO TRUST

         Section 3.1.  Establishment  of Trust.  The Company  shall  establish a
trust (the "Trust")  with an  independent  third party  trustee  approved by the
Board of Directors of the Company (the "Trustee")  pursuant to a trust agreement
approved by the Board of Directors of the Company  (the "Trust  Agreement")  for
the purpose of holding shares of the Company Common Stock for the benefit of the
Eligible Directors.

         Section  3.2.  Establishment  of  Trust  Accounts.  The  Trustee  shall
establish  a  separate   account  under  the  Trust  (a  "Trust   Account"  and,
collectively  with all other Trust Accounts,  the "Trust Fund") for any Eligible
Director who elects to defer Compensation pursuant to the Plan.

         Section 3.3.  Contribution of Shares to Trust  Accounts.  On the second
business  day after the 185th day after an  Eligible  Director  delivers  to the
Secretary  of the Company his or her election to defer some or all of his or her
Compensation for 1995, and,  commencing  January 1, 1996, on the second business
day after each date on which the  balance  of an  Eligible  Director's  Deferred
Compensation  Account  equals or exceeds Eight Hundred  Dollars  ($800.00),  the
Company  shall issue in the name of the Trustee and deliver to the Trustee stock
certificates representing that number of shares of Company Common Stock which is
equal to the balance of the Eligible Director's Deferred Compensation Account on
the Valuation Date divided by the Current Market Price; provided,  however, that
no  fractional  shares shall be issued.  The Company  shall reduce such Eligible
Director's Deferred Compensation Account by the amount thereof which was used to
purchase  said shares of Company  Common Stock and the Trustee  shall credit the
Trust  Account of such  Eligible  Director with such number of shares of Company
Common Stock.  As used herein,  the term  "Valuation  Date" with respect to each
such  issuance of shares shall mean the date the Company  issues said shares and
the term  "Current  Market  Price" with respect to each such  issuance of shares
shall have the same meaning that such term has in that certain Warrant Agreement
dated as of December 20, 1991,  by and between the Company and LaSalle  National
Trust,  N.A.  as Warrant  Agent  (the  "Warrant  Agreement").  For  purposes  of
determining the Current Market Price, the five (5) consecutive  Trading Days (as
such term is defined in the  Warrant  Agreement)  required to be selected by the
Company  shall be the five (5)  consecutive  Trading  Days  which end on the day
preceding the day upon which the Company issues said shares.

         Section 3.4. Dividends and Distributions. All dividends payable in cash
with  respect to any shares of  Company  Common  Stock held in the Trust for the
benefit of an Eligible  Director  which are  received  by the  Trustee  shall be
reinvested by the Trustee in shares of Company Common Stock,  either pursuant to
purchases from the Company or from third parties,  credited to the Trust Account
of such  Eligible  Director  and held by the  Trustee  for the  benefit  of such
Eligible  Director and distributed to such Eligible Director pursuant to Article
IV hereof.  All non-cash  dividends or other  distributions  with respect to any
shares of Company  Common Stock held in the Trust for the benefit of an Eligible
Director  which are  received  by the  Trustee,  or any shares of stock or other
securities  of another  entity  into which such shares of Company  Common  Stock
shall be converted or exchanged  pursuant to a merger,  consolidation,  exchange
offer or other transaction which are received by the Trustee,  shall be credited
to such  Eligible  Director's  Trust  Account  and held by the  Trustee  for the
benefit of such Eligible  Director and  distributed  to such  Eligible  Director
pursuant to Article IV hereof.

         Section 3.5.  Voting of Shares.  All shares of Company  Common Stock or
other voting securities  credited to an Eligible  Director's Trust Account shall
be voted by and in the discretion of the Trustee.

         Section 3.6. Trustee's Fees. All fees and expenses of the Trustee under
the Trust Agreement shall be paid by the Company.

         Section 3.7. Vesting. Except as otherwise provided in Article V hereof,
the  interests  of  the  Eligible   Directors  in  their   respective   Deferred
Compensation  Accounts and Trust Accounts shall at all times be fully vested and
non-forfeitable.


                                                    ARTICLE IV

                                             DISTRIBUTION OF ACCOUNTS

        Section  4.1.  Time of  Distributions.  Distributions  of any amounts or
assets  credited to an Eligible  Director's  Deferred  Compensation  Account and
Trust Account shall  commence or be made in the manner  described in Section 4.2
hereof  within ten (10) days after the earlier of: (i) the date of the  Eligible
Director'  termination  of service as a  director  of the  Company on account of
resignation,  removal, replacement,  retirement, death or otherwise; or (ii) the
date the Board of  Directors  of the Company  determines  that it is in the best
interests of the Company or such Eligible Director that such distribution  shall
be made; provided, however, that such Eligible Director must abstain from voting
on or  with  respect  to,  and  may  not  otherwise  participate  in,  any  such
determination.

         Section  4.2.  Method  of  Distribution.  At the  time  of an  Eligible
Director's  initial  election  described  in Article II, the  Eligible  Director
making  such  election  shall  specify  in a  written  notice  delivered  to the
Secretary of the Company  whether the amounts and assets  credited to his or her
Deferred  Compensation  Account and Trust Account shall be distributed to him or
her (or his or her  beneficiary)  in a single lump sum  distribution at the time
described  in Section  4.1,  or in not more than ten equal  annual  installments
commencing  at such time.  If an  Eligible  Director  shall fail to make such an
election, he or she shall be deemed to have elected a lump sum distribution. The
Eligible  Director may change such  distribution  election  from time to time by
delivering written notice to the Secretary of the Company. Any amounts or assets
credited  to an  Eligible  Director's  Deferred  Compensation  Account and Trust
Account  shall be  distributed  or commence to be  distributed  to such Eligible
Director or his or her  beneficiary  at the time described in Section 4.1 in the
manner so specified. If the Company is not Insolvent (as hereinafter defined) at
the time of any distribution,  the distributions shall be made from the Eligible
Director's Deferred  Compensation  Account and Trust Account (as applicable) and
charged to the  Eligible  Director's  Deferred  Compensation  Account  and Trust
Account (as applicable).

         Section  4.3.  Designation  of  Beneficiary.   Each  Eligible  Director
participating in the Plan shall designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries to whom
distributions shall be made pursuant to Section 4.2 in the event of the death of
the Director  before his or her entire Deferred  Compensation  Account and Trust
Account is distributed.  If there is no designated beneficiary, or no designated
beneficiary  surviving at an Eligible  Director's death, the Eligible Director's
beneficiary shall be his or her estate.  Beneficiary  designations shall be made
in  writing.   An  Eligible   Director  may  designate  a  new   beneficiary  or
beneficiaries  at any time by filing a new  election  with the  Secretary of the
Company.

         Section  4.4.  Taxes.  In the event any taxes are required by law to be
withheld or paid from any  distributions  made pursuant to the Plan, the Company
or  Trustee  (as  applicable)  shall  deduct  the amount of such taxes from such
distributions and shall transmit the withheld amounts to the appropriate  taxing
authority or obtain payment from the appropriate Eligible Director of the amount
of any such taxes prior to any such distributions.


                                                     ARTICLE V

                                             CREDITORS AND INSOLVENCY

         Section 5.1.  Claims of the  Company's  Creditors.  All balances in the
Deferred Compensation Accounts and assets held in the Trust Accounts pursuant to
the Plan,  and any issuances of shares of Company Common Stock to be made by the
Company and any  distribution to be made by the Trustee pursuant to the Plan and
Trust Agreement,  shall be subject to the claims of the general creditors of the
Company, including judgment creditors and bankruptcy creditors. The rights of an
Eligible  Director or his or her  beneficiaries  to any assets of the Company or
the Trust Fund shall be no greater than the rights of an  unsecured  creditor of
the Company.

         Section  5.2.  Notification  of  Insolvency.  In the event the  Company
becomes Insolvent, the Board of Directors of the Company or the President of the
Company shall promptly notify the Trustee of that fact. In the event the Company
becomes  Insolvent,  the Company  shall not issue any further  shares of Company
Common  Stock  under  the  Plan.   The  Trustee   shall  not  make  any  further
distributions  from the Trust Fund to any Eligible  Director or any  beneficiary
under the Plan after such notification that the Company is Insolvent is received
or at any time after the Trustee has  knowledge  that the Company is  Insolvent.
Under any such circumstance,  the Trustee shall deliver any property held in the
Trust Fund only as a court of competent  jurisdiction  may direct to satisfy the
claims of the Company's  creditors or otherwise.  For purposes of this Plan, the
Company shall be deemed to be "Insolvent" if the Company is subject to a pending
voluntary  or  involuntary  proceeding  as a  debtor  under  the  United  States
Bankruptcy Code, as amended, or is unable to pay its debts as they become due.


                                                    ARTICLE VI

                                                   MISCELLANEOUS

         Section 6.1.  Funding.  Neither any Eligible  Director,  nor his or her
beneficiaries,  nor his or her  heirs,  successors  or  assigns,  shall have any
secured  interest  in or claim on any  property  or assets of the Company or the
Trust under or pursuant to the Plan or otherwise. The Company's obligation under
the Plan  shall be merely  that of an  unfunded  and  unsecured  promise  of the
Company to credit certain amounts to the Deferred  Compensation  Accounts and to
issue and  deliver  shares of the  Company  Common  Stock to the Trustee for the
benefit  of the  Eligible  Directors.  The  Company  shall  fund  the  Trust  in
accordance with the terms of the Plan, but all assets contained therein shall be
and remain subject to the claims of the Company's  general creditors as provided
in Article V hereof.

         Section  6.2.  Term of Plan.  The  Board of  Directors  of the  Company
reserves the right to amend the Plan or Trust Agreement or terminate the Plan or
Trust at any time;  provided,  however,  that no amendment or termination  shall
affect the rights of Eligible Directors to amounts or assets previously credited
to their Deferred Compensation Accounts or Trust Accounts and, provided further,
that the Plan may not be amended more than once every six months,  other than to
comport with changes in the Internal  Revenue Code of 1986,  as amended,  or the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act, as amended, or the rules thereunder, if
such  amendment  would  cause the Plan not to be in  compliance  with Rule 16b-3
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  the
Trust shall remain in effect  until such time as the entire  corpus of the Trust
Fund has been distributed pursuant to the terms of the Trust Agreement,  and the
Plan shall remain in effect until such time as all amounts  credited to Eligible
Directors' Deferred Compensation Accounts are distributed pursuant to Article IV
hereof.

         Section 6.3. Assignment.  No right or interest of any Eligible Director
or his or her beneficiary (or any person claiming through or under such Eligible
Director or his or her  beneficiary) in any benefit or payment under the Plan or
the Trust shall be  assignable  or  transferable  in any manner or be subject to
alienation, anticipation, sale, pledge, encumbrance or other legal process or in
any manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of such Eligible
Director.

         Section  6.4.  Tax  Effect.  This Plan is  intended to be treated as an
unfunded deferred  compensation plan under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended.  It is the  intention of the Company  that the amounts of  Compensation
which an Eligible  Director  elects to have deferred  pursuant to the Plan shall
not be  included  in the gross  income of such  Eligible  Director or his or her
beneficiaries until such time as the amounts or assets credited to such Eligible
Director's  Deferred  Compensation  Account and Trust Account are distributed to
the Eligible  Director or his or her beneficiary  under the Plan. If at any time
it is  determined  by the Company  that  amounts  attributable  to the  Eligible
Directors'  Deferred  Compensation  Accounts or Trust Accounts are includible in
the  gross  income  of the  Eligible  Directors  or their  beneficiaries  before
distribution  pursuant to Article IV hereof,  all amounts and assets credited to
the Eligible Directors' Deferred  Compensation Accounts and Trust Accounts shall
be immediately  distributed to the respective Eligible Directors or, in the case
of deceased Eligible Directors, their beneficiaries.  Distributions described in
the  preceding  sentence  shall  only be made  from  the  Deferred  Compensation
Accounts or from the Trust if the Company is not  Insolvent at the time for such
distribution.

         Section  6.5.  Compliance  with  Rule  16b-3.  It is the  intent of the
Company that the Plan comply in all respects with applicable  provisions of Rule
16b-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Accordingly,  if any provision
of the Plan does not  comply  with the  requirements  of said Rule 16b-3 as then
applicable to any such Eligible  Director,  or would cause any Eligible Director
to no longer be deemed a "disinterested  person" within the meaning of said Rule
16b-3,  such  provision  shall be  construed  or deemed  amended  to the  extent
necessary  to  conform  to such  requirements  with  respect  to  such  Eligible
Director.  In  addition,  the Board of  Directors  of the Company  shall have no
authority to make any  amendment,  alteration,  suspension,  discontinuation  or
termination of the Plan or take other action if and to the extent such authority
would cause an Eligible Director's  transactions under the Plan not to be exempt
or any Eligible Director no longer to be deemed a "disinterested  person," under
said Rule 16b-3.

     Section 6.6. Governing Law. This Plan shall be governed by and construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois.

     Section 6.7.  Successors.  The provisions of this Plan shall bind and inure
to the benefit of the Company and its successors and assigns.

         Section 6.8.  Effective Date of Plan. The Plan shall be effective as of
March 17, 1995,  subject to approval by the  stockholders  of the  Company.  Any
Compensation  deferral elections,  credits to Deferred  Compensation Accounts or
contributions  to the Trust made  prior to such  stockholder  approval  shall be
contingent on such approval,  and if such approval is not obtained prior to June
1, 1995, all Compensation deferral elections shall be deemed to be cancelled and
all amounts or assets  credited to the  Deferred  Compensation  Accounts and the
Trust  Accounts  shall  be  distributed  to  the  Eligible  Directors  or  their
beneficiaries.  Distributions  described in the preceding sentence shall only be
made if the Company is not Insolvent at the time for such distribution.

         Section 6.9. No Right to Continued  Service.  Nothing  contained herein
shall be construed to confer upon any Eligible Director the right to continue to
serve as a Director of the Company or in any other capacity.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.13
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.13
<TEXT>



                                  Exhibit 10.13



                                                 CHANGE OF CONTROL
                                               EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

         THIS  AGREEMENT  is made and entered into as of the 4th day of January,
1999,  by and between  LITTELFUSE,  INC.,  a Delaware  corporation  (hereinafter
referred to as the "Company"),  and PHILIP G. FRANKLIN  (hereinafter referred to
as the "Executive");

                                               W I T N E S S E T H:

         WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company (hereinafter referred to
as the "Board") has  determined  that it is in the best interests of the Company
and its stockholders to provide the Executive with certain  protections  against
the  uncertainties  usually  created  by a Change  of  Control  (as such term is
hereinafter defined); and

         WHEREAS,  the  Board  believes  that the  protections  provided  to the
Executive  in  connection  with a Change  of  Control  will  better  enable  the
Executive to devote his full time,  attention  and energy to the business of the
Company prior to and after a Change of Control,  thereby benefitting the Company
and its stockholders;

         NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the premises and other good and
valuable  consideration,  the  receipt  and  sufficiency  of  which  are  hereby
acknowledged  and  confessed,  the Company  and the  Executive  hereby  agree as
follows:

           Section 1. Certain  Definitions.  (a) The "Effective Date" shall mean
the first date during the Change of Control  Period (as defined in Section  1(b)
hereof) on which a Change of Control  (as  defined in Section 2 hereof)  occurs.
Notwithstanding  anything to the  contrary  contained  in this  Agreement,  if a
Change of Control occurs and if the  Executive's  employment with the Company is
terminated prior to the date on which the Change of Control occurs, and if it is
reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment (i)
was at the direct or indirect request of a third party who theretofore had taken
any steps  intended  to effect a Change of  Control or (ii)  otherwise  arose in
connection with or in anticipation of a Change of Control, then for all purposes
of this Agreement the "Effective Date" shall mean the date immediately  prior to
the date of such termination of employment.

         (b) The "Change of Control Period" shall mean the period  commencing on
the date hereof and ending on September 1, 2001.

          Section 2. Change of Control.  For the  purpose of this  Agreement,  a
               "Change of Control" shall mean:

                   (a)  The  acquisition  in one  or  more  transactions  by any
         individual,  entity or group (hereinafter referred to collectively as a
         "Person")  within the  meaning of Section  13(d)(3)  of the  Securities
         Exchange  Act of  1934,  as  amended  (hereinafter  referred  to as the
         "Exchange  Act"), of beneficial  ownership  (within the meaning of, and
         calculated  in  accordance  with,  Rule  13d-3  promulgated  under  the
         Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding  shares
         of  common  stock  of  the  Company  (hereinafter  referred  to as  the
         "Outstanding  Company Common Stock") or (ii) the combined  voting power
         of the then  outstanding  voting  securities of the Company entitled to
         vote generally in the election of directors (hereinafter referred to as
         the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities");  provided,  however, that
         for purposes of this subsection (a), the following  acquisitions  shall
         not constitute a Change of Control:  (i) any acquisition  directly from
         the Company, (ii) any acquisition by the Company, (iii) any acquisition
         by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained
         by the Company or any corporation  controlled by the Company,  (iv) any
         acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies
         with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (c) of this Section 2 or
         (v) any  acquisition by Oaktree Capital  Management,  LLC, a California
         limited liability  company,  or any of its Affiliates or Associates (as
         used  herein,  the terms  "Affiliate"  and  "Associate"  shall have the
         respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General
         Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act); or

                   (b)  Individuals  who, as of the date hereof,  constitute the
         Board (hereinafter  referred to as the "Incumbent Board") cease for any
         reason  to  constitute  at least a  majority  of the  Board;  provided,
         however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date
         hereof whose  election,  or  nomination  for election by the  Company's
         stockholders,  was  approved  by a vote of at least a  majority  of the
         directors then  comprising  the Incumbent  Board shall be considered as
         though  such  individual  were a member  of the  Incumbent  Board,  but
         excluding,   for  this  purpose,  any  such  individual  whose  initial
         assumption  of office  occurs  as a result  of an actual or  threatened
         election  contest  with respect to the election or removal of directors
         or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or
         on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or

                   (c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation
         or sale or other  disposition of all or substantially all of the assets
         of the Company  (hereinafter  referred to as a "Business  Combination")
         unless,  following such Business Combination,  (i) all or substantially
         all of the  individuals  and entities who were the  beneficial  owners,
         respectively,  of the Outstanding  Company Common Stock and Outstanding
         Company   Voting   Securities   immediately   prior  to  such  Business
         Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of,
         respectively,  the then  outstanding  shares  of  common  stock and the
         combined  voting  power  of  the  then  outstanding  voting  securities
         entitled to vote  generally in the election of  directors,  as the case
         may be, of the  corporation  resulting  from such Business  Combination
         (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such
         transaction  owns  the  Company  or  all  or  substantially  all of the
         Company's  assets either directly or through one or more  subsidiaries)
         in substantially  the same proportions as their ownership,  immediately
         prior to such Business  Combination of the  Outstanding  Company Common
         Stock and Outstanding  Company Voting  Securities,  as the case may be,
         (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation  resulting from such Business
         Combination  or any  employee  benefit  plan (or related  trust) of the
         Company or such corporation  resulting from such Business  Combination)
         beneficially   owns,   directly   or   indirectly,   20%  or  more  of,
         respectively,  the  then  outstanding  shares  of  common  stock of the
         corporation resulting from such Business  Combination,  or the combined
         voting  power  of  the  then  outstanding  voting  securities  of  such
         corporation  except to the extent that such ownership  existed prior to
         the Business  Combination  and (iii) at least a majority of the members
         of the  board of  directors  of the  corporation  resulting  from  such
         Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of
         the execution of the initial agreement,  or of the action of the Board,
         providing for such Business Combination; or

                   (d) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete
         liquidation  or  dissolution  of the  Company  within  one year after a
         Business Combination.

           Section 3. Employment  Period.  The Company hereby agrees to continue
to  employ  the  Executive,  and the  Executive  hereby  agrees  to remain as an
employee of the Company,  subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
for the  period  commencing  on the  Effective  Date and  ending  on the  second
anniversary of such date (the "Employment Period").

           Section 4.    Terms of Employment.

         (a)  Position and Duties.  (i) During the  Employment  Period,  (A) the
Executive's   position   (including  status,   offices,   titles  and  reporting
requirements),   authority,  duties  and  responsibilities  shall  be  at  least
commensurate in all material  respects with the most  significant of those held,
exercised  and  assigned  at any time  during  the  120-day  period  immediately
preceding the Effective Date and (B) the Executive's services shall be performed
at the location  where the  Executive  was employed  immediately  preceding  the
Effective Date or any office or location less than 20 miles from such location.

        (ii) During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation
and sick leave to which the  Executive  is  entitled,  the  Executive  agrees to
devote  reasonable  attention  and  time  during  normal  business  hours to the
business  and affairs of the Company  and, to the extent  necessary to discharge
the responsibilities assigned to the Executive hereunder, to use the Executive's
reasonable   best   efforts  to  perform   faithfully   and   efficiently   such
responsibilities.  During the  Employment  Period it shall not be a violation of
this Agreement for the Executive to (A) serve on corporate,  civic or charitable
boards or committees,  (B) deliver  lectures,  fulfill  speaking  engagements or
teach at educational institutions,  and (C) manage personal investments, so long
as such  activities do not  significantly  interfere with the performance of the
Executive's  responsibilities  as an employee of the Company in accordance  with
this  Agreement.  It is expressly  understood and agreed that to the extent that
any such  activities have been conducted by the Executive prior to the Effective
Date,  the continued  conduct of such  activities  (or the conduct of activities
similar in nature and scope thereto)  subsequent to the Effective Date shall not
thereafter  be deemed  to  interfere  with the  performance  of the  Executive's
responsibilities to the Company.

         (b) Compensation.  (i) Base Salary.  During the Employment  Period, the
Executive  shall receive an annual base salary  (hereinafter  referred to as the
"Annual Base Salary"),  which shall be paid at a monthly rate, equal to at least
twelve times the highest monthly base salary paid or payable, including any base
salary which has been earned but  deferred,  to the Executive by the Company and
its  affiliated  companies  in respect of the  twelve-month  period  immediately
preceding the month in which the Effective  Date occurs.  During the  Employment
Period,  the Annual Base Salary  shall be reviewed no more than 12 months  after
the last salary  increase  awarded to the Executive  prior to the Effective Date
and thereafter at least  annually.  Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not
serve to limit or reduce  any  other  obligation  to the  Executive  under  this
Agreement.  Annual Base Salary shall not be reduced  after any such increase and
the term Annual Base Salary as used in this Agreement shall refer to Annual Base
Salary  as so  increased.  As used  in  this  Agreement,  the  term  "affiliated
companies" shall include any company  controlled by, controlling or under common
control with the Company.

        (ii) Annual Bonus. In addition to the Annual Base Salary,  the Executive
shall be awarded,  for each fiscal year ending during the Employment  Period, an
annual bonus  (hereinafter  referred to as the "Annual  Bonus") in cash at least
equal to the  Executive's  highest  bonus under the  Company's  incentive  bonus
program or any comparable bonus under any predecessor or successor plan, for the
last three full fiscal  years prior to the  Effective  Date  (annualized  in the
event that the  Executive  was not employed by the Company for the whole of such
fiscal year) (hereinafter  referred to as the "Recent Annual Bonus").  Each such
Annual  Bonus  shall be paid no later  than  the end of the  third  month of the
fiscal  year next  following  the  fiscal  year for which  the  Annual  Bonus is
awarded,  unless the  Executive  shall elect to defer the receipt of such Annual
Bonus.

       (iii)  Incentive,  Savings and  Retirement  Plans.  During the Employment
Period, the Executive shall be entitled to participate in all incentive, savings
and retirement plans,  practices,  policies and programs applicable generally to
other peer  executives of the Company and its  affiliated  companies,  but in no
event shall such plans,  practices,  policies and programs provide the Executive
with incentive  opportunities (measured with respect to both regular and special
incentive  opportunities,  to the  extent,  if any,  that  such  distinction  is
applicable), savings opportunities and retirement benefit opportunities, in each
case,  less  favorable,  in the  aggregate,  than  the most  favorable  of those
provided by the Company and its  affiliated  companies for the  Executive  under
such plans, practices, policies and programs as in effect at any time during the
120-day period immediately  preceding the Effective Date or if more favorable to
the Executive,  those provided generally at any time after the Effective Date to
other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.

        (iv) Welfare Benefit Plans.  During the Employment Period, the Executive
and/or  the  Executive's  family,  as the case may be,  shall  be  eligible  for
participation  in and shall receive all benefits  under welfare  benefit  plans,
practices,  policies  and  programs  provided by the Company and its  affiliated
companies  (including,  without  limitation,   medical,  prescription,   dental,
disability,  employee life,  group life,  accidental  death and travel  accident
insurance plans and programs) to the extent  applicable  generally to other peer
executives of the Company and its  affiliated  companies,  but in no event shall
such plans, practices, policies and programs provide the Executive with benefits
which are less  favorable,  in the  aggregate,  than the most  favorable of such
plans, practices,  policies and programs in effect for the Executive at any time
during the 120-day period  immediately  preceding the Effective Date or, if more
favorable  to the  Executive,  those  provided  generally  at any time after the
Effective  Date to other  peer  executives  of the  Company  and its  affiliated
companies.

         (v) Expenses.  During the  Employment  Period,  the Executive  shall be
entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by
the  Executive in accordance  with the most  favorable  policies,  practices and
procedures  of the  Company  and its  affiliated  companies  in  effect  for the
Executive  at any time  during the  120-day  period  immediately  preceding  the
Effective Date or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect generally at
any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its
affiliated companies.

        (vi) Fringe Benefits.  During the Employment Period, the Executive shall
be entitled to fringe benefits, including, without limitation, tax and financial
planning  services,  payment  of  club  dues,  and,  if  applicable,  use  of an
automobile  and  payment  of  related  expenses,  in  accordance  with  the most
favorable  plans,  practices,  programs  and  policies  of the  Company  and its
affiliated  companies in effect for the Executive at any time during the 120-day
period  immediately  preceding the Effective  Date or, if more  favorable to the
Executive,  as in effect  generally at any time thereafter with respect to other
peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.

       (vii)  Office and  Support  Staff.  During  the  Employment  Period,  the
Executive  shall  be  entitled  to an  office  or  offices  of a size  and  with
furnishings and other  appointments,  and to exclusive personal  secretarial and
other assistance, at least equal to the most favorable of the foregoing provided
to the Executive by the Company and its affiliated  companies at any time during
the  120-day  period  immediately  preceding  the  Effective  Date  or,  if more
favorable to the Executive,  as provided  generally at any time  thereafter with
respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliated companies.

      (viii)  Vacation.  During the Employment  Period,  the Executive  shall be
entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the most favorable plans, policies,
programs and practices of the Company and its affiliated  companies as in effect
for the Executive at any time during the 120-day  period  immediately  preceding
the  Effective  Date  or,  if more  favorable  to the  Executive,  as in  effect
generally at any time  thereafter  with respect to other peer  executives of the
Company and its affiliated companies.

           Section 5.    Termination of Employment.

         (a)  Disability.  If the  Company  determines  in good  faith  that the
Disability of the Executive has occurred during the Employment  Period (pursuant
to the definition of Disability set forth below),  it may give written notice to
the Executive of its intention to terminate the Executive's employment.  In such
event, the Executive's  employment with the Company shall terminate effective on
the 30th day after  delivery of such notice to the  Executive  (the  "Disability
Effective  Date"),  provided that,  within the 30 days after such delivery,  the
Executive  shall not have returned to full-time  performance of the  Executive's
duties.  For purposes of this Agreement,  "Disability" shall mean the absence of
the Executive from the Executive's  duties with the Company on a full-time basis
for 180  consecutive  business days as a result of  incapacity  due to mental or
physical  illness  which is  determined to be total and permanent by a physician
selected  by the  Company  or its  insurers  and  reasonably  acceptable  to the
Executive or the Executive's legal representative.

         (b) Cause. The Company may terminate the Executive's  employment during
the Employment  Period for Cause. For purposes of this Agreement,  "Cause" shall
mean:

                   (i) the willful and  continued  failure of the  Executive  to
         perform  substantially  the Executive's  duties with the Company (other
         than any such  failure  resulting  from  incapacity  due to physical or
         mental illness),  after a written demand for substantial performance is
         delivered to the Executive by the Board which  specifically  identifies
         the  manner in which  the Board  believes  that the  Executive  has not
         substantially  performed the Executive's duties and such failure is not
         cured within  sixty (60)  calendar  days after  receipt of such written
         demand; or

                  (ii) the willful  engaging by the Executive in illegal conduct
         or gross misconduct  which is materially and demonstrably  injurious to
         the Company.

For  purposes  of this  provision,  any act or failure to act on the part of the
Executive in violation or contravention of any order, resolution or directive of
the Board of Directors of the Company shall be considered  "willful" unless such
order,  resolution or directive is illegal or in violation of the certificate of
incorporation or by-laws of the Company; provided, however, that no other act or
failure  to act on the part of the  Executive,  shall be  considered  "willful,"
unless it is done,  or  omitted  to be done,  by the  Executive  in bad faith or
without  reasonable  belief that the  Executive's  action or omission was in the
best interests of the Company.  Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority
given  pursuant  to  a  resolution  duly  adopted  by  the  Board  or  upon  the
instructions of the Chief  Executive  Officer or a senior officer of the Company
or based  upon the  advice of  counsel  for the  Company  shall be  conclusively
presumed to be done,  or omitted to be done,  by the Executive in good faith and
in the best  interests  of the  Company.  The  cessation  of  employment  of the
Executive  shall not be deemed to be for Cause unless and until there shall have
been  delivered  to the  Executive a copy of a  resolution  duly  adopted by the
affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the
Board at a  meeting  of the  Board  called  and held  for  such  purpose  (after
reasonable  notice is provided to the  Executive  and the  Executive is given an
opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that,
in the good faith  opinion of the Board,  the Executive is guilty of the conduct
described in  subparagraph  (i) or (ii) above,  and specifying  the  particulars
thereof in detail.

         (c) Good Reason.  The  Executive's  employment may be terminated by the
Executive for Good Reason.  For purposes of this Agreement,  "Good Reason" shall
mean:

                   (i) the Executive is not elected to, or is removed from,  any
         elected  office of the Company  which the  Executive  held  immediately
         prior to the Effective Date;

                  (ii)  the   assignment   to  the   Executive   of  any  duties
         inconsistent in any respect with the Executive's  position,  authority,
         duties or  responsibilities  as contemplated by Section 4(a) hereof, or
         any other action by the Company  which  results in a diminution in such
         position,  authority,  duties or  responsibilities,  excluding for this
         purpose an isolated,  insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in
         bad faith and which is remedied by the Company  promptly  after receipt
         of notice thereof given by the Executive;

                 (iii) any  failure  by the  Company  to comply  with any of the
         provisions of this Agreement, other than an isolated, insubstantial and
         inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by
         the  Company  promptly  after  receipt of notice  thereof  given by the
         Executive;

                  (iv) the  Company's  requiring  the  Executive  to  travel  on
         Company  business  to a  substantially  greater  extent  than  required
         immediately prior to the Effective Date; or

                   (v)  any  purported   termination   by  the  Company  of  the
         Executive's  employment  otherwise than as expressly  permitted by this
         Agreement.

         For  purposes of this Section  5(c),  any good faith  determination  of
"Good Reason" made by the Executive shall be conclusive.

         (d) Notice of Termination. Any termination by the Company for Cause, or
by the Executive for Good Reason, shall be communicated by Notice of Termination
to the other party hereto given in accordance  with Section  12(b)  hereof.  For
purposes of this  Agreement,  a "Notice of  Termination"  means a written notice
which (i) indicates the specific termination  provision in this Agreement relied
upon, (ii) to the extent  applicable,  sets forth in reasonable detail the facts
and circumstances  claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's
employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Date of Termination
(as defined below) is other than the date of delivery of such notice,  specifies
the  termination  date  (which  date  shall be not more  than 30 days  after the
delivery of such  notice).  The failure by the  Executive  or the Company to set
forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance which contributes to
a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of the  Executive or
the Company,  respectively,  hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company,
respectively,  from  asserting  such  fact  or  circumstance  in  enforcing  the
Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder.

         (e)  Date  of  Termination.  "Date  of  Termination"  means  (i) if the
Executive's  employment  is  terminated  by the  Company  for  Cause,  or by the
Executive for Good Reason,  the date of delivery of the Notice of Termination or
any later date specified  therein,  as the case may be, (ii) if the  Executive's
employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability,  the
Date of  Termination  shall  be the  date on  which  the  Company  notifies  the
Executive of such termination, (iii) if the Executive's employment is terminated
by reason of death or Disability,  the Date of Termination  shall be the date of
death of the Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be, and
(iv) if the Executive's  employment is terminated by the Executive  without Good
Reason, the last day of employment of the Executive with the Company.

           Section 6.    Obligations of the Company upon Termination.

         (a) Good Reason; Other Than for Cause, Death or Disability.  If, during
the Employment  Period,  the Company shall terminate the Executive's  employment
other  than  for  Cause or  Disability  or the  Executive  shall  terminate  his
employment for Good Reason:

                   (i) the Company  shall pay to the  Executive in a lump sum in
         cash within 30 days after the Date of Termination  the aggregate of the
         following amounts:

                             A.  the  sum of (1)  the  Executive's  Annual  Base
                  Salary  through  the Date of  Termination  to the  extent  not
                  theretofore  paid,  plus (2) the  product of (x) the higher of
                  (I) the Recent  Annual Bonus and (II) the Annual Bonus paid or
                  payable, including any bonus or portion thereof which has been
                  earned  but  deferred  (and  annualized  for any  fiscal  year
                  consisting of less than twelve full months or during which the
                  Executive was employed for less than twelve full months),  for
                  the most recently  completed fiscal year during the Employment
                  Period, if any (such higher amount being hereinafter  referred
                  to  as  the  "Highest  Annual  Bonus")  multiplied  by  (y)  a
                  fraction,  the numerator of which is the number of days in the
                  current fiscal year through the Date of  Termination,  and the
                  denominator  of  which  is  365  plus  (3)  any   compensation
                  previously  deferred  by  the  Executive  (together  with  any
                  accrued interest or earnings thereon) and any accrued vacation
                  pay, in each case to the extent not theretofore  paid (the sum
                  of the  amounts  described  in  clauses  (1),  (2) and (3) are
                  hereinafter referred to as the "Accrued Obligations"); and

                    B. the amount equal to the product of (1) two  multiplied by
               (2) the sum of (x) the  Executive's  Annual  Base Salary plus (y)
               the Highest Annual Bonus;

                  (ii) the Company  shall  credit as of the Date of  Termination
         the Account of the Executive  under the Littelfuse,  Inc.  Supplemental
         Executive Retirement Plan (hereinafter  referred to as the "SERP") with
         an amount equal to the sum of the two respective amounts which would be
         credited  to the  Account  of the  Executive  under the SERP on the two
         Valuation  Dates (as such term is defined in the SERP) next  succeeding
         the Date of Termination assuming (A) the Executive would continue to be
         employed by the Company up to and including said second  Valuation Date
         (hereinafter said period from the Date of Termination until said second
         Valuation Date is referred to as the "Assumed Employment Period"),  (B)
         the Compensation (as such term is defined in the SERP) of the Executive
         during each fiscal year during the Assumed  Employment  Period would be
         equal to the amount of the  Compensation  of the  Executive  during the
         most  recently  ended  Plan Year (as such term is  defined in the SERP)
         prior to the Date of  Termination,  and (C) the Company would  continue
         the SERP up to and  including  said second  Valuation  Date;  provided,
         however,  that if the Executive  would reach the age of 62 prior to the
         expiration  of the  Assumed  Employment  Period,  no  amounts  shall be
         credited  to the  Account  of the  Executive  under  the  SERP  for any
         Valuation Date occurring after the date that the Executive  reaches age
         62;

                 (iii) during the two years  following the Date of  Termination,
         the Company shall continue to provide medical insurance benefits to the
         Executive  and/or the Executive's  family at least equal to those which
         would  have  been  provided  to them in  accordance  with  the  medical
         insurance   benefits  described  in  Section  4(b)(iv)  hereof  if  the
         Executive's employment had not been terminated; provided, however, that
         if the  Executive  becomes  reemployed  with  another  employer  and is
         eligible  to  receive   medical   insurance   benefits   under  another
         employer-provided plan, the medical insurance benefits described herein
         shall be secondary to those  provided under such other plan during such
         applicable period of eligibility;

                  (iv) to the  extent  not  theretofore  paid or  provided,  the
         Company  shall timely pay or provide to the Executive any other amounts
         or benefits  required to be paid or provided or which the  Executive is
         eligible  to receive  under any plan,  program,  policy or  practice or
         contract or agreement of the Company and its affiliated companies (such
         other   amounts  and  benefits   shall   hereinafter   be  referred  to
         collectively as the "Other Benefits"); and

                   (v) notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any
         employment agreement,  benefit plan or other document, in the event the
         Executive's employment shall be terminated during the Employment Period
         by the Executive for Good Reason or by the Company other than for Cause
         or Disability, on and after the Date of Termination the Executive shall
         not be bound or prejudiced by any non-competition agreement benefitting
         the Company or its  subsidiaries,  and any provisions  contained in the
         SERP  which  would  penalize  the  Executive  for being  employed  by a
         competitor,  including,  without  limitation,  Section 3.6(c)  thereof,
         shall not apply in any respect to the  Executive  and,  effective as of
         the Date of  Termination,  the Company  waives any right to enforce any
         such provisions against the Executive.

         (b) Death. If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the
Executive's death during the Employment  Period,  this Agreement shall terminate
without   further   obligations  by  the  Company  to  the   Executive's   legal
representatives  under  this  Agreement,  other  than  for  payment  of  Accrued
Obligations  and the timely  payment or  provision  of Other  Benefits.  Accrued
Obligations  shall  be  paid  to  the  Executive's  estate  or  beneficiary,  as
applicable,  in a lump sum in cash  within  30 days of the Date of  Termination.
With respect to the provision of Other  Benefits,  the term "Other  Benefits" as
utilized  in this  Section  6(b)  shall  include,  without  limitation,  and the
Executive's estate and/or  beneficiaries shall be entitled to receive,  benefits
at least  equal to the most  favorable  benefits  provided  by the  Company  and
affiliated  companies to the estates and beneficiaries of peer executives of the
Company and such affiliated companies under such plans, programs,  practices and
policies relating to death benefits,  if any, as in effect with respect to other
peer  executives and their  beneficiaries  at any time during the 120-day period
immediately preceding the Effective Date.

         (c) Disability.  If the Executive's  employment is terminated by reason
of the Executive's Disability during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall
terminate without further obligations by the Company to the Executive under this
Agreement,  other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment
or  provision  of  Other  Benefits.  Accrued  Obligations  shall  be paid to the
Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination.  With
respect  to the  provision  of Other  Benefits,  the term  "Other  Benefits"  as
utilized in this Section 6(c) shall include, and the Executive shall be entitled
after the Disability Effective Date to receive, disability and other benefits at
least equal to the most favorable of those generally provided by the Company and
its  affiliated  companies  to  disabled  executives  and/or  their  families in
accordance  with such  plans,  programs,  practices  and  policies  relating  to
disability, if any, as in effect generally with respect to other peer executives
and their families at any time during the 120-day period  immediately  preceding
the Effective Date.

         (d) Cause;  Other than for Good Reason.  If the Executive's  employment
shall be terminated for Cause during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall
terminate without further obligations to the Executive other than the obligation
to pay to the  Executive  (x)  his  Annual  Base  Salary  through  the  Date  of
Termination,  (y) the  amount of any  compensation  previously  deferred  by the
Executive,  and (z)  Other  Benefits,  in each  case to the  extent  theretofore
unpaid.  If the  Executive  voluntarily  terminates  his  employment  during the
Employment Period, excluding a termination for Good Reason, this Agreement shall
terminate without further obligations of the Company to the Executive under this
Agreement,  other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment
or provision of Other Benefits.  In such case, all Accrued  Obligations shall be
paid to the  Executive  in a lump  sum in  cash  within  30 days of the  Date of
Termination  and the Company  shall timely pay or provide the Other  Benefits to
the Executive.  In no event shall the Executive be liable to the Company for any
damages  caused by such  voluntary  termination  by the  Executive nor shall the
Executive be in any way restricted  from being employed by any other party after
such voluntary termination.

           Section 7. Nonexclusivity of Rights.  Nothing in this Agreement shall
prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any plan,
program,  policy or practice  provided  by the Company or any of its  affiliated
companies and for which the Executive may qualify, nor, subject to Section 12(f)
hereof,  shall  anything  herein  limit or  otherwise  affect such rights as the
Executive  may have under any contract or  agreement  with the Company or any of
its  affiliated  companies.  Amounts  which  are  vested  benefits  or which the
Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan,  policy,  practice or
program  of or  any  contract  or  agreement  with  the  Company  or  any of its
affiliated  companies  at or  subsequent  to the  Date of  Termination  shall be
payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or
agreement, except as explicitly modified by this Agreement.

           Section 8. Full  Settlement.  The  Company's  obligation  to make the
payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations
hereunder  shall  not be  affected  by any  set-off,  counterclaim,  recoupment,
defense or other  claim,  right or action which the Company may have against the
Executive or others.  In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other
employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts  payable
to the Executive  under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts
shall not be reduced whether or not the Executive obtains other employment.  The
Company agrees to pay as incurred,  to the fullest extent  permitted by law, all
legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably  incur as a result of
any contest by the Company,  the  Executive or others in which the  Executive is
the  prevailing  party  and  which  involves  or  relates  to  the  validity  or
enforceability  of, or liability  under,  any provision of this Agreement or any
guarantee of  performance  thereof  (including as a result of any contest by the
Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this  Agreement),  plus in
each case  interest on any delayed  payment from the due date thereof until paid
at the prime rate from time to time reported in The Wall Street  Journal  during
said period.

           Section 9. Certain Additional  Payments by the Company.  (a) Anything
in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding and except as set forth below,
in the event it shall be  determined  that any  payment or  distribution  by the
Company  to or for the  benefit  of the  Executive  (whether  paid or payable or
distributed  or  distributable  pursuant  to the  terms  of  this  Agreement  or
otherwise,  but determined  without regard to any additional  payments  required
under this  Section 9)  (hereinafter  referred to  collectively  as a "Payment")
would be subject to the  excise tax  imposed by Section  4999 of the Code or any
interest or penalties are incurred by the Executive  with respect to such excise
tax (such  excise  tax,  together  with any such  interest  and  penalties,  are
hereinafter  collectively  referred to as the "Excise Tax"),  then the Executive
shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (a "Gross-Up  Payment") in an
amount such that,  after  payment by the Executive of all taxes  (including  any
interest or penalties  imposed with respect to such taxes),  including,  without
limitation,  any income  taxes (and any  interest  and  penalties  imposed  with
respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive
retains an amount of the Gross-Up  Payment  equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon
the Payments.

         (b)  Subject  to  the   provisions   of  Section   9(c)   hereof,   all
determinations  required to be made under this Section 9, including  whether and
when a Gross-Up  Payment is required and the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and
the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination,  shall be made
by Ernst & Young LLP or such other independent  certified public accounting firm
as  may  be  designated  by  the  Executive  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  the
"Accounting Firm") which shall provide detailed supporting  calculations both to
the Company and the  Executive  within 15 business days of the receipt of notice
from the  Executive  that there has been a Payment,  or such  earlier time as is
requested by the Company.  In the event that the  Accounting  Firm is serving as
accountant or auditor for the  individual,  entity or group effecting the Change
of Control, the Executive shall appoint another nationally recognized accounting
firm to make the determinations  required hereunder (which accounting firm shall
then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder).  All fees and expenses of
the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company.  Any Gross-Up Payment,
as  determined  pursuant to this  Section 9, shall be paid by the Company to the
Executive   within   five  days  of  the  receipt  of  the   Accounting   Firm's
determination.  Any  determination  by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon
the Company and the Executive. As a result of the uncertainty in the application
of  Section  4999 of the Code at the time of the  initial  determination  by the
Accounting Firm hereunder,  it is possible that Gross-Up Payments which will not
have been made by the Company should have been made (hereinafter  referred to as
the  "Underpayment")  consistent  with  the  calculations  required  to be  made
hereunder.  In the event that the  Company  exhausts  its  remedies  pursuant to
Section 9(c) hereof and the  Executive  thereafter is required to make a payment
of any  Excise  Tax,  the  Accounting  Firm  shall  determine  the amount of the
Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment  shall be promptly paid
by the Company to or for the benefit of the Executive.

         (c) The  Executive  shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by
the Internal  Revenue Service that, if successful,  would require the payment by
the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as
practicable  but no later than ten business days after the Executive is informed
in  writing of such claim and shall  apprise  the  Company of the nature of such
claim and the date on which such claim is  requested to be paid.  The  Executive
shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period  following
the date on which it gives such notice to the Company  (or such  shorter  period
ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due).
If the Company notifies the Executive in writing prior to the expiration of such
period that it desires to contest such claim, the Executive shall:

                    (i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by
               the Company relating to such claim,

                  (ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim
         as the Company shall  reasonably  request in writing from time to time,
         including,  without  limitation,  accepting legal  representation  with
         respect  to  such  claim  by an  attorney  reasonably  selected  by the
         Company,

                 (iii)  cooperate  with  the  Company  in good  faith  in  order
         effectively to contest such claim, and

                    (iv) permit the Company to  participate  in any  proceedings
               relating to such claim;

provided,  however,  that the Company  shall bear and pay directly all costs and
expenses  (including  additional  interest and penalties) incurred in connection
with such contest and shall  indemnify  and hold the Executive  harmless,  on an
after-tax  basis,  for any  Excise  Tax or income tax  (including  interest  and
penalties with respect thereto) imposed as a result of such  representation  and
payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of
this Section 9(c), the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection
with such  contest  and,  at its sole  option,  may  pursue or forgo any and all
administrative  appeals,  proceedings,  hearings and conferences with the taxing
authority  in respect of such claim and may, at its sole option,  either  direct
the  Executive  to pay the tax  claimed  and sue for a refund or to contest  the
claim in any  permissible  manner,  and the Executive  agrees to prosecute  such
contest to a determination  before any  administrative  tribunal,  in a court of
initial  jurisdiction and in one or more appellate  courts, as the Company shall
determine;  provided,  however, that if the Company directs the Executive to pay
such claim and sue for a refund,  the Company  shall  advance the amount of such
payment to the Executive, on an interest-free basis and shall indemnify and hold
the Executive harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax
(including  interest or penalties with respect  thereto) imposed with respect to
such advance or with respect to any imputed income with respect to such advance.
The  Company's  control of any such  contest  shall be  limited  to issues  with
respect to which a Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder and the Executive
shall be  entitled  to settle or  contest,  as the case may be, any other  issue
raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.

         (d) If, after the receipt by the Executive of an amount advanced by the
Company  pursuant to Section  9(c) hereof,  the  Executive  becomes  entitled to
receive any refund with respect to such claim,  the Executive  shall (subject to
the Company's  complying with the  requirements of Section 9(c) hereof) promptly
pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or
credited thereon after taxes applicable  thereto).  If, after the receipt by the
Executive of an amount advanced by the Company  pursuant to Section 9(c) hereof,
a  determination  is made that the Executive shall not be entitled to any refund
with  respect to such claim and the  Company  does not notify the  Executive  in
writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund  prior to the  expiration
of 30 days after such  determination,  then such  advance  shall be forgiven and
shall not be required to be repaid and the amount of such advance  shall offset,
to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.

          Section 10.  Confidential  Information.  The Executive shall hold in a
fiduciary  capacity  for the benefit of the  Company all secret or  confidential
information,  knowledge or data relating to the Company or any of its affiliated
companies,  and their respective  businesses,  which shall have been obtained by
the  Executive  during the  Executive's  employment by the Company or any of its
affiliated  companies and which shall not be or become public  knowledge  (other
than by acts by the Executive or  representatives  of the Executive in violation
of this  Agreement).  After  termination of the Executive's  employment with the
Company,  the  Executive  shall not,  without the prior  written  consent of the
Company or as may otherwise be required by law or legal process,  communicate or
divulge any such information, knowledge or data to anyone other than the Company
and those  designated  by it. In no event  shall an  asserted  violation  of the
provisions of this Section 10  constitute a basis for  deferring or  withholding
any  amounts  otherwise  payable  to the  Executive  under this  Agreement.  The
provisions of this Section 10 shall survive any termination of this Agreement or
any termination of the employment of the Executive with the Company.

     Section 11. Successors. (a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and
without the prior written  consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the
Executive  otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  This
Agreement  shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable  by the  Executive's
legal representatives.

         (b) This  Agreement  shall inure to the benefit of and be binding  upon
the Company and its successors and assigns.

         (c) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect,
by purchase, merger,  consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of
the  business  and/or  assets of the  Company to assume  expressly  and agree to
perform  this  Agreement  in the same  manner  and to the same  extent  that the
Company would be required to perform it if no such  succession  had taken place.
As used in this  Agreement,  the  term  "Company"  shall  mean  the  Company  as
hereinbefore  defined  and  any  successor  to its  business  and/or  assets  as
aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law
or otherwise.

          Section 12. Miscellaneous. (a) This Agreement shall be governed by and
construed  in  accordance  with  the  laws of the  State  of  Illinois,  without
reference to principles of conflict of laws.  This  Agreement may not be amended
or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto
or their respective successors and legal representatives.

         (b) Each notice, request, demand, approval or other communication which
may be or is required to be given under this  Agreement  shall be in writing and
shall be deemed to have been  properly  given when  delivered  personally at the
address set forth below for the intended  party during normal  business hours at
such address,  when sent by facsimile or other  electronic  transmission  to the
respective  facsimile  transmission  numbers of the parties set forth below with
telephone  confirmation of receipt, or when sent by recognized overnight courier
or by the United States registered or certified mail, return receipt  requested,
postage prepaid, addressed as follows:

                  If to the Company:

                  Littelfuse, Inc.
                  800 E. Northwest Highway
                  Des Plaines, Illinois  60016
                  Attention:  President (unless the Executive is
                                    the President, in which case the
                                    communication should be to the
                                    attention of all of the Directors
                                    of the Company other than the
                                    Executive)
                  Facsimile:  (847) 824-3864
                  Confirm:   (847) 391-0304

                  If to the Executive:

                  Philip G. Franklin
                  ======================
                  Facsimile: _____________
                  Confirm:  _____________

Notices shall be given to such other addressee or address, or both, or by way of
such other facsimile transmission number, as a particular party may from time to
time  designate  by  written  notice to the other  party  hereto.  Each  notice,
request,  demand,  approval or other  communication  which is sent in accordance
with this  Section  shall be deemed  given and received for all purposes of this
Agreement as of two business days after the date of deposit  thereof for mailing
in a duly constituted United States post office or branch thereof,  one business
day  after  deposit  with  a  recognized   overnight  courier  service  or  upon
confirmation of receipt of any facsimile  transmission.  Notice given to a party
hereto by any other method  shall only be deemed to be given and  received  when
actually received in writing by such party.

         (c)  The  invalidity  or  unenforceability  of any  provision  of  this
Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision
of this Agreement.

         (d) The  Company  may  withhold  from any  amounts  payable  under this
Agreement such Federal, state, local or foreign taxes as shall be required to be
withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.

         (e) The  Executive's  or the  Company's  failure to insist  upon strict
compliance  with any  provision  of this  Agreement  or the  failure to promptly
assert any right the  Executive  or the Company may have  hereunder,  including,
without limitation,  the right of the Executive to terminate employment for Good
Reason  pursuant  to  Section  5(c)(i)-(v)  hereof,  shall not be deemed to be a
waiver  of such  provision  or right  or any  other  provision  or right of this
Agreement.

         (f) The  Executive  and the  Company  acknowledge  that,  except as may
otherwise be provided  under any other written  agreement  between the Executive
and the Company,  the  employment  of the  Executive by the Company is "at will"
and, subject to Section 1(a) hereof and/or any other written  agreement  between
the  Executive  and the Company,  prior to the  Effective  Date the  Executive's
employment  and/or this  Agreement  may be terminated by either the Executive or
the Company at any time prior to the Effective  Date upon written  notice to the
other party, in which case the Executive shall have no further rights under this
Agreement. From and after the Effective Date, this Agreement shall supersede any
other agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.

         (g) This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts,  all of
which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

         IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the parties  hereto have  executed this Change of
Control Employment Agreement as of the day and year first above written.



                                         --------------------------------------
                                                          Philip G. Franklin


                                                          LITTELFUSE, INC.



                                     By
                                     Its_____________________________________



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 13.1
<TEXT>

Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations

The following  discussion  provides an analysis of the information  contained in
the consolidated  financial  statements and accompanying notes beginning on page
22 for the three fiscal years ended January 2, 1999.

Highlights
Sales  decreased 2% in 1998 to $269.5  million.  Contributing  to the decline in
sales was weakness in the electronic markets domestically and in Asia as well as
lower domestic  auto-motive sales. In addition,  greater than historical selling
price  declines and costs related to new product  introductions  contributed  to
lower  gross  margins in 1998.  The  company  continued  its  investment  in and
dedication to introducing new products.  During the year, the company introduced
a surface mount telecom fuse,  J-Case  automotive fuse,  downsized  packaging of
aftermarket  products  and  expanded  the line of PTC  devices to meet  customer
requirements.   The  company  also   continued  to  make   investments   in  its
manufacturing  capabilities,  successfully integrating plastic molding equipment
into  the   Switzerland   facility  and   installing   new  thin  film  capacity
domestically.

Results of Operations -- 1998 Compared with 1997
Sales  decreased 2% to $269.5  million in 1998 from $275.2  million in 1997. The
gross margin was 37.2% compared to 40.4% the prior year and operating income was
12.7% of net sales compared to 15.9% the prior year. Net income decreased 22% to
$19.9 million in 1998 from $25.3 million in 1997 and diluted  earnings per share
decreased 20% to $.86 in 1998 from $1.07 in 1997.  Sales  decreased $5.6 million
during 1998. Sales declined both in the automotive and electronics markets, with
a modest increase in power fuse sales.  Automotive  sales decreased $5.5 million
or 5% to $96.7  million in 1998 compared to $102.1  million in 1997.  Automotive
sales  were  down  domestically  as a  result  of  the  continued  phase-out  of
electromechanical  products  and  the  absence  of  any  product  fixes  by  the
automotive  OEM's in 1998.  Electronic  sales  decreased  $1.9  million or 1% to
$133.1  million  in 1998  compared  to $135.0  million  in 1997.  The  Company's
electronics  business was down due in part to continued inventory  reductions at
North  American  distributors,  weakness  in Japan and greater  than  historical
selling price declines.  Power fuse sales in-creased $1.8 million or 5% to $39.8
million in 1998 compared to $38.0 million in 1997. On a constant currency basis,
electronic  and power fuse sales  would have  increased  3 and 5%  respectively,
automotive sales would have decreased 4% and consolidated  sales would have been
flat. Led by European sales  increases,  international  sales increased by 4% in
1998 to 43.0% of net sales in 1998 from 40.6% of net sales in 1997. Gross profit
was $100.2  million  or 37.2% of sales for 1998  compared  to $111.1  million or
40.4% of sales for 1997.  The gross margin  decline  resulted  from greater than
historical  selling price  reductions,  lower volumes than anticipated and costs
associated with the  introduction of new products in  1998.Selling,  general and
administrative  expenses  declined  $1.3  million  to  18.9% of sales in 1998 as
compared  to 19.0% of sales in 1997 as a  result  of the  decline  in sales  and
favorable expense control during 1998.  Research and development costs increased
$0.5  million to 3.1% of sales in 1998 as  compared to 2.9% of sales in 1997 due
to the continued  development of new products.  Amortization  of  reorganization
value and other  intangibles was $6.8 million or 2.5% of sales for 1998 compared
to $7.2 million or 2.6% of sales for the prior year.  Total operating  expenses,
including intangible amortization,  were 24.5% of sales for both years.Operating
income for 1998 was $34.1 million or 12.7% of sales compared to $43.8 million or
15.9% of sales the prior year.  The decline in operating  margin  resulted  from
decreases in gross margin.  Interest  expense was $4.0 million for 1998 compared
to $4.1 million for 1997. Other expense, net, consisting of royalties,  minority
interest  adjustments  and foreign  currency items was $0.1 million  compared to
other income of $1.0 million the prior year.  Also  included in other expense in
1998 were charges related to the liquidation of SamHwa  Littelfuse  amounting to
approximately  $0.4  million.  Income  before  taxes was $30.0  million  in 1998
compared to $40.7 million in 1997.  Income tax expense was $10.1 million in 1998
compared to $15.3 million the prior year.  The company's  effective tax rate was
33.7 % in 1998  compared to 37.7 % in 1997.  The  decrease in income tax expense
resulted  from lower income  before taxes as well as a one-time  benefit of $1.1
million  related to the  liquidation of Sam Hwa  Littelfuse.  Net income for the
year was $19.9 million in 1998 compared to $25.3 million the prior year. Diluted
earnings per share decreased to $0.86 in 1998 compared to $1.07 in 1997.

1997 Compared with 1996
Sales  increased 14% to $275.2  million in 1997 from $241.4 million in 1996. The
gross margin was 40.4% compared to 40.7% the prior year and operating income was
15.9% of net sales compared to 15.6% the prior year. Net income increased 17% to
$25.3 million in 1997 from $21.7 million in 1996 and diluted  earnings per share
increased 18% to $1.07 in 1997 from $.91 in 1996.  Sales increased $33.7 million
during 1997. The sales growth was strongest in the electronics segment, followed
by automotive and power fuses.  Electronic  sales increased $22.6 million or 20%
to $135.0 million in 1997 compared to $112.4  million in 1996.  The  electronics
business was very strong in personal computers, tele- and data-communications as
well as consumer  electronics  throughout  the year.  Electronics  sales enjoyed
significant growth in Asia-Pacific, Europe and North America in 1997. Automotive
sales  increased  $8.4 million or 9% to $102.1 million in 1997 compared to $93.7
million in 1996.  Automotive  sales were very strong in the OEM  markets,  while
they declined  slightly in the  automotive  aftermarkets  on a worldwide  basis.
Power fuse sales  increased $2.6 million or 7% to $38.0 million in 1997 compared
to $35.4 million in 1996. The company believes that its power fuse business grew
twice as fast as the underlying  markets for capital  equipment and construction
spending during 1997.On a constant  currency basis,  European sales growth would
have been 16% rather than the 5% reported,  Asia-Pacific sales growth would have
been 36% rather than the 32% reported,  and consolidated sales growth would have
been 16% rather than the 14%  reported.  Led by  increases in  Asia-Pacific  and
European  sales,  international  sales  increased by 20% in 1997 to 40.6% of net
sales in 1997 from 38.5% of net sales in 1996.Gross profit was $111.1 million or
40.4% of sales for 1997  compared  to $98.3  million or 40.7% of sales for 1996.
The gross margin  decline of 32 basis points was  primarily  caused by the lower
margins of our new China and Korean  operations having a greater impact than our
margin  improvements  due to cost  reductions and spreading our fixed costs over
higher sales in North America and Europe.  Selling,  general and  administrative
expenses  increased  $5.9 million to 19.0% of sales in 1997 as compared to 19.2%
of sales in 1996 as a result of the increase in sales during 1997.  Research and
development costs increased $0.6 million to 2.9% of sales in 1997 as compared to
3.0%  of  sales  in  1996.  Amor-tization  of  reorganization  value  and  other
intangibles  was 2.6% of sales for 1997  compared to 2.9% the prior year.  Total
operating expenses,  including intangible amortization,  were 24.5% of sales for
1997  compared  to 25.1% of sales for  1996.Operating  income for 1997 was $43.8
million or 15.9% of sales  compared to $37.7 million or 15.6% of sales the prior
year.Interest  expense was $4.1  million for 1997  compared to $4.2  million for
1996 due to declining debt levels during the year. Other income, net, consisting
of  royalties,   minority  interest  adjustments,   revaluation  of  the  Korean
non-compete  agreement and government  grants, was $1.0 million compared to $0.7
million the prior year.  Income  before taxes was $40.7 million in 1997 compared
to $34.1 million in 1996.  Income tax expense was $15.3 million in 1997 compared
to $12.4 million the prior year.  The company's  effective tax rate was 37.7% in
1997  compared  to 36.3% in 1996.  Net income for the year was $25.3  million in
1997  compared  to $21.7  million  the prior year.  Diluted  earnings  per share
increased to $1.07 in 1997 compared to $0.91 in 1996.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
Assuming no material adverse changes in market  conditions,  management  expects
that the company will have  sufficient  cash from operations to support both its
operations  and its debt  obligations  for the  foreseeable  future.  Littelfuse
started  1998 with $0.8 million of cash.  Net cash  provided by  operations  was
$39.3 million for the year. Cash used to invest in property, plant and equipment
was $21.3 million, to invest in product acquisitions for electrostatic discharge
devices  and  medium  voltage  power  fuses  was  $2.8  million  and  to  make a
non-compete  payment was $0.2  million.  Cash  provided by financing  activities
included net proceeds of long-term  debt of $33.9 million due to a $60.0 million
private  placement of new senior notes and  renegotiation  of the existing  bank
credit  agreement.  Terms of the new bank credit agreement  provide for a credit
line of $55.0  that was  unused as of  January  2,  1999.  The  purchase  of the
company's  common stock for $26.8 million was partially  offset by cash proceeds
from the exercise of stock  options and  conversion of warrants of $6.3 million.
The effect of exchange rate changes  decreased cash by $1.1 million.  The net of
cash  provided  by  operations,   less  investing  activities,   less  financing
activities,  plus the effect of exchange  rates  resulted in a $27.2 million net
increase in cash.  This left the company with a cash balance of $28.0 million at
the end of  1998.Net  working  capital  used  $2.8  million  of cash  flow  from
operations  for 1998.  Lower  inventory  and  prepaid  and other  items were the
primary  cash  providers,  offset by an increase in  accounts  receivable  and a
decrease in accounts  payable.Littelfuse started 1997 with $1.4 million of cash.
Net cash  provided by operations  was $36.8  million for the year.  Cash used to
invest in property,  plant and equipment was $18.9  million,  to invest in a new
Korean  acquisition  called  Samjoo was $5.3  million and to make a  non-compete
payment  was $0.4  million.  Cash  used in  financing  activities  included  net
payments of  long-term  debt of $5.2  million.  The  purchase  of the  company's
warrants and common stock for $8.6 million was partially offset by cash proceeds
from the exercise of stock options of $1.0 million.  The effect of exchange rate
changes decreased cash by $0.1 million.  The net of cash provided by operations,
less  investing  activities,  less  financing  activities,  plus the  effect  of
exchange  rates  resulted in a $0.7 million net decrease in cash.  This left the
company  with a cash  balance of $0.8  million at the end of 1997.  Net  working
capital  used $9.4  million  of cash flow from  operations  for 1997.  All asset
categories used working capital.  Accounts receivable increased $3.3 million and
inventory increased $8.3 million. Most accruals provided working capital for the
year.  Accounts  payable,  accrued payroll,  and accrued and deferred taxes each
increased by a little less than $1 million and  collectively  provided  funds of
over $2.5 million.  Accrued  expenses  declined $0.6 million using funds of that
amount.  The company's  capital  expenditures  were $21.3 million in 1998, $18.9
million in 1997 and $17.1  million in 1996.  The company  expects  that  capital
expenditures will be approximately $22 million in 1999. The primary purposes for
capital  expenditures  in  1999  will  be for new  product  tooling,  production
equipment and information  systems. As in 1998, capital expenditures in 1999 are
expected  to be  financed by cash flow from  operations.  The company  increased
total debt by $33.9 million in 1998,  after  decreasing  debt by $5.2 million in
1997 and  increasing  debt by $4.2  million in 1996.  The company is required to
repay $14.0 million of long-term debt in 1999.  During 1998, the company's Board
of Directors  authorized the company to repurchase up to 2,000,000 shares of its
common stock or  2,000,000 of its  warrants,  or any  combination  not to exceed
2,000,000  shares of common stock or warrants,  from time to time,  depending on
market  conditions.  The company  repurchased  1,345,000 common shares for $26.8
million in 1998,  210,000 warrants and 205,000 common shares for $8.6 million in
1997 and 1,342,000 warrants and 570,000 common shares for $26.8 million in 1996.
As of January 2, 1999, the company had over 700,000 shares remaining under Board
of Directors  authorization  expiring in May of 1999.  Earnings before interest,
taxes,  depreciation,   amortization  and  other  income  and  expense  (EBITDA)
decreased  12% to $56.3  million  in 1998 from  $64.1  million  in 1997.  EBITDA
increased 9% to $64.1  million in 1997 from $58.7  million in 1996.  Net working
capital (working capital less cash and the current portion of long-term debt) as
a % of sales was 17.3% at year-end  1998  compared to 15.1% at year-end 1997 and
to 13.0% at year-end 1996.  The increase in net working  capital was due in part
to  the  increase  in  days  sales   outstanding   in  accounts   receivable  to
approximately  61 days at year-end 1998 compared to 55 days at year-end 1997 and
52 days at year-end 1996. The ratio of current assets to current liabilities was
2.1 to 1 at year-end  1998 compared to 1.6 to 1 at year-end 1997 and 1.4 to 1 at
year-end  1996.  The ratio of long-term  debt to equity was 0.6 to 1 at year end
1998 compared to 0.3 to 1 at year-end 1997 and 0.4 to 1 at year-end 1996.

Year 2000
The  company  utilizes  software,  hardware  and related  computer  technologies
essential to its operations  that use two digits rather than four to specify the
applicable  year,  which could  result in a date  recognition  problem  with the
transition  to  the  year  2000.  The  company  presently   believes  that  with
modifications or replacements of existing  software and certain  hardware,  date
recognition problems associated with the year 2000 can be mitigated. However, if
such  modifications  and replacement are not made, or are not completed  timely,
the year 2000 transition  could have a material  adverse effect on the company's
consolidated results of operations. To date, the company has fully completed its
assessment  of all  mission-critical  systems.  Assessments  of  other  systems,
including operating equipment systems,  which could be significantly affected by
the year 2000 are underway.  The completed  assessments have indicated that most
of the company's significant  information  technology systems could be affected,
particularly the order entry,  billing and inventory systems.  In addition,  the
company has gathered  information  about the year 2000 compliance  status of its
significant  customers,  suppliers and  subcontractors  and continues to monitor
their  compliance.As  of January 2, 1999,  the company had  completed 40% of the
remediation phase for its information  technology,  operating  equipment systems
and  external  interface  exposures.  The company  expects to complete  software
reprogramming  and replacement as well as testing of all significant  systems no
later than May 1, 1999. All  remediated  systems are expected to be fully tested
and  implemented  by June 30,  1999.  The company  has  queried its  significant
suppliers and  subcontractors,  none of which share information systems with the
company ("external  agents").  To date, the company is not aware of any external
agent with a year 2000 issue that would materially  impact the company's results
of operations, liquidity or capital resources. However, the company has no means
of ensuring  that  external  agents will be year 2000 ready.  The  inability  of
external  agents to  complete  their  year 2000  resolution  process in a timely
fashion  could  materially  impact the  company.  The company  will utilize both
internal and external resources to reprogram or replace, test, and implement the
software,   operating   equipment   and  external   interfaces   for  year  2000
modifications. The total cost of projects that relate to year 2000 compliance is
estimated at $12.0  million and is being funded  through  operating  cash flows.
Through  January 2, 1999, the company has incurred costs totaling  approximately
$4.9  million,  $0.6 of which  has  been  expensed  and  $4.3 of which  has been
capitalized,  related to all phases of the year 2000 project.  Management of the
company  believes  it has an  effective  program  in place to  become  year 2000
compliant in a timely manner.  As noted above, the company has not yet completed
all  necessary  phases of the year 2000  program.  In the event that the company
does not complete any additional  phases, the company would be unable to use its
electronic  systems to take  customer  orders,  manufacture  and ship  products,
invoice customers or collect payments.  In addition,  disruptions in the economy
generally resulting from year 2000 issues could also materially adversely affect
the company.  The company could be subject to litigation  for computer sys- tems
failure,  equipment  shutdown or failure to properly date business records.  The
company  currently  has no  contingency  plans in place in the event it does not
complete  all phases of the year 2000 pro- gram.  The company  plans to evaluate
the status of  completion  in March 1999 and  determine  whether  such a plan is
necessary.  The company believes that the foregoing statements are in conformity
with the Year 2000 Information and Readiness Disclosure Act (Public Law 105-271,
112 Stat. 2386), and all of the foregoing statements are designated as year 2000
readiness disclosures thereunder.
The protection of this act does not apply to federal securities fraud.

Outlook
Littelfuse has  experienced  compounded  annual sales growth of 11% for the last
five  years.  Sales  growth  is  expected  in 1999,  fueled  in part by sales of
products  introduced  in 1998 and continued  increases in the European  segment.
Although  the company  expects  that  growth  will  resume in 1999,  the rate is
expected to be lower than the last  five-year  average.  In an attempt to offset
continued selling price pressures from its customers,  the company has increased
cost reduction  efforts  worldwide.  The company expects that these efforts will
favorably affect the gross margin  percentage in 1999. In addition,  new product
introduction  costs that  negatively  affected  the gross margin in 1998 are not
expected to be as significant in 1999. The  development of new products,  global
expansion,  and  reinvestment  continue  to  be  Littelfuse's  long-term  growth
strategy. Accordingly, the company intends to continue its commitment to funding
research and development,  international market development,  and investments in
capital equipment and operations improvements.

Safe Harbor"  Statement under the Private  Securities  Litigation  Reform Act of
1995 The statements under "Outlook",  "Year 2000" and the other statements which
are not historical facts contained in this report are forward-looking statements
that involve risks and  uncertainties,  including,  but not limited to,  product
demand and market  acceptance  risks,  the effect of  economic  conditions,  the
impact   of   competitive    products   and   pricing,    product   development,
commercialization  and  technological  difficulties,  year 2000 issues discussed
above, capacity and supply constraints or difficulties, the results of financing
efforts,  actual  purchases  under  agreements,  the  effect  of  the  company's
accounting  policies,  and other risks  which may be  detailed in the  company's
Securities and Exchange Commission filings.



<PAGE>




Report of Independent Auditors
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Littelfuse, Inc.

We  have  audited  the  consolidated   statements  of  financial   condition  of
Littelfuse,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  as of January 2, 1999, and January 3, 1998,
and the related  consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders'  equity, and
cash  flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  January 2, 1999.
These financial  statements are the responsibility of the Company's  management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based
on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted
auditing  standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial  statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial  statement
presentation.  We believe  that our audits  provide a  reasonable  basis for our
opinion.  In our opinion,  the  financial  statements  referred to above present
fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial  position  of
Littelfuse, Inc. and subsidiaries as of January 2, 1999 and January 3, 1998, and
the  consolidated  results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of
the three  years in the  period  ended  January  2,  1999,  in  conformity  with
generally accepted accounting principles.

Chicago, Illinois
January 26, 1999




<PAGE>

<TABLE>

Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
(thousands of dollars)

Assets                                                                               January 2, 1999        January 3, 1998
Current assets:
<S>                                                                                      <C>               <C>           
     Cash and cash equivalents                                                           $   27,961        $          755
     Accounts receivable, less allowances
        (1998 - $5,885; 1997 - $5,899)                                                       41,382                37,458
     Inventories                                                                             36,209                39,075
     Deferred income taxes                                                                    2,456                 3,672
     Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                                3,090                 2,896
Total current assets                                                                        111,098                83,856

Property, plant, and equipment:
     Land                                                                                     6,753                 6,355
     Buildings                                                                               25,682                23,152
     Equipment                                                                              131,136               111,723
                                                                                            163,571               141,230

     Less: Allowances for depreciation and amortization                                      85,783                70,467
                                                                                             77,788                70,763

Intangible assets, net of amortization:
     Reorganization value in excess of amounts
        allocable to identifiable assets                                                     37,814                41,202
     Patents and licenses                                                                     6,522                 8,785
     Distribution network                                                                     6,412                 7,126
     Trademarks                                                                               3,275                 3,527
     Other                                                                                    5,940                 3,348
                                                                                             59,963                63,988
Other assets                                                                                  1,695                 3,278
                                                                                           $250,544              $221,885




<PAGE>



Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition (continued)
(thousands of dollars)

Liabilities and shareholders' equity                                                 January 2, 1999        January 3, 1998
Current liabilities:
     Accounts payable                                                                  $      9,926            $   13,858
     Accrued payroll                                                                         12,555                10,316
     Accrued expenses                                                                         7,929                 7,427
     Accrued income taxes                                                                     6,042                 9,952
     Current portion of long-term debt                                                       15,515                10,172
Total current liabilities                                                                    51,967                51,725

Long-term debt, less current portion                                                         70,061                40,385
Deferred income taxes                                                                         3,951                 6,205
Minority interest in subsidiary                                                                  41                    65

Shareholders' equity:
     Preferred stock, par value $.01 per share: 1,000,000 shares
        authorized; no shares issued and outstanding                                              --                     --
     Common stock, par value $.01 per share: 38,000,000 shares
        authorized; shares issued and outstanding,
        1998 - 20,023,520; 1997 - 19,873,140                                                    200                   199
     Additional paid-in capital                                                              55,537                52,540
     Notes receivable - Common stock                                                         (2,772)               (1,960)
     Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                                    (3,726)               (4,767)
     Retained earnings                                                                       75,285                77,493
                                                                                            124,524               123,505
                                                                                           $250,544              $221,885
See accompanying notes.

</TABLE>




<PAGE>

<TABLE>

Consolidated Statements of Income
(in thousands of dollars, except per share amounts)

Year ended                                                      January 2, 1999      January 3, 1998   December 28, 1996
<S>                                                                  <C>                   <C>                   <C>     
Net sales                                                            $269,540              $275,165              $241,446
Cost of sales                                                         169,341               164,034               143,158
Gross profit                                                          100,199               111,131                98,288

Selling, general and administrative expenses                           50,936                52,226                46,281
Research and development expenses                                       8,387                 7,927                 7,330
Amortization of intangibles                                             6,780                 7,210                 7,008
Operating income                                                       34,096                43,768                37,669

Interest expense                                                        3,989                 4,103                 4,235
Other expense/(income), net                                                98                 (987)                 (660)
Income before income taxes                                             30,009                40,652                34,094
Income taxes                                                           10,124                15,310                12,359
Net income                                                         $   19,885            $   25,342            $   21,735

Net income per share:
     Basic                                                     $         0.97         $        1.28         $        1.09
     Diluted                                                   $         0.86         $        1.07         $        0.91

Weighted-average shares and equivalent shares outstanding:
     Basic                                                             20,474                19,824                19,888
     Diluted                                                           23,154                23,623                23,801

See accompanying notes.
</TABLE>





<PAGE>
<TABLE>


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(thousands of dollars)

Year ended                                                    January 2, 1999        January 3, 1998   December 28, 1996
Operating activities
<S>                                                                  <C>                   <C>                   <C>     
     Net income                                                      $ 19,885              $ 25,342              $ 21,735
     Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
           provided by operating activities:
        Depreciation                                                   15,426                13,184                14,057
        Amortization of intangibles                                     6,780                 7,210                 7,008
        Provision for bad debts                                           626                   410                   236
        Deferred income taxes                                            (896)                  215                  (962)
        Other                                                             326                  (159)                 (411)
        Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
           Accounts receivable                                         (3,218)               (3,331)               (5,630)
           Inventories                                                  3,610                (8,281)               (1,816)
           Accounts payable and accrued expenses                       (4,992)                1,950                 6,550
           Prepaid expenses and other                                   1,757                   217                  (424)
     Net cash provided by operating activities                         39,304                36,757                40,343

Investing activities
     Purchases of property, plant, and equipment, net                 (21,320)              (18,936)              (17,094)
     Purchase of business, net of cash acquired                        (2,751)               (5,268)                   --
     Other                                                               (249)                 (357)                 (341)
     Net cash used in investing activities                            (24,320)              (24,561)              (17,435)

Financing activities
     Proceeds (payments) of long-term debt, net                        33,851                (5,192)                4,196
     Proceeds from exercise of stock options and warrants               6,308                 1,055                   276
     Purchases of common stock and redemption of warrants             (26,803)               (8,642)              (26,845)
     Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities               13,356               (12,779)              (22,373)

     Effect of exchange rate changes on cash                           (1,134)                  (89)                 (416)
     Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                  27,206                  (672)                  119
     Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                       755                 1,427                 1,308
     Cash and cash equivalents at end of year                        $ 27,961          $        755            $    1,427

See accompanying notes.

</TABLE>




<PAGE>

<TABLE>

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
(thousands of dollars)

                                                                               Notes  Accumulated
                                                           Additional  Receivable-         Other
                                               Common       Paid-In       Common  Comprehensive Retained
Period from January 1, 1996 to January 2, 1999 Stock       Capital           Stock Income/(Loss)    Earnings       Total
<S>                <C>                              <C>      <C>        <C>           <C>           <C>          <C>     
Balance at January 1, 1996                          202      $ 71,494   $     (571)   $    (120)    $ 42,377     $113,382
    Comprehensive income:
       Net income for the year                        -             -            -            -       21,735       21,735
       Foreign currency translation adjustment        -             -            -         (750)           -         (750)
    Comprehensive income                                                                                           20,985
    Stock options and warrants exercised              2         1,997         (899)           -            -        1,100
    Purchase of 570,260 shares of common stock       (6)       (1,986)           -            -       (7,917)      (9,909)
    Redemption of 1,342,120 warrants                  -       (16,936)           -            -            -      (16,936)

Balance at December 28, 1996                        198        54,569       (1,470)        (870)      56,195      108,622
    Comprehensive income:
       Net income for the year                        -             -            -            -       25,342       25,342
       Foreign currency translation adjustment        -             -            -       (3,897)           -       (3,897)
    Comprehensive income                                                                                           21,445
    Stock options and warrants exercised              3         2,567         (490)           -            -        2,080
    Purchase of 205,000 shares of common stock       (2)         (720)           -            -       (4,044)      (4,766)
    Redemption of 210,250 warrants                    -        (3,876)           -            -            -       (3,876)

Balance at January 3, 1998                          199        52,540       (1,960)      (4,767)      77,493      123,505
    Comprehensive income:
       Net income for the year                        -             -            -            -       19,885       19,885
       Foreign currency translation adjustment        -             -            -        1,041            -        1,041
    Comprehensive income                                                                                           20,926
    Stock options and warrants exercised             15         7,693         (812)           -            -        6,896
    Purchase of 1,345,300 shares of common stock    (14)       (4,696)           -            -      (22,093)     (26,803)

Balance at January 2, 1999                          200      $ 55,537      $(2,772)     $(3,726)    $ 75,285     $124,524

See accompanying notes.

</TABLE>





<PAGE>


1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
and Other Information

Nature of  Operations  Littelfuse,  Inc. and its  subsidiaries  (the  "Company")
design, manufacture, and sell fuses and other circuit protection devices for use
in the automotive,  electronic,  and general  industrial  markets throughout the
world.  The Company also  manufactures and supplies  relays,  switches,  circuit
breakers,  and indicator lights to the automotive  industry and to appliance and
general electronics manufacturers.

Fiscal Year Effective  January 1, 1996, the Company  changed its fiscal year-end
from December 31 to a 52-53-week  year ending on the Saturday  nearest  December
31. The  Company's  fiscal years ended  January 2, 1999,  and December 28, 1996,
contained 52 weeks. The Company's  fiscal year ended January 3, 1998,  contained
53 weeks.

Principles of Consolidation The consolidated  financial  statements  include the
accounts of Littelfuse, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

Cash Equivalents All highly liquid investments,  with a maturity of three months
or less when purchased, are considered to be cash equivalents.

Fair Value of Financial  Instruments The Company's financial instruments include
cash and cash  equivalents,  accounts  re-ceivables,  and  long-term  debt.  The
carrying values of such financial  instruments  approximate their estimated fair
values.

Accounts  Receivable  The Company  performs  credit  eval-uations  of customers'
financial condition and generally does not require collateral. Credit losses are
provided  for in the  financial  statements  and  consistently  have been within
management's expectations.

Inventories  Inventories  are stated at the lower of cost  (first in,  first out
method) or market, which approximates current replacement cost.

Property,  Plant,  and Equipment Land,  buildings,  and equipment are carried at
cost.  Depreciation is provided under accelerated  methods using useful lives of
21 years for buildings,  7 to 9 years for  equipment,  and 7 years for furniture
and  fixtures.   Tooling  and  computer   software  are  depreciated  using  the
straight-line method over 5 years and 3 years, respectively.

Intangible  Assets  Reorganization  value in  excess  of  amounts  allocable  to
identifiable assets and trademarks are amortized using the straight-line  method
over 20 years.  Patents are amortized using the straight-line  method over their
estimated useful lives,  which average  approximately 10 years. The distribution
network is amortized  using an  accelerated  method over 20 years.  Licenses are
amortized using an accel-erated  method over their estimated useful lives, which
average approximately 9 years. Other intangible assets consist principally of an
agreement-not-to-compete  that is being  amortized  over the 3-year  term of the
agreement and goodwill that is being amortized over 10 to 20 years.  Accumulated
amortization  of these  intangible  assets was $46.1 million at January 2, 1999,
and $39.9 million at January 3, 1998.

Revenue  Recognition Sales and associated costs are recognized when products are
shipped to customers.

Advertising  Costs The Company  expenses  advertising  costs as  incurred  which
amounted to $2.6  million in 1998,  $2.8  million in 1997,  and $2.7  million in
1996.

Foreign Currency  Translation The financial  statements of foreign entities have
been translated in accordance with Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards
(SFAS) No. 52, "Foreign  Currency  Translation,"  and,  accordingly,  unrealized
foreign  currency  translation  adjustments  are  reflected  as a  component  of
shareholders' equity.

Stock-Based  Compensation Under the provisions of SFAS No. 123,  "Accounting for
Stock-Based  Compensation"  (SFAS 123),  the Company  accounts  for stock option
grants to employees and directors in accordance with Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting  for Stock Issued to Employees." The Company grants
stock  options for a fixed number of shares with an exercise  price equal to the
market price of the underlying stock at the date of grant and, accordingly, does
not recognize compensation expense.

Use of Estimates The  preparation  of financial  statements  in conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Comprehensive  Income In June 1997,  the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board
(FASB) issued SFAS No. 130,  "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income" (SFAS 130). SFAS
130 establishes  standards for reporting and display of comprehensive income and
its  components in the financial  statements.  The Company  adopted SFAS 130 for
fiscal  1998.  The Company has chosen to disclose  comprehensive  income,  which
encompasses  net income and foreign  currency  translation  adjustments,  in the
consolidated  statements of shareholders' equity. Prior years have been restated
to conform to SFAS 130 requirements.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No.
131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information" (SFAS
131).  SFAS  131  establishes  standards  for the way in which  public  business
enterprises  report  information  about operating  segments in annual  financial
statements  and  interim  financial  reports  issued  to  shareholders.  It also
establishes  standards  for related  disclosures  about  products and  services,
geographic  areas, and major customers.  The Company adopted SFAS 131 for fiscal
1998. (See Note 8.)

In March 1998,  the  Accounting  Standards  Executive  Committee  (ACSEC) issued
Statement  of Position  98-1,  "Accounting  for the Costs of  Computer  Software
Developed or Obtained for Internal Use" (SOP 98-1).  SOP 98-1 provides  guidance
on accounting for costs incurred on software  obtained or developed for internal
use. The Company adopted SOP 98-1 in the first quarter of fiscal 1998.

Reclassifications Certain amounts in the 1997 and 1996 financial statements have
been reclassified to conform with the 1998 financial statement presentation.

2. Acquisition of Business and Liquidation

On May 30,  1997,  the  Company  invested  $5.3  million in  exchange  for a 97%
interest in Samjoo Elec.  Ind. Co. Ltd., a Korean fuse  manufacturer,  now doing
business as Littelfuse  Triad.  This  acquisition has been accounted for through
the use of the purchase  method of  accounting;  accordingly,  the  accompanying
financial statements include the results of its operations since the acquisition
date.  Goodwill arising from this  acquisition of approximately  $2.9 million is
being  amortized over 20 years.  Pro forma results of operations,  assuming this
acquisition had occurred as of January 1, 1996, would not differ materially from
reported results of operations.

During the year ended  January 2, 1999,  the Company made two  acquisitions  for
approximately $2.8 million. The acquisitions have been accounted for through the
use  of  the  purchase  method  of  accounting;  accordingly,  the  accompanying
financial  statements  include the results of operations  since the  acquisition
dates. Goodwill arising from these acquisitions of approximately $2.6 million is
being amortized over 10 years.  Pro forma results of operations,  assuming these
acquisitions had occurred as of December 29, 1996,  would not differ  materially
from reported results of operations.

In March 1998, the Company  consolidated  its Korean  operations into Littelfuse
Triad.   Pursuant  to  the   consolidation,   the  Company   incurred  costs  of
approximately $400,000 to liquidate SamHwa Littelfuse, Inc.

3. Inventories
<TABLE>

The components of inventories  are as follows at January 2, 1999, and January 3,
1998 (in thousands):

                                                                                                          1998        1997

<S>                                                                                                   <C>          <C>    
Raw materials                                                                                         $  9,800     $ 8,788
Work in process                                                                                          5,338       3,556
Finished goods                                                                                          21,071      26,731

                                                                                                       $36,209     $39,075
</TABLE>

4. Long-Term Obligations

The carrying amounts of long-term obligations, which approximate fair value, are
as follows at January 2, 1999, and January 3, 1998 (in thousands):
<TABLE>

                                                                                                          1998        1997

<S>            <C>                                <C>                                                  <C>      <C>       
6.16% Senior Notes, maturing 2005                                                                      $60,000  $        -
6.31% Senior Notes, maturing 2000                                                                       18,000      27,000
Credit line                                                                                                  -      20,000
Other obligations                                                                                        5,539       3,557
Capital lease obligations                                                                                2,037           -
                                                                                                        85,576      50,557
Less:  Current maturities                                                                               15,515      10,172

                                                                                                       $70,061     $40,385
</TABLE>

During 1998, the Company  concluded a $60.0 million private  placement of Senior
Notes and  renegotiated  its  existing  bank credit  agreement  to provide for a
credit line of $55.0  million  maturing on August 31, 2003.  At January 2, 1999,
the Company had available $55.0 million of borrowing capability under the credit
line at an interest  rate of LIBOR plus  0.375%.  In  addition,  the Company has
outstanding  $18.0  million  of  Senior  Notes  issued  pursuant  to a 1993 Note
Purchase Agreement.

The bank credit  agreement  provides for letters of credit of up to $8.0 million
as part of the available  credit line. At January 2, 1999,  the Company had $1.4
million of outstanding letters of credit.

The Senior Notes and bank Credit Agreement  contain  covenants that, among other
matters, impose limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, future
mergers,  sales of assets,  payment of  dividends,  and changes in  control,  as
defined.  In  addition,  the Company is required  to satisfy  certain  financial
covenants and tests relating to, among other matters, interest coverage, working
capital, leverage and net worth.

Aggregate maturities of long-term obligations at January 2, 1999, are as follows
(in thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>                           <C>                          <C>    
1999                                                       $15,515
2000                                                        17,916
2001                                                        11,016
2002                                                        10,071
2003 and thereafter                                         31,058
                                                           $85,576

</TABLE>

Interest  paid on long-term  obligations  approximated  $3.8 million in 1998 and
$4.0 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively.

5. Benefit Plans

The  Company  has  a   defined-benefit   pension  plan  (the  "Plan")   covering
substantially all of its North American employees.  The amount of the retirement
benefit is based on years of service and final  average  monthly  pay.  The Plan
also provides  post-retirement medical benefits to retirees and their spouses if
the retiree  has  reached age 62 and has  provided at least ten years of service
prior to retirement.  Such benefits generally cease once the retiree attains age
65. The Company's  contributions are made in amounts sufficient to satisfy ERISA
funding requirements.

In 1998, the Company adopted SFAS No. 132, "Employers' Disclosure about Pensions
and Other Postretirement  Benefits." This statement  standardizes the disclosure
requirements  for  pensions  and other  postretirement  benefits.  Prior  years'
information  has  been  restated  to  conform  with  the  requirements  of  this
statement.
<TABLE>

(in thousands)                                         1998                                   1997

Change in benefit obligation
<S>                                                 <C>                                    <C>    
Benefit obligation at beginning of year             $41,649                                $37,385
Service cost                                          1,942                                  1,657
Interest cost                                         2,822                                  2,654
Actuarial loss                                        1,155                                  1,995
Benefits paid                                        (2,081)                               (2,042)
Benefit obligation at end of year                   $45,487                                $41,649

Change in plan assets at fair value
Plan assets at beginning of year                    $39,703                                $34,513
Actual return on plan assets                          6,041                                  6,232
Employer contributions                                  700                                  1,000
Benefits paid                                        (2,081)                               (2,042)
Fair value of plan assets at end of year            $44,363                                $39,703

Funded status                                      $ (1,124)                             $ (1,946)
Unrecognized prior service cost                         245                                    311
Unrecognized net actuarial loss                       2,301                                  4,094
Prepaid pension obligation                         $  1,422                               $  2,459

Weighted-average assumptions
Discount rate                                             6.75%                              7.00%
Expected return on plan assets                            9.00%                              9.00%
Salary growth rate                                        4.50%                              4.50%

Components of net periodic benefit cost
Service cost                                       $  1,942                               $  1,657
Interest cost                                         2,822                                  2,654
Expected return on plan assets                       (3,243)                               (2,822)
Amortization of prior service cost                       65                                     65
Recognized net actuarial loss                           151                                    224
Net periodic benefit cost                          $  1,737                               $  1,778

</TABLE>

The Company provides  additional  retirement benefits for certain key executives
through its  unfunded  Supplemental  Executive  Retirement  Plan.  The charge to
expense for this plan  amounted to  $852,000,  $853,000,  and  $747,000 in 1998,
1997, and 1996,  respectively.  The unfunded benefit obligation amounted to $5.5
million and $4.3 million at January 2, 1999, and January 3, 1998, respectively.

The Company also maintains a 401(k) savings plan covering substantially all U.S.
employees.  The Company matches 50% of the employee's  annual  contributions for
the  first 4% of the  employee's  gross  wages.  Employees  vest in the  Company
contributions  after  two  years  of  service.  Company  matching  contributions
amounted to $547,000 in 1998, $523,000 in 1997, and $457,000 in 1996.

6. Shareholders' Equity

Stock Split On April 29,  1997,  the  Company's  Board of  Directors  approved a
two-for-one stock split to stockholders of record on May 20, 1997,  payable June
10, 1997, in the form of a stock dividend. All prior years' number of shares and
per share amounts have been restated to reflect the stock split.

Stock Purchase Warrants Warrants to purchase 2,483,709 shares of common stock at
$4.18  per  share  were  outstanding  at  January  2,  1999.  The  warrants  are
exercisable  at the option of the holder at any time prior to December 27, 2001,
and are not callable by the Company.

Stock  Options The Company has stock  option plans  authorizing  the granting of
both  incentive  and  nonqualified  options  and  other  stock  rights  of up to
2,800,000  shares of common stock to employees and directors.  The stock options
vest  over a  five-year  period  and  are  exercisable  over a  ten-year  period
commencing from the date of vesting.

A summary of stock option information follows:
<TABLE>

                                                           1998                     1997                       1996
                                                              Weighted                  Weighted                  Weighted
                                                               Average                   Average                   Average
                                                              Exercise                  Exercise                  Exercise
                                                    Options      Price       Options       Price        Options      Price

<S>                                              <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>         <C>          <C>    
Outstanding at beginning of year                 1,361,310      $14.28     1,257,380      $10.95      1,236,800    $  8.76
Granted                                            311,500       24.64       274,300       25.29        251,400      18.40
Exercised                                         (153,480)       6.49      (156,170)                         6.70(174,900)
5.81
Forfeited                                          (90,420)      15.31       (14,200)                        15.69(55,920)
10.43
Outstanding at end of year                       1,428,910      $16.91     1,361,310      $14.28      1,257,380     $10.95

Exercisable at end of year                         708,818                   671,126                    461,820
Available for future grant                         517,340                   138,420                    398,520
Weighted-average value of options
    granted during the year                                     $11.81                    $11.16                   $  9.31

</TABLE>
<TABLE>

As of January 2, 1999, the Company had the following outstanding options:


Weighted-                     Weighted-
                               Exercise              Options              Average             Average              Options
                                  Price         Outstanding        Exercise Price      Remaining Life          Exercisable

<S>             <C>               <C>                <C>                  <C>                    <C>               <C>    
                $        3.688 to $5.00              195,300              $  3.87                3.23              193,500
                $       7.50 to $11.155              206,900                 9.95                4.68              181,620
                 $     11.625 to $16.50              287,070                14.69                6.00              202,502
                 $     17.813 to $25.50              638,340                22.18                8.53              110,936
                 $    28.875 to $34.125              101,300                28.95                8.56               20,260



</TABLE>



<PAGE>


Disclosure  of pro forma  information  regarding  net  income and net income per
share is  required  by SFAS 123 and has been  determined  as if the  Company had
accounted for its stock options  granted in 1998,  1997, and 1996 under the fair
value  method  using the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model.  The  following
assumptions were utilized in the valuation:
<TABLE>

                                                                                      1998           1997          1996

<S>                                                                                      <C>            <C>           <C>  
Risk-free interest rate                                                                  5.59%          6.63%         6.76%
Expected dividend yield                                                                  0%             0%            0%
Expected stock price volatility                                                           .300%          .195%         .265%
Expected life of options                                                                 8 years        8 years       8 years
</TABLE>

Had compensation cost for the Company's stock options granted in 1998, 1997, and
1996  been  determined  based on the  fair  value at the  dates  of  grant,  the
Company's net income and net income per share would have been reduced to the pro
forma amounts indicated:
<TABLE>

                               1998        1997        1996

Pro forma net income
<S>                         <C>         <C>         <C>    
(in thousands of dollars)   $18,710     $24,621     $21,340
Pro forma basic net
income per share          $    0.91   $    1.24   $    1.08
Pro forma diluted net
income per share          $    0.81   $    1.04   $    0.90

</TABLE>

The  pro  forma  effect  on  net  income  for  1998,   1997,  and  1996  is  not
representative  of the pro forma effect on net income in future years as the pro
forma disclosures  reflect only the fair value of stock options granted in those
years and do not reflect the fair value of outstanding  options granted prior to
1996.

Notes  Receivable - Common Stock In 1995, the Company  established the Executive
Loan Program under which certain management  employees may obtain  interest-free
loans from the Company to facilitate their exercise of stock options and payment
of the  related  income  tax  liabilities.  Such  loans,  limited  to 90% of the
exercise price plus related tax liabilities,  have a five-year maturity, subject
to  acceleration  for  termination of employment or death of the employee.  Such
loans are classified as a reduction of shareholder's equity.

Preferred  Stock The Board of Directors  may authorize the issuance from time to
time  of  Preferred  Stock  in  one  or  more  series  with  such  designations,
preferences,  qualifications,  limitations,  restrictions, and optional or other
special rights as the Board may fix by resolution. In connection with the Rights
Plan,  the Board of Directors has reserved,  but not issued,  200,000  shares of
preferred stock.

Rights Plan In December  1995,  the Company  adopted a  shareholder  rights plan
providing for a dividend  distribution of one preferred share purchase right for
each share of common stock  outstanding  on and after  December  15,  1995.  The
rights can be exercised  only if an individual or group  acquires or announces a
tender offer for 15% or more of the Company's common stock and warrants.  If the
rights first become  exercisable as a result of an announced tender offer,  each
right  would  entitle  the  holder to buy  1/200th of a share of a new series of
preferred  stock at an exercise  price of $67.50.  Once an  individual  or group
acquires  15% or more of the  Company's  common  stock,  each right held by such
individual or group becomes void and the remaining  rights will then entitle the
holder to purchase a number of common  shares having a market value of twice the
exercise price of the right. If the attempted takeover succeeds, each right will
then entitle the holder to purchase a number of the acquiring  Company's  common
shares having a market value of twice the exercise price of the right.  After an
individual or group  acquires 15% of the Company's  common stock and before they
acquire 50%, the  Company's  Board of Directors may exchange the rights in whole
or in part,  at an exchange  ratio of one share of common  stock or 1/100th of a
share of a new series of  preferred  stock per right.  Before an  individual  or
group acquires 15% of the Company's common stock, or a majority of the Company's
Board of Directors are removed by written consent,  which ever occurs first, the
rights are redeemable for $.01 per right at the option of the Company's Board of
Directors.  The  Company's  Board of Directors is  authorized  to reduce the 15%
threshold  to no less than 10%.  Each right will  expire on December  15,  2005,
unless earlier redeemed by the Company.

7. Income Taxes

Federal,  state,  and  foreign  income  tax  expense  (credit)  consists  of the
following (in thousands):

                        1998           1997            1996
<TABLE>

Current:
<S>                 <C>            <C>             <C>     
Federal             $  4,861       $  7,845        $  7,091
State                    920          1,859           1,440
Foreign                5,239          5,391           4,790
                      11,020         15,095          13,321
Deferred:
Federal                 (809)             5            (872)
Foreign                  (87)           210             (90)
                        (896)           215            (962)
                     $10,124        $15,310         $12,359

</TABLE>

Domestic and foreign income before income taxes is as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>

                        1998           1997            1996

<S>                  <C>            <C>             <C>    
Domestic             $15,337        $26,494         $21,299
Foreign               14,672         14,158          12,795
                     $30,009        $40,652         $34,094

</TABLE>

A reconciliation  between income taxes computed on income before income taxes at
the federal  statutory rate and the provision for income taxes is provided below
(in thousands):
<TABLE>

                               1998        1997        1996

<S>                         <C>         <C>         <C> 
Tax expense at statutory
    rate of 35%             $10,503     $14,228     $11,933
State and local taxes,
    net of federal tax benefit  598       1,208         936
Foreign income taxes             68        (705)       (181)
SamHwa Littelfuse, Inc.
    liquidation              (1,055)          -           -
Foreign losses for which
    no tax benefit is available  83         974         703
Other, net                      (73)       (395)     (1,032)
                            $10,124     $15,310     $12,359

</TABLE>



<PAGE>


Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effects of temporary  differences
between the financial  reporting bases and the tax bases of the Company's assets
and liabilities. Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and
liabilities  at January  2,  1999,  and  January  3,  1998,  are as follows  (in
thousands):
<TABLE>

                                            1998       1997

Deferred tax liabilities
Tax over book depreciation
<S>                                       <C>        <C>   
    and amortization                      $4,289     $4,740
Prepaid expenses                           1,265      1,346
Other                                        416        639
Total deferred tax liabilities             5,970      6,725

Deferred tax assets
Accrued expenses                           3,899      3,146
Foreign net operating loss carryforwards     174      1,820
Other                                        578      1,045
Total deferred tax assets                  4,651      6,011
Less:  Valuation allowance                  (174)    (1,820)
Net deferred tax assets                    4,477      4,191
Net deferred tax liabilities              $1,493     $2,534
</TABLE>

The  deferred  tax asset  valuation  allowance is related to deferred tax assets
from foreign net operating losses.  The net operating loss carryforwards have no
expiration  date.  Certain  foreign net  operating  loss  carryforwards  and the
related  valuation  allowance are no longer  available due to the liquidation of
SamHwa  Littelfuse,  Inc. The Company received a one-time tax benefit associated
with the liquidation of approximately $1.1 million for the year ended January 2,
1999.  The Company paid income taxes of $11.5 million in 1998,  $14.0 million in
1997, and $9.0 million in 1996.

 8. Business Segment Information

The  Company  designs,   manufactures,  and  sells  circuit  protection  devices
throughout the world. The Company has three reportable geographic segments:  The
Americas,  Europe,  and  Asia-Pacific.  The circuit  protection  market in these
geographical segments is categorized into three major product areas: electronic,
automotive, and power fuses.

The Company  evaluates the performance of each  geographic  segment based on its
net income or loss. The Company also accounts for  intersegment  sales as if the
sales were to third parties.

The Company's  reportable  segments are the business  units where the revenue is
earned and expenses are incurred.  The Company has subsidiaries in The Americas,
Europe,  and  Asia-Pacific  where each region is measured based on its sales and
operating income or loss.

Information  concerning the operations in these geographic segments for the year
ended January 2, 1999, is as follows in Table 1 (in thousands):
<TABLE>

                                                                           Combined                            Consolidated
Table 1: Geographic Segments   The Americas       Europe  Asia-Pacific        Total    CorporateReconciliation        Total

<S>                                <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>      <C>         <C>                <C>     
Revenues                           $164,211    $  44,835     $  60,494     $269,540 $          -$           -      $269,540
Intersegment revenues                30,297       10,024           263       40,584            -      (40,584)            -
Interest expense                      3,724           17           248        3,989            -            -         3,989
Depreciation and amortization         8,495        1,459         3,417       13,371        8,835            -        22,206
Other income (loss)                     506           68          (672)         (98)           -            -           (98)
Income tax expense                    4,412        3,896         1,816       10,124            -            -        10,124
Net income (loss)                    18,970        7,692         2,058       28,720       (8,835)           -        19,885
Identifiable assets                 130,981       24,282        42,658      197,921       89,619      (36,996)      250,544
Capital expenditures                 15,269        2,344         3,707       21,320            -            -        21,320

</TABLE>

Intersegment   revenues  and   receivables   are   eliminated  to  reconcile  to
consolidated totals. Corporate identifiable assets consist primarily of cash and
intangible assets.

The Company's  revenues by product areas for the year ended January 2, 1999, are
as follows (in thousands):

                                                               Revenues

Electronic                                                    $133,086
Automotive                                                      96,685
Power                                                           39,769

Consolidated Total                                            $269,540

Revenues from no single  customer of the Company  amount to 10% or more of total
revenues,  except for its Japanese stocking representative,  which accounted for
10.2% for the year ended January 2, 1999.

9. Lease Commitments

The Company  leases  certain  office and  warehouse  space  under  noncancelable
operating  leases,  as well as certain  machinery and equipment.  Rental expense
under these leases was  approximately  $900,000 in 1998 and $1.3 million in 1997
and 1996, respectively.  Future minimum payments for all noncancelable operating
leases with initial terms of one year or more at January 2, 1999, are as follows
(in thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>                                                         <C>            
1999                                                       $       588
2000                                                               200
2001                                                                57
2002                                                                 7
2003 and thereafter                                                 -
                                                           $        852
</TABLE>

10. Earnings per Share

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
share:
<TABLE>

(in thousands)                                             1998         1997         1996

Numerator:
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>      
    Net income                                           $  19,885    $  25,342    $  21,735
Denominator:
    Denominator for basic earnings per share -
        Weighted-average shares                          $  20,474    $  19,824    $  19,888
Effect of dilutive securities:
    Warrants                                                 2,311        3,335        3,520
    Employee stock options                                     369          464          393
Denominator for diluted earnings per share -
    Adjusted weighted-average shares and
    assumed conversions                                     23,154       23,623       23,801
Basic earnings per share                                 $    0.97   $     1.28   $     1.09
Diluted earnings per share                               $    0.86   $     1.07   $     0.91
</TABLE>


<PAGE>




<TABLE>

Selected Financial Data
(In thousands, except per share data)

Five Year Summary

                                                                      1998         1997         1996          1995         1994

<S>                                                               <C>         <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>      
Net sales                                                         $269,540    $ 275,165    $ 241,446     $ 219,535    $ 194,454
Gross profit                                                       100,199      111,131       98,288        89,872       77,416
Operating income                                                    34,096       43,768       37,669        33,729       27,846
Net income                                                          19,885       25,342       21,735        19,272       15,227
Net income per share - Diluted                                        0.86         1.07         0.91          0.78         0.63

Net working capital                                              $  46,685   $   41,548   $   31,343    $   27,963    $  25,061
Total assets                                                       250,544      221,885      209,951       205,186      199,328
Long-term debt                                                      70,061       40,385       44,556        40,804       60,344

</TABLE>


<TABLE>

Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)

                                                                      1998                                                 1997
                                 4Q           3Q           2Q           1Q           4Q           3Q            2Q           1Q

<S>                       <C>         <C>           <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>      
Net sales                 $  62,058   $   69,035    $  69,116    $  69,331   $   70,761   $   68,993    $   69,828    $  65,583
Gross profit                 21,370       25,905       26,331       26,592       27,843       27,860        28,609       26,819
Operating income              5,890        9,226        9,809        9,171       10,196       11,220        11,770       10,582
Net income                    3,139        5,366        5,555        5,826        5,767        6,412         6,896        6,267
Net income per share:

     Basic                     0.16         0.26         0.27         0.29         0.29         0.32          0.35         0.32
     Diluted                   0.14         0.23         0.24         0.25         0.24         0.27          0.29         0.27




Quarterly Stock Price

                                                                      1998                                                 1997
                                 4Q           3Q           2Q           1Q           4Q           3Q            2Q           1Q
High 25 1/4                  25 5/8       26 5/8       28 1/2       35 1/2       34 1/2       28 1/2        250 /0
Low  16 0/0                  16 1/4       20 0/0       25 1/4       21 3/4       27 1/4       22 0/0        22 1/8
Close                        19 1/4       19 1/4       25 1/8       25 3/4       25 1/2       33 7/8        270 /0       23 1/8


</TABLE>








</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23.1
<TEXT>

                                                             Exhibit 23.1


                         Consent of Independent Auditors



We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of Littelfuse,  Inc. of our report dated January 26, 1999,  included in the 1998
Annual Report to Stockholders of Littelfuse, Inc.

Our audit also included the financial  statement  schedule of  Littelfuse,  Inc.
listed in Item 14(a).  This  schedule  is the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In
our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when considered
in relation to the basic financial  statements taken as a whole,  present fairly
in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(No.  33-55942,  33-64442,  33-95020,  and  333-03260) on Form S-8 of our report
dated January 26, 1999, with respect to the  consolidated  financial  statements
incorporated  herein by  reference,  and our report  included  in the  preceding
paragraph  with respect to the  financial  statement  schedule  included in this
Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Littelfuse, Inc.



                                                            Ernst & Young LLP

Chicago, Illinois
March 17, 1999









</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
