-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 T50JYhCapLN3uFVWSdbp/g2JQr3bEL0SCK0fryQD4obLqzjs2JmOrF1VI5id5FNC
 xBWUtr6H161E9YQsYtcJPw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000889331-00-000002.txt : 20000322
<SEC-HEADER>0000889331-00-000002.hdr.sgml : 20000322
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000889331-00-000002
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20000102
FILED AS OF DATE:		20000321

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LITTELFUSE INC /DE
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000889331
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SWITCHGEAR & SWITCHBOARD APPARATUS [3613]
		IRS NUMBER:				363795742
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-20388
		FILM NUMBER:		574630

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 E NORTHWEST HWY
		CITY:			DES PLAINES
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60016
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7088241188

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		800 E. NORTHWEST HWY
		CITY:			DES PLAINES
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60016
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>



                       Securities and Exchange Commission
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K
                [X] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
                     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
    (Mark One)          for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2000 or
                [ ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
                     of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
                        for the transition period from         to

                         Commission file number 0-20388

                                Littelfuse, Inc.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        Delaware                                         36-3795742
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)

800 East Northwest Highway,
Des Plaines, Illinois                                       60016
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (Zip Code)

                                  847/824-1188
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

Securities  registered  pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: Common Stock, $.01
par value, and Warrants to purchase shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12 months  (or for such  shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,
to the best of  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ X ]

         The aggregate market value of 18,334,779 shares of voting stock held by
non-affiliates  of the registrant was  approximately  $659,760,197  based on the
last reported sale price of the  registrant's  Common Stock,  $.01 par value, as
reported on The Nasdaq Stock Market on March 10, 2000.

     As of March 10, 2000, the registrant had outstanding  19,574,337  shares of
Common  Stock,  $.01 par value,  and  Warrants to purchase  2,461,309  shares of
Common Stock, $.01 par value.

     Portions  of the  following  documents  have  been  incorporated  herein by
reference to the extent indicated herein: Littelfuse, Inc. Proxy Statement dated
March 20,  2000 (the "Proxy  Statement")  --Part III.  Littelfuse,  Inc.  Annual
Report to Stockholders  for the year ended January 1, 2000 (the "Annual Report")
- -- Parts II and III.


<PAGE>


                                                                Part I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

General

         Littelfuse,   Inc.  (the  "Company"  or   "Littelfuse")  is  a  leading
manufacturer and seller of fuses and other circuit protection devices for use in
the electronic,  automotive and general industrial markets.  Management believes
the  Company  is  ranked  first  in  market  share in both  the  electronic  and
automotive  markets  and  third in the  power  fuse  market  in  North  America.
Management believes the Company,  together with its licensees,  is also first in
market share in both the electronic and automotive markets worldwide.

         In the electronic market,  leading manufacturers such as Canon, Compaq,
Dell  Computer,  IBM, LG  Electronics,  Lucent  Technologies,  Motorola,  Nokia,
Nortel, Panasonic, Samsung, Sharp and Sony obtain a substantial portion of their
electronic circuit protection  requirements from the Company.  In the automotive
market,  the  Company or its  licensees  have  customer  relationships  with all
leading  automobile  manufacturers  throughout  the world.  Littelfuse  provides
substantially all of the automotive fuse requirements for vehicles  manufactured
domestically  by General  Motors and is the primary  supplier for Ford,  Daimler
Chrysler and all Japanese and most European auto manufacturer  transplants.  The
Company also competes in the power fuse market  selling to companies such as the
Allen Bradley  division of Rockwell  International  and Reliance  Electric.  See
"Business Environment: Circuit Protection Market."

         The Company manufactures its products on fully integrated manufacturing
and  assembly  equipment,  much  of  which  is  designed  and  built  by its own
engineers.  The Company  fabricates and assembles a majority of its products and
maintains  product quality through a rigorous quality assurance program with all
sites  certified  under  ISO  9000  standards  and its  world  headquarters  now
certified under the QS9000 standards.

         The Company's  products are sold worldwide through a direct sales force
and manufacturers' representatives.  In the Asia-Pacific region, the Company has
licensed  its  automotive  fuse  technology  to a  Japanese  firm that  supplies
automotive  fuses to Pacific Rim customers.  For the year ended January 1, 2000,
approximately  46% of the  Company's  net sales were to  customers  outside  the
United States (exports and foreign operations).

         References herein to "1997" or "fiscal 1997" refer to the calendar year
ended January 3, 1998. References herein to "1998" or "fiscal 1998" refer to the
fiscal year ended January 2, 1999.  References herein to "1999" or "fiscal 1999"
refer to the fiscal year ended January 1, 2000.

Business Environment:  Circuit Protection Market

         The  circuit  protection  market can be broadly  categorized  into five
major product areas:  electronic,  automotive,  industrial (power), high voltage
and  residential.  The  Company  sells  products  designed  for the  electronic,
automotive  and industrial  areas.  The Company  entered the circuit  protection
market  in 1927  with the  development  and  introduction  of the  first  small,
fast-acting fuse capable of protecting  sensitive test meters.  Since that time,
the Company has diversified its involvement in the circuit  protection market to
become a leader in the  production  of  electronic  and  automotive  fuses.  The
Company  also  entered the power fuse market in 1983 with a broad line of fuses,
including  several  proprietary  products.  The Company  believes it is a market
leader in circuit protection devices,  offering the broadest line of products in
the  industry  and the global  presence to serve major  markets  throughout  the
world.

         Electronic Products. Electronic circuit protection products are used to
protect power  circuits in a multitude of electronic  systems and fall into five
major  categories:  (1)  fuses,  (2)  resettables  (3)  electrostatic  discharge
suppressors (4) thyristors and (5) metal-oxide varistors.  Electronics fuses are
devices  which  contain  an element  which  melts in an  overcurrent  condition.
Resettables  are positive  temperature  coefficient  (PTC) polymer  devices that
limit the current  when an  overcurrent  condition  exists and let current  pass
again after the cause of the  overcurrent  is removed.  Electrostatic  discharge
(ESD)  suppressors  are polymer based devices that shunt  transient high voltage
energy away from circuitry.  Thyristors are fast switching silicon semiconductor
structures commonly used to protect telecommunications circuits from overvoltage
transients  such as those resulting from  lightning.  Metal-oxide  varistors are
ceramic  based  devices  designed to absorb high energy  transients  in order to
maintain  the  circuit  voltage  at safe  levels.  Applications  for  electronic
products   include   telecommunications   equipment,   computers   and  computer
peripherals,  power  supplies,  test and medical  instrumentation,  and consumer
electronic products.

         Automotive Products. Fuses are extensively used in automobiles, trucks,
buses and off-road equipment to protect  electrical  circuits and the wires that
supply electrical power to operate lights, heating, air conditioning, windshield
wipers, radios,  windows and controls.  Currently, a typical automobile contains
30 to 70 fuses, depending upon the options installed.  The market for automotive
fuses is expected to grow in the coming  years as more  electronic  features are
included in  automobiles,  and as the  development of electric,  hybrid and fuel
cell vehicles  increases.  Certain new vehicles,  such as the Cadillac  Seville,
Ford 150 series truck, Jeep Grand Cherokee and the Jaguar, contain as many as 50
to 90 fuses and this higher fuse count is expected to spread to other vehicles.

         Power  Products.   Power  fuses  include  both  current   limiting  and
non-current   limiting  devices  used  to  protect  electrical  systems  against
overcurrents.  Power fuses are rated and listed under one of many  Underwriters'
Laboratories fuse  classifications.  The three main end user market segments for
power  fuses  include  original  equipment  manufacturers  ("OEMs"),  industrial
maintenance  and repair  operations  ("MROs") and new  commercial and industrial
construction.  Major  applications  for  power  fuses  include  protection  from
over-load  and  short-circuit  currents in motor  branch  circuits,  heating and
cooling systems, control systems,  lighting circuits and electrical distribution
networks.

Littelfuse Products

         General.  The  Company is a leading  manufacturer  and seller of fuses,
varistors  and  other  circuit  protection  devices  for use in the  electronic,
automotive and general industrial  markets.  The Company's products are marketed
under the general  trademarked  names of Littelfuse(R)  and, where  appropriate,
Slo-Blo(R)  Fuse as well as the  trademarked  names of certain  of its  products
listed below in the  description  of the Company's  electronic,  automotive  and
power fuse products.



<PAGE>


Product Sales. Net sales of the Company's  products by industry category for the
periods indicated are as follows:

<TABLE>

                                                             Fiscal Year
                                                            (in thousands)
                                         -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------

                                                1999                  1998                  1997
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------
<S>                                                 <C>                   <C>                    <C>
             Electronic                             $154,141              $133,085               $135,032
             Automotive                              101,270                96,686                102,139
             Industrial (Power)                       40,956                39,769                 37,994
                                         -------------------- --------------------- ----------------------
                                         ==================== ===================== ======================
                  Total                             $296,367              $269,540               $275,165
                                         ==================== ===================== ======================
</TABLE>


         Electronic Products. The Company manufactures and sells a wide range of
electronic circuit  protection  products,  including  miniature and subminiature
fuses,  protectors and resettables.  Electronic miniature and subminiature fuses
are designed to provide circuit  protection in the limited space requirements of
electronic  equipment.  The Company entered the resettable device market in late
1996.  The  Company  entered  the ESD  suppressor  market  in late  1998 and the
varistor and thyristor market in 1999.

The Company's  electronic  circuit  protection  products are marketed  under the
following trademarked and brand names:

              PICO(R) II Fuse is a very fast-acting subminiature fuse with axial
              leads which can be automatically inserted into a circuit board. It
              is used in consumer electronics,  computers,  medical instruments,
              power supplies and telecommunication line cards. It was originally
              developed for the aerospace  industry where  extremely  small size
              and  high  reliability  were  prime   requisites.   This  fuse  is
              encapsulated  with an epoxy coating  which  protects the fuse from
              adverse environmental  conditions. It can stand up under the rough
              treatment  found in high speed  automated  circuit board  assembly
              processes used by many different manufacturers.

              2AG fuses are a miniature version of the standard 1/4" diameter by
              1-1/4"  long  glass  bodied  fuses  manufactured  for more than 40
              years. The fuse occupies about 1/3 of the space but still provides
              the  performance  of the larger  sized  product.  The  Company has
              developed a strong market in the telecommunications industry for a
              leaded  version of the 2AG fuse.  These fuses are used in business
              and  personal  telephone  systems,  answering  machines  and other
              equipment  connected to phone lines.  They are used to protect the
              system from  lightning  surges and  accidental  contact with power
              lines.  These  fuses  also  are  used  extensively  in  electronic
              ballasts for lighting.

              NANO2  (R) SMF  Fuse is a fourth  generation  surface  mount  fuse
              product  line.  The  compact  size (.240" x .100" x .100") of this
              rectangular shaped fuse is very attractive to design engineers. In
              addition,   the  flat  side  design  permits  efficient  pick  and
              placement by automated assembly equipment.  The NANO2 (R) SMF Fuse
              is used where space considerations are critical,  including laptop
              computers, camcorders and battery chargers.

              ALF(TM) II or "1206" SMF,  and the "0603" SMF are very fast acting
              thin film surface mount fuses  measuring  only .12 inch x .06 inch
              and .06  inch X .03  inch,  respectively.  The  subminiature  size
              assures  additional  space savings in surface mount  applications.
              They are completely  compatible with common soldering systems used
              in surface mount assembly  applications,  the ALF(TM) is available
              on  8mm  reels  for  use  with  automatic   placement   equipment.
              Applications  include  hard disk drives,  PC main boards,  digital
              cameras, CD-ROMs and cellular telephones.

              SMTelecom(TM)  is the first  surface  mount fuse to comply with UL
              1459  and UL 1950  third  edition  power  cross  requirements  for
              telecommunications.  The new SMTelecom(TM) Fuse protects all phone
              line connected  equipment  against  current surges  resulting from
              power cross,  power induction and lightning  strikes.  It is rated
              for 250 volts with a 600 volt short circuit  rating.  Four current
              ratings  are  offered,  from  0.75  to 1.5  amperes.  Applications
              include  modems,  fax  machines,  desktop  telephones,   answering
              machines and line cards.

              Surface  Mount  PTC is  the  first  in  Littelfuse's  line  of PTC
              devices.  Its dimensions of 0.200" x 0.290" x 0.120" are ideal for
              circuit board applications where space is at a premium. It also is
              available  in 0.340" x 0.250" x 0.10" and  0.179" x 0.127" x 0.02"
              configurations.  This polymer surface mount PTC has the ability to
              reset itself once the fault or overcurrent  condition has cleared.
              This new product is used  primarily  for computer  and  peripheral
              applications such as motherboards,  disk drives, PC cards, modems,
              printers, etc.

              PulseGuard(R), an ESD suppressor, is a polymer based surface mount
              or  connector  style  device  that  utilizes  a  variable  voltage
              material  to shunt high  voltage  ESD energy  away from  circuitry
              without affecting data signals. The PulseGuard(R)  characteristics
              and  available  packages  provide  for  protection  of  integrated
              circuitry in applications such as PCs and PC peripherals.

              Metal Oxide Varistors (MOVs) are high energy  absorption  products
              that  provide  transient  overvoltage  and surge  suppression  for
              electronic,  telecommunication and industrial  applications.  MOVs
              are available in a radial  leaded  package,  used in  applications
              such as hand-held  electronic  devises,  cellular  telephones  and
              medical instruments.  A surface mount,  multilayer package is also
              available  for  circuit  board  applications  where  space is at a
              premium.

              UltraMOV(TM) is a series of radial leaded  varistors  intended for
              AC line applications  requiring high peak surge current rating and
              high   energy   absorption   capability.    Applications   include
              Uniterruptable   Power  Supplies  (UPS),   circuit  breakers,   AC
              appliance/controls and consumer electronics.

              The Company also markets a series of  industrial  MOVs designed to
              provide   surge   suppression   in  the  AC  mains   outdoors  and
              distribution panels of buildings.  Applications include industrial
              heavy motors, HVAC and motor/generator applications.

         Automotive  Products.  The Company is a primary  supplier of automotive
fuses to United  States,  Japanese  and  European  automotive  OEMs,  automotive
component parts  manufacturers  and automotive parts  distributors.  The Company
also sells its fuses in the  replacement  parts market,  with its products being
sold through  merchandisers,  discount stores and service  stations,  as well as
under private label by national firms.  Management believes that it currently is
the leading  worldwide  supplier of automotive fuses for new vehicle  production
and a leader for the aftermarket/replacement market.

         The Company  invented and owns all of the U.S.  patents  related to the
blade  type  fuse  which is the  standard  and most  commonly  used  fuse in the
automotive industry. The Company believes that, together with its licensees,  it
supplies  substantially  all of the blade type fuses used in the North  American
and  Japanese  markets  and a majority in the  European  market.  The  Company's
automotive fuse products are marketed under the following  trademarked and brand
names:

              AUTOFUSE(R)  or  ATO(R),  a standard  blade type fuse,  is used in
              automobiles  produced  worldwide and designed to provide  superior
              circuit  protection  in a small,  heat  resistant  package for low
              ampere applications.

              MINI(R) Fuse, smaller than its predecessor AUTOFUSE(R), is offered
              in a range from two amps to 30 amps and is designed to permit more
              fuses in the same amount of space than prior products.

              MAXI(TM) Fuse, a larger version of the  AUTOFUSE(R),  replaces the
              commonly  used low  technology  fusible  wire or fusible  links in
              automobile  electrical harnesses and is offered in a range from 20
              amps to 80 amps.

              MIDI(R)  Fuse is a bolt down version of the  MAXI(TM)  fuse.  This
              style is preferred by some European customers in the 50 to 100 amp
              range. Its primary use is for heating,  air conditioning and motor
              control circuits.

              J-CASE(R)  Fuse, is a cartridge  version of the Maxi(TM) fuse. Its
              primary use is for branch  circuit  protection  and  protection of
              circuits with inductive loads.

              MEGA(R)Fuse,  a higher  current  fuse with  ratings of 100 to 200
               amps, is used for protection of battery cables.

         Over half of the Company's North American  automotive (blade type) fuse
sales are made to wire harness  manufacturers  that  incorporate  the fuses into
their  products.  The  remaining  automotive  fuse  sales are made  directly  to
automotive manufacturers and through distributors who in turn sell most of their
products to  automotive  product  wholesalers,  such as warehouse  distributors,
discount stores and service stations.

         The Company believes it currently has adequate  production  capacity to
meet the  anticipated  increased  demand for  automotive  fuses  referred  to in
"Business  Environment:  Circuit  Protection  Market --  Automotive  Fuses." Any
required  expenditures for additional machinery and equipment are expected to be
funded by cash flow from operations.

         The Company has licensed its patented  Mini(R) and Maxi(TM)  automotive
fuse  designs to  Bussmann,  a division  of Cooper  Industries.  Bussmann is the
Company's  largest domestic  competitor.  Additionally,  the Company has entered
into a licensing  agreement with Pacific Engineering  Company,  Ltd., a Japanese
fuse manufacturer, which produces and distributes the Company's patented Mini(R)
automotive fuses to the Pacific Rim  manufacturing  operations of Japanese based
automobile manufacturers. See "Competition" and "Business -- Patents, Trademarks
and Other Intellectual Property."

         Power  Products.  The Company entered the power fuse market in 1983 and
manufactures and sells a broad range of low-voltage  circuit protection products
to electrical distributors and their customers in the construction,  OEM and MRO
markets. Power fuses are used to protect circuits in various types of industrial
equipment and circuits in industrial  plants,  office  buildings and residential
units.  The  Company's  power fuse  products  are marketed  under the  following
classifications:

              Class L fuses are  commonly  used as the first line of  electrical
              protection in building service entrance equipment of high capacity
              electrical systems.  Other applications  include switchboard mains
              and feeders,  distribution equipment and branch circuit protection
              for large motors.

              Class R fuses are commonly used downstream from Class L fuses in a
              variety of branch circuit  applications.  Both time delay and fast
              acting  versions  cover a range  of  applications  including  main
              feeder,  motor,  transformer  and  solenoids.  The  Company's  RK5
              INDICATOR  fuse series has won  numerous  product  awards and wide
              recognition  by industrial  plant  personnel.  These fuses have an
              integrated blown fuse indicator that turns from clear to dark once
              a fuse has blown. This reduces  troubleshooting time significantly
              and helps improve safety.

              Class J fuses are less  than  half the size of Class R to  provide
              substantial space savings. Applications for Class J are similar to
              Class R.  Additional  applications  include back up protection for
              circuit  breakers  and  protection  for both  IEC and  NEMA  rated
              devices.  The Company has also  introduced an indicating J line of
              fuses with indication functionality like the RK5 INDICATOR fuse.

              Class CC fuses, Littelfuse's KLDR (for transformer protection) and
              CCMR (for motor  branch  circuit  protection)  provide  protection
              formerly  supplied by fuses 10 times  larger.  Littelfuse  was the
              first to the market with these  products  and is the only  company
              with a CCMR rated up to 60 amps.

              Semiconductor  fuses,  designed for  supplementary  protection  of
              semiconducting devices, are used in electronic equipment and power
              equipment,  such as variable speed drives,  power rectifiers,  UPS
              systems and DC power suppliers.

              Midget fuses, in seven  different  series,  provide  supplementary
              overcurrent  protection  in such diverse  applications  as control
              circuits, control power transformers,  solenoids,  street lighting
              and computers.

              Medium voltage fuses, designed for general and back-up protection,
              protect motors,  transformers  and motor  controllers.  The medium
              voltage  fuse line was  expanded in 1998 with the  purchase of the
              product  line and  assets of a medium  voltage  fuse  manufacturer
              allowing for very short delivery times of these products.

         Other Products. In addition to the above products, the Company supplies
switches,  and circuit breakers to the automotive  industry and to appliance and
general  electronics  manufacturers.  The  Company  is also a  supplier  of fuse
holders  (including  OMNI-BLOK(R)),  fuse blocks (including  Powr-Blok(R)  power
distribution  systems)  and fuse clips  primarily  to  customers  that  purchase
circuit protection devices from the Company.


Product Design and Development

         The Company  employs  scientific,  engineering  and other  personnel to
improve its existing  product  lines and to develop new products at its research
and engineering facility in Des Plaines,  Illinois.  The Engineering  Department
consists of approximately 60 engineers, chemists, metallurgists, fusologists and
technicians.  This  department  is  primarily  responsible  for the  design  and
development of new products.

         Proposals for the  development of new products are initiated  primarily
by sales and marketing  personnel with input from customers.  The entire product
development process typically ranges from 6 to 18 months with continuous efforts
to reduce the development cycle.  During the fiscal years ended January 1, 2000,
January 2, 1999, and January 3, 1998, the Company  expended  approximately  $9.5
million,  $8.4 million and $7.9  million,  respectively,  on product  design and
development.



<PAGE>


Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property

         The Company  generally  relies on patent and trademark laws and license
and nondisclosure  agreements to protect its rights in its trade secrets and its
proprietary products.  In cases where it is deemed necessary by management,  key
employees  are  required  to sign an  agreement  that  they  will  maintain  the
confidentiality of the Company's proprietary information and trade secrets. This
information, for business reasons, is not disclosed to the public.

         As of January 1, 2000,  the Company owned 112 patents in North America,
22 patents in the European  Economic  Community  and 34 patents in other foreign
countries.  The Company has also registered  trademark protection for certain of
its brand names and logos.  The 112 North American  patents are in the following
categories:  47 Electronic,  16 Resettable,  23 Automotive,  19 Power Fuse and 7
miscellaneous.

         New products are continually being developed to replace older products.
The  Company  regularly  applies  for patent  protection  on such new  products.
Although in the aggregate  the Company's  patents are important in the operation
of its businesses, the Company believes that the loss by expiration or otherwise
of any one patent or group of patents would not materially affect its business.

         The Company currently licenses its MINI(R) and MAXI(TM) automotive fuse
technology  to  Bussmann,  a division  of Cooper  Industries  and the  Company's
largest  domestic  competitor.  The license granted in 1987 is nonexclusive  and
grants  the  Company  the right to  receive  royalties  of 4% of the  licensee's
revenues  from the sale of the  licensed  products  with an  annual  minimum  of
$25,000.  Each license  expires  upon the  expiration  of the  licensed  product
patents.

         In addition,  a second license covering the MINI(R) Fuse technology was
granted to Pacific  Engineering  Company,  Ltd.,  a Japanese  manufacturer  that
produces and distributes the Company's patented  automotive fuses to Pacific Rim
operations of Pacific Rim-based automotive  manufacturers.  The license provides
the Company with royalties of 2.5% of the  licensee's  revenues from the sale of
the licensed products,  with an annual minimum of $100,000.  This second license
expires on April 6, 2006.

         License  royalties  amounted to  $250,000,  $286,000  and  $332,000 for
fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Manufacturing

         Much of the Company's manufacturing equipment is custom designed by its
engineers,  and the Company  performs the majority of its own  fabrication.  The
Company  stamps  most of the metal  components  used in its fuses,  holders  and
switches  from raw metal stock and makes its own contacts and springs.  However,
the Company does depend upon a single  source for a  substantial  portion of its
stamped metal end caps for one family of electronic  fuses. The Company believes
that alternative stamping sources are available at prices which would not have a
material  adverse  effect on the  Company.  The Company  also  performs  its own
plating (silver,  nickel, zinc, tin and oxides). In addition,  all thermoplastic
molded component requirements used for such products as the AUTOFUSE(R), MINI(R)
and  MAXI(TM)  product  lines are met through  the  Company's  in-house  molding
capabilities.

         After components are stamped,  molded, plated and readied for assembly,
final assembly is accomplished on fully  automatic and  semi-automatic  assembly
machines.  Quality assurance and operations personnel,  using techniques such as
Statistical  Process Control,  perform tests, checks and measurements during the
production  process  to  maintain  the  highest  levels of product  quality  and
customer satisfaction.

         The principal raw materials for the Company's  products  include copper
and copper alloys,  heat resistant  plastics,  zinc,  melamine,  glass,  silver,
solder,  sulphate  chipboard  and  linerboard.  The Company  depends upon a sole
source for several heat resistant  plastics.  The Company believes that suitable
alternative  heat resistant  plastics are available from other sources at prices
which would not have a material adverse effect on the Company.  All of the other
raw materials are purchased from a number of readily available outside sources.

         A computer-aided  design and manufacturing  system (CAD/CAM)  expedites
product  development  and  machine  design,  while  reliability  and high  power
laboratories test new products,  prototype  concepts and production run samples.
The Company  participates in  "Just-in-Time"  delivery programs with many of its
major  suppliers  and  actively  promotes  the  building  of strong  cooperative
relationships  with its suppliers by involving them in  pre-engineering  product
and process  development.  The Company also  sponsors an annual  major  supplier
conference and conducts a vendor certification program.

Marketing

         The  Company's  domestic  sales  staff  of  over  70  people  maintains
relations with major OEMs and distributors.  The Company's sales and engineering
personnel  interact  directly with the OEM engineers to ensure  maximum  circuit
protection   and   reliability   within  the   parameters  of  the  OEM  design.
Internationally, the Company maintains a sales staff of over 30 people and sales
offices in The Netherlands,  England, Ireland,  Singapore,  Korea and China. The
Company also markets its products indirectly through a worldwide organization of
over 120  manufacturers'  representatives  and distributes  through an extensive
network of electronic, automotive and electrical distributors.

         Electronic. The Company retains manufacturers'  representatives to sell
its electronic products and to call on major domestic and international OEMs and
distributors. The Company distributes approximately 43% of its domestic products
directly to OEMs, with the remainder sold through distributors nationwide.

         In the Asia-Pacific  region, the Company maintains a direct sales staff
and one or more  manufacturers'  representatives  in  Japan,  Singapore,  Korea,
Taiwan, China, Malaysia,  Thailand,  Philippines and Australia. The Company also
maintains an engineering  facility in Japan. In Europe,  the Company maintains a
direct  sales  force to call on OEMs  exclusively  and  utilizes  manufacturers'
representatives  to approach  distributors and smaller OEMs. Unlike its domestic
representatives,  these manufacturers'  representatives  purchase inventory from
the Company to facilitate  delivery and reduce  financial risks  associated with
currency exchange rate fluctuations.

         Automotive. The Company sells automotive fuses to OEMs through a direct
sales force in Detroit  consisting of four employees.  Salespersons  service all
the major automotive OEMs (including the United States manufacturing  operations
of foreign-based  OEMs) through both the engineering and purchasing  departments
of these  companies.  Twenty-two  manufacturers'  representatives  represent the
Company's products to aftermarket fuse retailers such as Autozone, Pep Boys, and
K-Mart. In Europe, the Company uses both a direct sales force and manufacturers'
representatives  to distribute its products to Mercedes Benz, BMW, Volvo,  Saab,
Jaguar and other OEMs, as well as aftermarket distributors.  In the Asia-Pacific
region,  the Company has licensed its automotive  fuse  technology to a Japanese
firm,  which  supplies  the  majority of the  automotive  fuses to the  Japanese
manufacturing  operations  in the region  including  Toyota,  Honda and  Nissan.
Additionally,  the  Company  has a direct  sales staff in Korea to call on major
OEMs in that market.

         Power.   The  Company   markets  and  sells  its  power  fuses  through
manufacturers'  representatives across North America. These representatives sell
power fuse products  through an  electrical  distribution  network  comprised of
approximately  1,800  distributor  buying  locations.  These  distributors  have
customers that include  electrical  contractors,  municipalities,  utilities and
factories   (including   both  MRO  and   OEM).   Some  of  the   manufacturers'
representatives  have consigned  inventory in order to facilitate rapid customer
delivery.

         The Company's field sales force (including  application  engineers) and
manufacturers'   representatives   call  on  both   distributors  and  end-users
(consulting  engineers,  municipalities,  utilities  and  OEMs) in an  effort to
educate these customers on the capabilities and characteristics of the Company's
products.

Business Segment Information

The Company has three reportable  business  segments:  The Americas,  Europe and
Asia-Pacific.  For information  with respect to the Company's  operations in its
three  geographic  areas for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2000, see "Item 8.
Financial  Statements and  Supplementary  Data - Business  Segment  Information"
incorporated herein by reference.

Customers

         The  Company  sells  to over  10,000  customers  worldwide.  No  single
customer  accounted  for more than 10% of net sales  during the last three years
except for its Japanese  stocking  representative  which accounted for 10.2% and
11% in 1998 and 1997, respectively.  The Japanese stocking representative serves
over 100 customers in the Asia-Pacific  electronic market. During the 1999, 1998
and 1997 fiscal years, net sales to customers outside the United States (exports
and foreign  operations)  accounted for  approximately  46.1%,  43.0% and 40.6%,
respectively, of the Company's total net sales.

Competition

         The  Company's   products   compete  with  similar  products  of  other
manufacturers, many of which have substantially greater financial resources than
the Company.  In the  electronic  fuse market,  the  Company's  competitors  are
Bussmann,  a division of Cooper Industries,  Bel Fuse, Inc., Raychem Division of
TYCO  International,  San-O  Industrial  Corp. and  Wickmann-Werke  GmbH. In the
circuit  protection  market,  the  Company's  competitors  are  Bourns,  Raychem
Division of TYCO  International,  AVX,  Maida,  Panasonic  and  Siemens.  In the
fuseholder  portion  of this  market,  the  Company's  principal  competitor  is
Schurter, Inc. In the automotive fuse market, the Company's competitors, both in
sales to  automobile  manufacturers  and in the  aftermarket,  are  Bussmann and
Pudenz  Division  of  Wickmann-Werke.   The  Company  licenses  several  of  its
automotive  fuse designs to Bussmann.  In the power fuse market,  the  Company's
major competitors include Bussmann and Ferraz Shawmut. The Company believes that
it  competes  primarily  on the basis of  innovative  products,  the  breadth of
available  product  lines,  the  quality  and  design  of its  products  and the
responsiveness of its customer service rather than through price competition.

Backlog

         The Company  does not consider  backlog to be a  predictive  measure of
results due to the Company's short delivery time. The Company  manufactures high
volume  products  based on its  demand  forecasts  and  manufactures  low volume
products based on customer orders. The Company attempts to ship such products to
the  customer  within five  business  days of the date of the order.  Generally,
orders which  request  delivery  within three weeks of the date of the order are
filled on time from available stock or current production.

Employees

         During  1999,  the  Company  employed   approximately   3,256  persons.
Approximately  54  employees  in Des  Plaines  and 694  employees  in Mexico are
covered by collective bargaining  agreements.  The Des Plaines agreement expires
March 31, 2002 and the Mexico  agreement  expires  January 31, 2001. The Company
has not  experienced any work stoppage or other form of labor dispute within the
last 20 years.  The Company  believes that its employee  relations are excellent
and that its  employees,  many of whom have long  experience  with the  Company,
represent a valuable  resource.  The Company  emphasizes  employee  training and
development and has established  Quality  Improvement Process (QIP) training for
its  employees   worldwide  so  as  to  promote  product  quality  and  customer
satisfaction.

Year 2000

For information  relating to Year 2000 see "Item 7. Management's  Discussion and
Analysis  of  Financial  Conditions  and  Results  of  Operations  - Year  2000"
incorporated herein by reference.

Environmental Regulation

         The Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations
relating to air and water quality,  the disposal of hazardous  waste  materials,
safety and health.  Compliance with applicable environmental regulations has not
significantly changed the Company's  competitive  position,  capital spending or
earnings  in the  past  and the  Company  does  not  presently  anticipate  that
compliance with such regulations will change its competitive  position,  capital
spending  or  earnings  for the  foreseeable  future.  The  Company  employs  an
environmental  engineer to monitor  regulatory  matters and believes  that it is
currently in compliance in all material  respects with applicable  environmental
laws and  regulations,  except with respect to its facility  located in Ireland.
This facility was recently  acquired in connection  with the  acquisition of the
Harris suppression products division.  Corrective steps are being taken to bring
this facility into  compliance  with Irish  environmental  laws, and the Company
received an indemnity  from Harris  Corporation  with respect to these  matters.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Littelfuse Facilities

         The Company's  operations are located in 19 owned or leased  facilities
worldwide,  containing  approximately 702,000 square feet. The U.S. headquarters
and principal  fabrication and distribution  facility is located in Des Plaines,
Illinois,  supported  by two  additional  plants in Illinois  and one in Mexico.
European  headquarters  and  the  primary  European  distribution  center  is in
Utrecht,  The Netherlands,  with  manufacturing  plants in England,  Ireland and
Switzerland.  Asia Pacific operations  include a distribution  center located in
Singapore,  with manufacturing  plants in Korea, China and the Philippines.  The
Company does not believe that it will  encounter any  difficulty in renewing its
existing leases upon the expiration of their current terms.  Management believes
that the  Company's  facilities  are adequate to meet its  requirements  for the
foreseeable future.

          The  following  table  provides  certain  information  concerning  the
Company's facilities:

<TABLE>

                                                                                     Lease
                                                                                     Expir-
                                                        Size         Lease/          Ation        Industry
Location                          Use                   (sq.ft.)      Own             Date          Focus


<S>                                                       <C>        <C>             <C>          <C>
Des Plaines, Illinois             Administrative,         340,000    Owned               --       Auto, Electronic, Power
                                  Engineering,
                                  Manufacturing,
                                  Testing and Research

Centralia, Illinois               Manufacturing           45,200     Owned               --       Electronic

Arcola, Illinois                  Manufacturing          36,000      Owned               --       Power

Livonia, Michigan                 Administrative           1,200     Leased             2004      Auto

Piedras Negras, Mexico            Manufacturing          50,031      Leased             2000      Auto, Electronic, Power

Piedras Negras, Mexico            Manufacturing          12,594      Leased             2003      Electronic and Power

Piedras Negras, Mexico            Manufacturing          22,711      Leased             2002      Electronic and Power

Washington,                       Manufacturing,         60,000      Owned               --       Electronic, Auto, Other
England                           Sales and
                                  Distribution

Utrecht, The Netherlands          Warehousing              8,680     Leased             2001      Auto, Electronic, Other
</TABLE>

<PAGE>

<TABLE>

                                                                                     Lease
                                                                                     Expir-
                                                        Size         Lease/          Ation        Industry
Location                          Use                   (sq.ft.)      Own             Date          Focus

<S>                                                      <C>         <C>             <C>          <C>
Utrecht, The Netherlands          Sales,                 12,000      Owned               --       Auto, Electronic, Other
                                  Administrative  and
                                  Engineering

Grenchen, Switzerland             Manufacturing          11,000      Owned               --       Auto

Singapore                         Sales and                9,827     Leased             2002      Electronic and Auto
                                  Distribution
Seoul, Korea                      Sales and              29,175      Owned               --       Electronic and Auto
                                  Manufacturing
Philippines                       Manufacturing          10,200      Leased             2000      Electronic
Suzhou, China                     Manufacturing          40,000      Owned               --       Electronic
Hong Kong, China                  Sales                    3,079     Leased             2002      Electronic
Yokohama, Japan                   Engineering              8,811     Leased             2000      Electronic
Sao Paulo, Brazil                 Sales and
                                  Distribution            1,200      Leased             2000      Electronic, Auto

Dundalk, Ireland                  Manufacturing           120,000    Owned               --       Electronic, Auto

</TABLE>


ITEM 3.   Legal Proceedings

         The Company is not a party to any legal  proceedings  which it believes
will have a material  adverse  effect  upon the  conduct of its  business or its
financial position.

ITEM 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

         There were no matters  submitted to the Company's  stockholders  during
the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The executive officers of the Company are as follows:



<PAGE>
<TABLE>


     Name                              Age                              Position

<S>                                     <C>            <C>
Howard B. Witt                          59             Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Kenneth R. Audino                       56             Vice President, Organizational Development
                                                         and Total Quality Management

William S. Barron                       57             Vice President, Marketing and Sales

Philip G. Franklin                      48             Vice President, Treasurer and Chief Financial
                                                                   Officer

Lloyd J. Turner                         56             Vice President, Operations

Hans Ouwehand                           53             Vice President, European Operations

Mary S. Muchoney                        54             Secretary

</TABLE>

Officers of  Littelfuse  are elected by the Board of Directors  and serve at the
discretion of the Board.

         Howard B. Witt was elected as the  Chairman of the Board of the Company
in May,  1993. He was promoted to President and Chief  Executive  Officer of the
Company in February,  1990.  Prior to his  appointment  as  President  and Chief
Executive  Officer,  Mr. Witt served in several other key  management  positions
with the Company,  including Operations Manager from March 1979 to January 1986,
Vice  President-Manufacturing  Operations from January 1986 to January 1988, and
Executive  Vice  President  with full  operating  responsibilities  for all U.S.
activities from January 1988 to February 1990. Prior to joining Littelfuse,  Mr.
Witt was a division  president of Keene  Corporation from 1974 to 1979. Mr. Witt
serves as a Director  of Franklin  Electric  Co.,  Inc.  and  Material  Sciences
Corporation and is a member of the Electronic  Industries  Association  Board of
Governors. He also serves as a director of the Artisan Mutual Fund.

         Kenneth R. Audino, Vice President, Organizational Development and Total
Quality   management,   is  responsible  for  the  Company's   overall  quality,
reliability and environmental  compliance,  quality systems, human resources and
training efforts.  Mr. Audino joined Littelfuse as a Control Technician in 1964.
From  1964 to 1977,  he  progressed  through  several  quality  and  reliability
positions to Manager of Reliability  and Standards.  In 1983, he became Managing
Director of the European  Headquarters and later was named Corporate Director of
Quality  Assurance and  Reliability.  He was promoted to his current position in
1998.

     William S. Barron, Vice President,  Sales and Marketing, is responsible for
the Company's overall sales and marketing. Mr. Barron joined Littelfuse in March
1991. From August 1981 to March 1991, Mr. Barron served as Director of Sales and
Marketing of Cinch Manufacturing,  a division of TRW, and the General Manager of
one of its domestic divisions.

         Philip G.  Franklin,  Vice  President,  Treasurer  and Chief  Financial
Officer,  has responsibility  for the treasury,  investor  relations,  financial
control,  financial  reporting and information systems functions of the Company.
Mr.  Franklin  joined the Company in 1998 from  OmniQuip  International,  a $450
million construction equipment manufacturer which he helped take public.

         Lloyd J. Turner,  Vice President,  Operations,  has  responsibility for
manufacturing  operations  and related  support  functions.  Mr.  Turner  joined
Littelfuse in October 1988, as Director of Manufacturing Operations after having
served as an  Operations  Manager with Texas  Instruments  from November 1984 to
September 1988. He was promoted to his current position in 1991.

         Hans Ouwehand, Vice President,  European Operations, has responsibility
for all sales,  marketing,  manufacturing and engineering  activities in Europe.
Mr. Ouwehand  joined  Littelfuse in 1984 as Sales Manager,  Europe,  Electronics
Division.  He was later promoted to the position of European Sales and Marketing
Manager  for all  Littelfuse  products  and in 1986 to the  position  of General
Manager-European   Operations.  Prior  to  joining  Littelfuse,  his  industrial
background included research and development work with Sperry Rand and sales and
product management with Lameris Medical Instruments.

     Mary S.  Muchoney  has served as  Corporate  Secretary  since  1991,  after
joining Littelfuse in 1977. She is responsible for providing all secretarial and
administrative  functions for the President and  Littelfuse  Board of Directors.
Ms. Muchoney is a member of the American Society of Corporate Secretaries.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

         The information set forth under  "Quarterly  Stock Price" on page 40 of
the Annual Report to  Stockholders is  incorporated  herein by reference.  It is
also included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC. As of March 10, 2000, there
were 236 holders of record of the Company's  Common Stock and in excess of 2,700
beneficial holders of its Common Stock.

         Since  September 22, 1992,  shares of the Common Stock have been traded
in the  over-the-counter  market and  quotations  are reported  using the symbol
"LFUS" on The Nasdaq Stock Market.

         The  Company has not paid any cash  dividends  in its  history.  Future
dividend  policy will be determined  by the Board of Directors  based upon their
evaluation  of  earnings,  cash  availability  and general  business  prospects.
Currently,  there are restrictions on the payment of dividends  contained in the
Company's  bank credit  agreement  which  relate to the  maintenance  of certain
restricted payment ratios.

ITEM 6.  Selected Financial Data

         The information  set forth under  "Selected  Financial Data - Five Year
Summary" on page 40 of the Annual Report to Stockholders is incorporated  herein
by reference. It is also included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC.


<PAGE>


ITEM 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

         The information set forth under  "Management's  Discussion and Analysis
of Financial  Condition and Results of Operations" on pages 20 through 23 of the
Annual Report to Stockholders is  incorporated  herein by reference.  It is also
included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC.

ITEM 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks

         The  information set forth under "Market Risk" on page 23 of the Annual
Report to Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.  It is also included
in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC.

ITEM 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

         The  Report of  Independent  Auditors  and the  Consolidated  Financial
Statements  and notes thereto of the Company set forth on pages 24 through 35 of
the Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference. They are
also included in Exhibit 13.1 as filed with the SEC.

ITEM  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

         None.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

         The  information  set forth under  "Election of Directors" and "Section
16(a)  Beneficial  Ownership  Reporting  Compliance"  in the Proxy  Statement is
incorporated  herein by reference.  The information  set forth under  "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this Report is  incorporated  herein by
reference.

ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation

         The information set forth under "Compensation of Executive Officers" in
the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference, except for the sections
captioned "Reports of the Compensation Committee on Executive  Compensation" and
"Company Performance."

ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

         The information set forth under  "Ownership of Littelfuse,  Inc. Common
Stock" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.



<PAGE>


ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

         The  information  set forth under  "Certain  Relationships  and Related
Transactions" in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

               (a)         Financial Statements and Schedules

                     (1)   Financial   Statements.   The   following   financial
                           statements   included   in  the   Annual   Report  to
                           Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference.

                           (i)  Report of Independent Auditors (page 36)

                           (ii)  Consolidated  Statements of Financial Condition
                                 as of  January  1,  2000 and  January  2,  1999
                                 (pages 24 and 25).

                           (iii) Consolidated Statements of Income for the years
                                 ended  January  1,  2000,  January  2, 1999 and
                                 January 3, 1998 (page 26).

                           (iv)  Consolidated  Statements  of Cash Flows for the
                                 years  ended  January 1, 2000,  January 2, 1999
                                 and January 3, 1998 (page 27).

                           (v)   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
                                 for the years ended January 1, 2000, January 2,
                                 1999 and January 3, 1998.
                                 (page 28).

                           (vi)  Notes  to  Consolidated   Financial  Statements
                                   (pages 29-35).

                (2)   Financial  Statement  Schedules.  The following  financial
                      statement schedules are submitted herewith for the periods
                      indicated therein.

                    (i)  Schedule   II-Valuation  and  Qualifying  Accounts  and
                         Reserves

                      All other  schedules  for which  provision  is made in the
                      applicable  accounting  regulation of the  Securities  and
                      Exchange  Commission  are not  required  under the related
                      instructions or are inapplicable and, therefore, have been
                      omitted.

                (3)   Exhibits

                      See Exhibit Index on pages 21-23,  incorporated  herein by
                         reference.

    (b)         Reports on Form 8-K

                There were no  reports on Form 8-K during the fourth  quarter of
                    1999.



<PAGE>

<TABLE>


                                LITTELFUSE, INC.
          SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                 (In Thousands)



                                                                Additions
                                               Balance at       Charged to                         Balance at
                                               Beginning        Costs and       Deductions           End of
        Description                            Of Year          Expenses           (A)                Year
                                               ----------       ----------      ----------         -------
Year ended January 1, 2000
  Allowance for losses on
<S>                                            <C>              <C>             <C>                <C>
    accounts receivable . . . . . .            $ 1,103          $   614         $   147            $ 1,570
                                               =======          =======         =======            =======

  Reserves for sales discounts
    and allowances . . . . . . . .             $ 4,782          $   769         $    --            $ 5,551
                                               =======          =======         =========          =======



Year ended January 2, 1999
  Allowance for losses on
    accounts receivable . . . . . .            $ 1,118          $   626         $   641            $ 1,103
                                               =======          =======         =======            =======

  Reserves for sales discounts
    and allowances . . . . . . . .             $ 4,781          $      1        $    --            $ 4,782
                                               =======          ========        =========          =======



Year ended January 3, 1998
  Allowance for losses on
    accounts receivable . . . . . .            $    896         $   410         $   188            $ 1,118
                                               ========         =======         =======            =======

  Reserves for sales discounts
    and allowances . . . . . . . .             $ 4,161          $  620          $    --            $ 4,781
                                               =======          ======          =========          =======

</TABLE>


(A) Write-off of uncollectible  accounts, net of recoveries and foreign currency
translation.

<PAGE>




                                                              SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                            Littelfuse, Inc.

                                                          By /s/ Howard B. Witt
                                                                 Howard B. Witt,
                                                        Chairman, President and
                                                         Chief Executive Officer

Date:  March 20, 2000

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

/s/ Howard B. Witt                            Chairman of the Board, President
Howard B. Witt                                    and Chief Executive Officer

/s/ John P.  Driscoll                                 Director
John P. Driscoll

/s/ Anthony Grillo                                    Director
Anthony Grillo

/s/ Bruce A. Karsh                                    Director
Bruce A. Karsh

/s/ John E. Major                                      Director
John  E. Major

/s/ John J. Nevin                                     Director
John J. Nevin

/s/ Philip G. Franklin                         Vice President, Treasurer
Philip G. Franklin                               and Chief Financial Officer
                                                  (Principal Financial Officer)







<PAGE>
<TABLE>


<S>       <C>                                                                                       <C>
                                 LITTELFUSE INC.
                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                                  Sequentialc)
                                                                                                    Page Number
Number                                Description of Exhibit a)

2.1        Plan of Reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code of
           Old Littelfuse.

3.1 Certificate of Incorporation (as amended to date).

3.1A       Certificate  of  Designations  of Series A Preferred  Stock (filed as
           Exhibit  4.2 to the  Company's  Current  Report  on  Form  8-K  dated
           December 1, 1995 (1934 Act File No. 0-20388) and incorporated  herein
           by reference.)

3.2        Bylaws

4.1        Second amended restated bank credit agreement among Littelfuse, Inc.,
           as borrower, the lenders named therein and the First National Bank of
           Chicago, as agent, dated as of September 1, 1998.

4.2        Registration  Rights  Agreement,  dated  as  of  December  27,  1991,  between  Littelfuse,   Inc.  and  The
           Toronto-Dominion Bank Trust Company, as agent.

4.3        Warrant Agreement, dated as of December 27, 1991, between Littelfuse,
           Inc., and LaSalle  National Trust,  N.A., as warrant agent,  together
           with form of Warrant.  (filed as exhibit 4.3A to the  Company's  Form
           10-Q for the quarterly  period ended June 28, 1997 (1934 Act File No.
           -20388) and incorporated herein by reference), as amended.

4.4        Stock Plan for Employees and Directors of Littelfuse, Inc., as amended d)

4.5        Form of Stock Option Agreement

4.6        Specimen Common Stock certificate.

4.7        Littelfuse, Inc. Retirement Plan dated January 1, 1992, as amended and restated.d)
</TABLE>


____________

a)   All of the exhibits,  (except those filed herewith or specifically noted as
     being   incorporated  by  reference  from  a  different  filing  under  the
     Securities as of 1933 or Securities  act of 1934) were filed as exhibits to
     the Company's Form 10 as filed with the Securities and Exchange  Commission
     which became  effective on September  16, 1992 (1934 Act File No.  0-20388)
     and are incorporated herein by reference.
b)   Filed herewith.
c)   This information appears only in the manually signed copy of the report.
d)   Indicates an employee  benefit plan,  management  contract or  compensatory
     plan or arrangement in which a named executive officer participates.







<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                                                                                     Sequentialc)
<S>       <C>                                                                                       <C>
                                                                                                    Page Number
                                    Description of Exhibit a)
Number

4.8        Littelfuse, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan.d)

4.9        Note  Purchase  Agreement,  dated as of  August  31,  1993,  relating  to  $45,000,000  principal  amount  of
           Littelfuse, Inc. 6.31% Senior Notes due August 31, 2000.

4.10       Littelfuse  Rights Plan  Agreement,  dated as of December  15,  1995,
           between Littelfuse,  Inc. and LaSalle National Bank, as Rights Agent,
           together with Exhibits thereto, as amended.

4.11       Note  Purchase  Agreement  dated as of  September  1,  1998,  relating  to  $60,000,000  principal  amount  of
           Littelfuse, Inc. 6.16% Senior Notes due September 1, 2005.

b)4.12     Form of Restricted Share Agreement

10.3       Patent  License  Agreement,  dated  as  of  July  28,  1995,  between
           Littelfuse,  Inc.  and Pacific  Engineering  Company,  Ltd.(filed  as
           exhibit 10.3 to the  Company's  Form 10K for the year ended  December
           28, 1996)

10.4       MINI(R) and  MAXITM  License  Agreement,  dated as of  June 21,  1989,  between  Littelfuse,  Inc.  and  Cooper
           Industries, Inc.

10.5       Patent License Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1987, between Littelfuse, Inc. and Cooper Industries, Inc.

10.6       1993 Stock Plan for Employees and Directors of Littelfuse, Inc., as amended d)

10.7       Littelfuse, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.d)

10.8       Littelfuse Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-employee Directors, as amended.d)

</TABLE>

<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                                                                                      Sequentialc)
<S>       <C>                                                                                      <C>
                                                                                                   Page Number

Number                           Description of Exhibit a)


 10.9      Littelfuse  Executive  Loan  Program  (filed as  Exhibit  10.2 to the
           Company's Form 10Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 1995 (1934
           Act File No. 0-20388) and incorporated herein by reference.)d)

10.10      Employment Agreement dated as of September 1, 1996 between Littelfuse, Inc. and Howard B. Witt. d)

10.11      Change of Control Employment  Agreement dated as of September 1, 1996 between  Littelfuse,  Inc. and Howard B.
           Witt. d)

10.12      Form of change of Control  Employment  Agreement  dated as of September 1, 1996 between  Littelfuse,  Inc. and
           Messrs. Anderson, Audino, Barron, Krueger and Turner. d)

10.13      Form of change of Control Employment  Agreement dated as of January 4, 1999 between  Littelfuse,  Inc. and Mr.
           Franklin. d)

b)13.1     Portions of Littelfuse Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2000.

b)22.1     Subsidiaries.

b)23.1     Consent of Independent Auditors.

</TABLE>




<PAGE>




                                                           Exhibit 22.1

                                                           SUBSIDIARIES

Littelfuse, S.A. de C.V.
Littelfuse FSC
Littelfuse Do Brasil Ltda.
Watseka LF, Inc.

Littelfuse, B.V.
Littelfuse, A.G.
Littelfuse Limited
Harris Ireland Development Co., Ltd.
Harris Ireland Limited
Joyrush Investments Ltd.
REMPAT Holding B.V.
REMPAT Financial B.V.

Littelfuse Far East Pte Ltd.
Littelfuse HK Limited
Littelfuse Holdings Pte Ltd.
Suzhou Littelfuse OVS Ltd.
Littelfuse KK
Littelfuse Triad Inc.
Littelfuse Phils Inc.






</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>FDS --
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<CIK>                                        0000889331
<NAME>                                       Littelfuse, Inc.
<MULTIPLIER>                                   1,000
<CURRENCY>                                     USD

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   Year
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                              Jan-01-2000
<PERIOD-START>                                 Jan-03-1999
<PERIOD-END>                                   Jan-01-2000
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                1
<CASH>                                         1,888
<SECURITIES>                                   0
<RECEIVABLES>                                  59,583
<ALLOWANCES>                                   7,121
<INVENTORY>                                    48,916
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               119,137
<PP&E>                                         194,302
<DEPRECIATION>                                 18,461
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 275,698
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          78,215
<BONDS>                                        0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                          0
<PREFERRED>                                    0
<COMMON>                                       195
<OTHER-SE>                                     0
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   275,698
<SALES>                                        296,367
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               296,367
<CGS>                                          179,112
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  0
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                               0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                               0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                             5,253
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                40,677
<INCOME-TAX>                                   15,457
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                            0
<DISCONTINUED>                                 0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                0
<CHANGES>                                      0
<NET-INCOME>                                   25,220
<EPS-BASIC>                                  1.29
<EPS-DILUTED>                                  1.16



</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.12 - FORM OF RESTRICTED SHARES AGREEMENT
<TEXT>




                                                                 EXHIBIT 4.12


                           RESTRICTED SHARES AGREEMENT

         THIS RESTRICTED  SHARES AGREEMENT is entered into as of            ,
between           (the  "Recipient")  and  LITTELFUSE,  INC., a Delaware
corporation (the "Corporation"), with reference to the following facts:

          A.  Pursuant to the 1993 Stock Plan for  Employees  and  Directors  of
Littelfuse,  Inc. (the "Plan"), the Corporation is authorized to grant awards of
rights  ("Restricted  Units") to acquire  shares of its Common  Stock,  $.01 par
value (the "Common  Stock"),  on a  restricted  basis as provided in the Plan to
officers,  directors and  employees of the  Corporation  or any  Subsidiary as a
reward for past performance or as an incentive for future performance.

          B.   The  Corporation   desires  to  grant  Restricted  Units  to  the
               Recipient.

         NOW, THEREFORE,  IN CONSIDERATION of the foregoing facts and other good
and valuable consideration, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                    1. Grant of Restricted Units. The Corporation  hereby grants
         to the Recipient Restricted Units entitling the Recipient to acquire up
         to      shares of the Common  Stock  (hereinafter  referred to as the
         "Maximum  Restricted  Shares  Amount"),  subject in all respects to the
         provisions of the Plan and the terms and conditions set forth herein.

                    2. Number of Restricted Shares Deemed Earned. (a) The number
         of shares of the Common Stock which the Recipient  shall be entitled to
         be  issued  or paid for in cash  pursuant  to this  Agreement  shall be
         determined  pursuant to the following formula  (hereinafter said shares
         shall be  referred  to as the  "Restricted  Shares"  and said number of
         shares  resulting from said formula shall be referred to as the "Earned
         Restricted Shares Amount"):

                            (i) The Recipient  shall be deemed to have earned no
                  Restricted Shares in the event that EBITDA Growth is less than
                  10% or Average RONTA is less than 14%.

                           (ii) The Recipient shall be deemed to have earned 20%
                  of the Maximum  Restricted  Shares  Amount if EBITDA Growth is
                  equal to or greater  than 10% but less than 11%,  and  Average
                  RONTA is equal to or greater  than 14% but less than 15%.  For
                  each full percentage  point above the EBITDA Growth minimum of
                  10%, the recipient  will earn an incremental 8% of the Maximum
                  Restricted Shares Amount, up to a maximum of an additional 40%
                  of the Maximum  Restricted  Shares Amount.  Additionally,  for
                  each full percentage  point above the Average RONTA minimum of
                  14%, the recipient  will earn an incremental 8% of the Maximum
                  Restricted  Shares Amount up to a maximum of an additional 40%
                  of  the  Maximum  Restricted  Shares  Amount.  Therefore,  the
                  Maximum  Restricted  Shares  Amount is earned only when EBITDA
                  Growth is equal to or greater  than 15% and  Average  RONTA is
                  equal to or greater  than 19%.  The chart  attached  hereto as
                  Exhibit  A  illustrates   the  application  of  the  foregoing
                  formula.

                   (b)  As  used  herein,  the  term  "EBITDA"  shall  mean  the
         consolidated  net income of the  Corporation for each of the 1999, 2000
         and 2001 fiscal years of the  Corporation  (hereinafter  said three (3)
         year  period is  referred to as the  "Performance  Period");  provided,
         however,   that  in  calculating  said   consolidated  net  income,  no
         deductions  shall  be made for any  interest,  taxes,  depreciation  or
         amortization.

                   (c) As used herein,  the term "EBITDA  Growth" shall mean the
         compound  annual  growth rate in EBITDA  from fiscal year 1998  through
         fiscal year 2001 defined  mathematically as follows (but expressed as a
         percentage):

     EBITDA Growth = (fiscal year 2001 EBITDA / fiscal year 1998 EBITDA)1/3 - 1

                   (d)  As  used  herein,   the  term  "RONTA"  shall  mean  the
         percentage  return on net tangible  assets for the Corporation for each
         of the fiscal years of the Corporation  during the Performance  Period,
         calculated for each such fiscal year by dividing the  consolidated  net
         income of the  Corporation  for such  fiscal year by the average of the
         amounts of (x) the total assets minus the total intangible assets minus
         the total current  liabilities  of the  Corporation at the beginning of
         such fiscal year and (y) the total  assets  minus the total  intangible
         assets minus the total current  liabilities  of the  Corporation at the
         end of such fiscal year;  provided,  however,  that current liabilities
         shall not include the current portion of long term debt for purposes of
         this calculation.

                   (e) As used herein,  the term "Average  RONTA" shall mean the
         average  RONTA for each of the three  fiscal  years of the  Corporation
         during the Performance Period.

                   (f) To the extent applicable,  all calculations of EBITDA and
         RONTA,  and the components  thereof,  shall be made in accordance  with
         generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.

                   (g) In  the  event  that  the  Corporation  shall  amend  its
         financial  statements for any of its fiscal years 1999, 2000 or 2001 at
         any time after March 15, 2002,  and before January 2, 2005, so that any
         of the items used to calculate  EBITDA or RONTA for any of those fiscal
         years are materially  changed,  the Committee,  in its discretion,  may
         make appropriate  adjustments to the number of Restricted Shares deemed
         earned pursuant to Section 2 hereof.

                   (h) In the event that the Corporation or any Subsidiary shall
         be a party to any merger or  consolidation  or  acquisition  of assets,
         shall  sell all or  substantially  all of its  assets or enter into any
         other  transaction  which,  in the good faith opinion of the Committee,
         will have a material effect (either  positive or negative) on EBITDA or
         RONTA during the Performance  Period or the ability of the Recipient to
         obtain  the  economic  benefit  contemplated  by  this  Agreement,  the
         Committee  shall   appropriately  and  reasonably  adjust  the  formula
         contained in Section 2(a) to provide the Recipient  with  substantially
         the same opportunity to obtain  substantially the same economic benefit
         that the Recipient would have if said  transaction had not been entered
         into,  said  adjustment  to be evidenced in a writing  delivered by the
         Corporation to the Recipient.

                   (g) In the  event  that at  anytime  from and  after the date
         hereof to and including  January 2, 2002, there shall occur any changes
         in  the  outstanding   Common  Stock  by  reason  of  stock  dividends,
         split-ups,  recapitalizations,  mergers, consolidations,  combinations,
         exchanges of shares, separations, reorganizations, liquidations and the
         like,  the Committee  shall  appropriately  and  reasonably  adjust the
         Maximum  Restricted Shares Amount, the Earned Restricted Shares Amount,
         the number of any  earned but  unissued  Restricted  Shares  and/or the
         amount of any earned but unpaid Restricted Payments.

                    3.  Issuance  of  Restricted  Shares.  In the event that the
         Recipient is deemed to have earned any  Restricted  Shares  pursuant to
         the  provisions  of Section 2 hereof,  a  certificate  or  certificates
         representing  that number of shares of the Common  Stock which is equal
         to  one-half  (1/2) of the Earned  Restricted  Shares  Amount  shall be
         issued in the  Recipient's  name as of March 15,  2002,  and as soon as
         reasonably  practical  after  the  delivery  by  the  Recipient  to the
         Corporation  of a stock  power  signed in blank by the  Recipient  with
         respect to such Restricted  Shares and in a form which is acceptable to
         the  Corporation  which may be used by the  Corporation  to cancel such
         Restricted  Shares in  accordance  with the  provisions of the Plan and
         this Agreement.  Upon issuance of the  certificate or certificates  for
         such  Restricted  Shares,  the Recipient  shall be a  stockholder  with
         respect  to such  Restricted  Shares and shall have all the rights of a
         stockholder with respect to such Restricted  Shares,  including but not
         limited  to,  the right to vote such  Restricted  Shares and to receive
         dividends and other  distributions paid with respect to such Restricted
         Shares.  The certificate or certificates  representing  such Restricted
         Shares,  together  with  the  executed  stock  power,  shall be held in
         custody  by  the  Corporation  or an  agent  therefor  pursuant  to the
         provisions of the Plan for the account of the Recipient.

                    4. Payment of Cash in Lieu of Issuance of Restricted Shares.
         In the event that the Recipient is deemed to have earned any Restricted
         Shares pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 hereof,  the Corporation
         shall pay to the Recipient on each of January 2, 2003, 2004 and 2005 an
         amount in cash (in lieu of the issuance of Restricted  Shares) equal to
         the product of (i) one-sixth  (1/6th) of the Earned  Restricted  Shares
         Amount  multiplied by (ii) the Market Price of the Common Stock on such
         date  (hereinafter  referred  to as a  "Restricted  Payment").  As used
         herein,  the term "Market  Price" shall mean (x) if the Common Stock is
         Duly  Listed,  the  closing  price of the  Common  Stock on the date in
         question as reported on either a national securities exchange or on The
         Nasdaq  Stock  Market or, if there  were no sales on that date,  on the
         next preceding day on which there were sales or (y) if the Common Stock
         is not Duly  Listed,  the fair market  value of the Common Stock on the
         date in question as determined by the Committee in good faith.

                    5.  Restrictions.  The Restricted  Units awarded pursuant to
         this Agreement and any Restricted  Shares or Restricted  Payments which
         may be  deemed  to be earned or owing  with  respect  thereto  shall be
         subject to the following terms and conditions (the "Restrictions"):

                            (i) the Recipient  shall not be entitled to delivery
                  of a certificate  representing the Restricted Shares until the
                  Restrictions  pertaining thereto shall be terminated  pursuant
                  to either Sections 6 or 7 hereof;

                           (ii)  none  of the  Restricted  Units  may  be  sold,
                  transferred,  assigned,  pledged or  otherwise  encumbered  or
                  disposed of;

                          (iii)  none  of the  Restricted  Shares  may be  sold,
                  transferred,  assigned,  pledged or  otherwise  encumbered  or
                  disposed of until the Restrictions pertaining thereto shall be
                  terminated pursuant to either Sections 6 or 7 hereof;

                           (iv) all of the  Restricted  Units shall be forfeited
                  and  cancelled  and  all  rights  of  the  Recipient  to  such
                  Restricted  Units  and any  Restricted  Shares  or  Restricted
                  Payments  which  may be  deemed  to be  earned  or owing  with
                  respect thereto shall terminate without further  obligation on
                  the part of the  Corporation  in the event that the  Recipient
                  ceases to be an  Employee  for any reason  prior to January 2,
                  2002, for any reason;

                            (v) all of the  Restricted  Shares  which are issued
                  pursuant to Section 3 hereof shall be forfeited  and cancelled
                  and the Recipient shall have no further rights whatsoever with
                  respect  thereto  in the event the  Recipient  ceases to be an
                  Employee prior to January 2, 2003, for any reason other than a
                  reason set forth in Section 7 hereof;

                           (vi)  two-thirds  (2/3rds) of any  Restricted  Shares
                  which  are  issued  pursuant  to  Section  3  hereof  shall be
                  forfeited  and  cancelled  and  the  Recipient  shall  have no
                  further rights  whatsoever  with respect  thereto in the event
                  the  Recipient  ceases to be an  Employee  prior to January 2,
                  2004, for any reason other than a reason  described in Section
                  7 hereof;

                          (vii) one-third (1/3rd) of any Restricted Shares which
                  are issued pursuant to Section 3 hereof shall be forfeited and
                  cancelled  and the  Recipient  shall  have no  further  rights
                  whatsoever  with  respect  thereto in the event the  Recipient
                  ceases to be an  Employee  prior to January  2, 2005,  for any
                  reason other than a reason described in Section 7 hereof;

                         (viii)  any  right  of the  Recipient  to  receive  any
                  Restricted  Payments  pursuant  to  Section 4 hereof  shall be
                  forfeited  and  cancelled  and  the  Recipient  shall  have no
                  further rights  whatsoever  with respect  thereto in the event
                  the Recipient ceases to be an Employee prior to the applicable
                  payment date for such Restricted  Payment for any reason other
                  than a reason described in Section 7 hereof.

                    6. Vesting of Restricted Shares. The Restrictions respecting
         the  Restricted  Shares issued  pursuant to Section 3 hereof which have
         not  theretofore  been  forfeited and  cancelled  pursuant to Section 5
         hereof  shall  terminate  with  respect  to  one-third  (1/3rd) of such
         Restricted  Shares on each of  January  2,  2003,  January  2, 2004 and
         January 2, 2005.

                    7.  Termination of  Restrictions  upon Certain  Events.  The
         Restrictions  shall  terminate  with  respect to all of the  Restricted
         Shares and the  Restricted  Payments  which have not  theretofore  been
         forfeited and cancelled  pursuant to Section 5 hereof upon the first to
         occur of the following events:

               (i)    the death of the Recipient;

               (ii)   the Total Disability of the Recipient;

               (iii)  the  termination  of the  employment  of the  Recipient
                         pursuant to an Eligible Retirement; or

               (iv)   the occurrence of a Change in Control.

                    8.  Issuance  of Stock  Certificate  for  Vested  Restricted
         Shares.  Upon  the  termination  of  the  Restrictions  respecting  any
         Restricted  Shares pursuant to Section 6 hereof,  the Corporation shall
         promptly cause a stock certificate  representing such Restricted Shares
         to be delivered to the Recipient, free and clear of all Restrictions.

                    9. Accelerated  Delivery of Stock Certificate and Payment of
         Restricted   Payments.   Upon  the  termination  of  the   Restrictions
         respecting  any  Restricted  Shares  pursuant to Section 7 hereof,  the
         Corporation shall promptly cause a stock certificate  representing such
         Restricted  Shares to be delivered to the Recipient,  free and clear of
         all Restrictions, and shall promptly pay in cash an amount equal to the
         product of (i) 1/2 (if such  termination  occurs on or prior to January
         2, 2003), 1/3 (if such termination occurs after January 2, 2003, and on
         or prior to January 2, 2004) or 1/6 (if such  termination  occurs after
         January 2, 2004) of the Earned  Restricted  Shares Amount multiplied by
         (ii)  the  Market  Price  of the  Common  Stock  on the  date  of  such
         termination.

                   10. Compliance with Law. No Restricted Shares shall be issued
         pursuant to this Agreement  unless said issuance is in compliance  with
         applicable federal and state tax and securities laws.

                         10.1.   Certificate   Legends.   The  certificates  for
                    Restricted  Shares issued  pursuant to this Agreement  shall
                    bear any legends  deemed  necessary  or  appropriate  by the
                    Corporation.

                          10.2. Representations of the Recipient. At the request
                  of  the  Corporation,   the  Recipient  will  deliver  to  the
                  Corporation such signed  representations  as may be necessary,
                  in the opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Corporation, for
                  compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws.

                          10.3.   Resale.   In  addition  to  the   restrictions
                  contained  in the Plan,  the  Recipient's  ability to transfer
                  Restricted   Shares  issued  pursuant  to  this  Agreement  or
                  securities  acquired in lieu  thereof or in exchange  therefor
                  may be restricted  under federal or state securities laws. The
                  Recipient shall not resell or offer for resale such Restricted
                  Shares or  securities  unless  they have  been  registered  or
                  qualified  for resale under all  applicable  federal and state
                  securities  laws or an  exemption  from such  registration  or
                  qualification   is   available   in  the  opinion  of  counsel
                  satisfactory to the Corporation.

                   11. Notice.  Every notice or other communication  relating to
         this Agreement  shall be in writing and shall be mailed or delivered to
         the party for whom it is intended  at such  address as may from time to
         time be designated by such party in a notice mailed or delivered to the
         other  party as herein  provided;  provided,  however,  that unless and
         until  some   other   address  be  so   designated,   all   notices  or
         communications  by the Recipient to the Corporation  shall be mailed or
         delivered to the  Corporation  to the attention of its Secretary at 800
         E. Northwest Highway,  Des Plaines,  Illinois 60016, and all notices or
         communications  by the Corporation to the Recipient may be given to the
         Recipient  personally  or may be  mailed to the  Recipient  at the most
         recent  address  which the  Recipient  has  provided  in writing to the
         Corporation.

                   12. Tax Treatment.  The Recipient  acknowledges  that the tax
         treatment  respecting  the  Restricted  Shares issued  pursuant to this
         Agreement or any events or  transactions  with  respect  thereto may be
         dependent  upon various  factors or events which are not  determined by
         the Plan or this Agreement. The Corporation makes no representations to
         the Recipient with respect to and hereby  disclaims all  responsibility
         as to such tax treatment.

                   13.  Withholding  Taxes. The Corporation shall have the right
         to  deduct  from  the  amount  of  any  Restricted  Payment  an  amount
         sufficient  to satisfy  any  federal,  state or local  withholding  tax
         requirement.  The  Corporation  shall  have the  right to  require  the
         Recipient to remit to the  Corporation an amount  sufficient to satisfy
         any federal,  state or local  withholding tax requirement  prior to the
         issuance or delivery of any  Restricted  Shares to the  Recipient.  The
         Corporation  will notify the Recipient of the amount of the withholding
         tax which must be paid under federal and, where  applicable,  state and
         local law. Upon receipt of such notice,  the Recipient  shall  promptly
         remit to the  Corporation  the  amount  specified  in such  notice.  No
         amounts of income received by the Recipient  pursuant to this Agreement
         shall  be  considered  compensation  for  purposes  of any  pension  or
         retirement  plan,  insurance plan or any other employee benefit plan of
         the Corporation or any subsidiary.

                   14. Effect on SERP. The  Corporation  and the Recipient agree
         that  neither the value of any shares of Common Stock  issued,  nor the
         amount of any cash paid,  to the Recipient  pursuant to this  Agreement
         shall  be  included  in the  definition  of  "Compensation"  under  the
         Littelfuse, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.

                   15.  Change in Control.  The  Corporation  and the  Recipient
         agree that Oaktree Capital Management,  LLC and its affiliates shall be
         deemed to be exempt  from the  provisions  of  subparagraph  (d) of the
         definition of "Change in Control" under the Plan.

         IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  Corporation  and the Recipient have executed
this Restricted Shares Agreement effective as of the date first set forth above.

LITTELFUSE, INC.                                     RECIPIENT:


By_________________________________         __________________________________
Its_________________________________


<PAGE>


<TABLE>




                                                     EXHIBIT A


                                   ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------

<S>                <C>                 <C>           <C>           <C>            <C>           <C>           <C>
                   15% and over        60%           68%           76%            84%           92%           100%
                                   ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------
                                   ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------

                  >14< 15%             52%           60%           68%            76%           84%           92%
                  -
                                   ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------
                                   ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------

EBITDA            >13< 14%             44%           52%           60%            68%           76%           84%
                  -

GROWTH

                                   ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------
                                   ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------

                  >12< 13%             36%           44%           52%            60%           68%           76%
                  -
                                   ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------
                                   ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------

                  >11< 12%             28%           36%           44%            52%           60%           68%
                  -
                                                 ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------
                                   ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------

                  >10< 11%             20%           28%           36%            44%           52%           60%
                  -
                                   ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------
                                                 ------------- ------------- -------------- ------------- -------------

                                     >14< 15%        >15< 16%    >16< 17%      >17< 18%       >18< 19%      19% and
                                     -               -           -             -              -
                                                                                                              over


                                                   AVERAGE RONTA

</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>13.1 - PORTIONS OF LITTELFUSE, INC. ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>


         Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations




THE FOLLOWING  DISCUSSION  PROVIDES AN ANALYSIS OF THE INFORMATION  CONTAINED IN
THE CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS AND ACCOMPANYING NOTES BEGINNING ON PAGE
24 FOR THE THREE FISCAL YEARS ENDED JANUARY 1, 2000, JANUARY 2, 1999 AND JANUARY
3, 1998, RESPECTIVELY.

CURRENT YEAR HIGHLIGHTS
Sales  increased  10% in 1999 to $296.4  million and diluted  earnings per share
increased   35%  to   $1.16.   Strengthening   electronic   demand   contributed
significantly to the sales growth and successful cost reduction programs as well
as higher unit volume increased gross margin and earnings.  During the year, the
Company  completed its  acquisition  of the  Suppression  Products  Group.  This
acquisition of overvoltage  products complements the current line of overcurrent
products to broaden the Company's offering of circuit protection.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS--1999 COMPARED WITH 1998
Sales  increased 10% to $296.4  million in 1999 from $269.5  million in 1998. Of
the $26.9 million sales increase during 1999,  $8.0 million was  attributable to
sales of  suppression  products  since the date of the  acquisition.  Electronic
sales  increased  $21.1  million or 16% to $154.1  million in 1999  compared  to
$133.1  million in 1998, due primarily to strength in the  Asia-Pacific  region.
Automotive sales increased $4.6 million or 5% to $101.3 million in 1999 compared
to $96.7 million in 1998 reflecting  growth in the OEM markets in all regions of
the world.  Power fuse sales  increased  $1.2 million or 3% to $41.0  million in
1999 compared to $39.8 million in 1998. Led by  Asia-Pacific  and European sales
growth,  international  sales  increased by 18% in 1999 to 46.1% of net sales in
1999 from 43.0% of net sales in 1998.

Gross  profit was $117.3  million or 39.6% of sales for 1999  compared to $100.2
million or 37.2% of sales for 1998.  The gross  margin  increase  resulted  from
successful  worldwide cost  reductions,  increasing unit volumes during the year
and  firming of selling  prices in the last half of 1999.  Selling,  general and
administrative expenses increased $5.2 million to 18.9% of sales in 1999 in line
with 18.9% of sales in 1998.  Research  and  development  costs  increased  $1.1
million  to 3.2% of  sales in 1999 as  compared  to 3.1% of sales in 1998 due to
continued focus on development of new products.  Amortization of  reorganization
value and other  intangibles was $7.1 million or 2.4% of sales for 1999 compared
to $6.8 million or 2.5% of sales for the prior year.  Total operating  expenses,
including intangibles amortization, were 24.5% of sales for both years.

Operating  income for 1999 increased to $44.6 million or 15.1% of sales compared
to $34.1 million or 12.6% of sales for the prior year as a result of the factors
discussed  above.  Interest  expense was $5.3 million for 1999  compared to $4.0
million for 1998 due to higher average debt levels.
Other income, net, consisting of interest income, royalties, minority
interest and foreign  currency items was $1.3 million  compared to other expense
of $0.1 million for the prior year.  The increase in other income was  primarily
the result of higher interest income in the year.

Income before taxes was $40.7 million in 1999 compared to $30.0 million in 1998.
Income tax expense was $15.5 million in 1999 compared to $10.1 million the prior
year. Net income for the year was $25.2  million,  compared to $19.9 million for
the prior year.  The Company's  effective tax rate was 38.0% in 1999 compared to
33.7% in  1998.  The  lower  effective  tax  rate in 1998 was due to a  one-time
benefit  related to the  liquidation  of one of the  Company's  subsidiaries  in
Korea.  Diluted  earnings per share  increased  35% to $1.16 in 1999 compared to
$0.86 in 1998. A 6% decline in average shares outstanding in 1999 as compared to
the prior year,  due to the Company's  repurchase  of common stock,  contributed
favorably to the increase in earnings per share.

1998 COMPARED WITH 1997
Sales  decreased 2% to $269.5  million in 1998 from $275.2  million in 1997. The
gross margin was 37.2% compared to 40.4% the prior year and operating income was
12.7% of net sales compared to 15.9% the prior year. Net income decreased 22% to
$19.9 million in 1998 from $25.3 million in 1997 and diluted  earnings per share
decreased 20% to $0.86 in 1998 from $1.07 in 1997.

Sales decreased $5.6 million during 1998.  Sales declined both in the automotive
and electronic markets,  with a modest increase in power fuse sales.  Automotive
sales  decreased  $5.5 million or 5% to $96.7 million in 1998 compared to $102.1
million  in 1997.  Automotive  sales were down  domestically  as a result of the
continued phase-out of electromechanical products and the absence of any product
fixes by the automotive  OEM's in 1998.  Electronic sales decreased $1.9 million
or 1% to  $133.1  million  in 1998  compared  to  $135.0  million  in 1997.  The
electronics  business was down due in part to continued inventory  reductions at
North  American  distributors,  weakness  in Japan and greater  than  historical
selling price  declines.  Power fuse sales increased $1.8 million or 5% to $39.8
million  in 1998  compared  to $38.0  million  in 1997.  Led by  European  sales
increases,  international sales increased by 4% in 1998 to 43.0% of net sales in
1998 from 40.6% of net sales in 1997.

On a constant  currency basis,  electronic and power fuse sales increased 3% and
5%,  respectively,  automotive  sales decreased 4% and  consolidated  sales were
flat.  Gross  profit was $100.2  million or 37.2% of sales for 1998  compared to
$111.1  million or 40.4% of sales for 1997.  The gross margin  decline  resulted
from  greater than  historical  selling  price  reductions,  lower  volumes than
anticipated and costs associated with the introduction of new products in 1998.

Selling,  general and administrative expenses decreased $1.3 million to 18.9% of
sales in 1998 as  compared  to 19.0% of sales in 1997 as a result of the decline
in sales and favorable  expense  control during 1998.  Research and  development
costs  increased  $0.5  million to 3.1% of sales in 1998 as  compared to 2.9% of
sales in 1997 due to the continued development of new products.  Amortization of
reorganization value and other intangibles was $6.8 million or 2.5% of sales for
1998  compared  to $7.2  million  or 2.6% of  sales  in the  prior  year.  Total
operating expenses, including intangibles amortization,  were 24.5% of sales for
both years.

Operating  income for 1998 was $34.1 million or 12.7% of sales compared to $43.8
million  or 15.9% of sales the prior  year.  The  decline  in  operating  margin
resulted from decreases in gross margin.

Interest  expense was $4.0  million for 1998  compared to $4.1 million for 1997.
Other expense,  net, consisting of royalties,  minority interest adjustments and
foreign currency items was $0.1 million compared to other income of $1.0 million
the prior year.  Also included in other expense in 1998 were charges  related to
the liquidation of Sam Hwa Littelfuse
amounting to approximately $0.4 million.


Income before taxes was $30.0 million in 1998 compared to $40.7 million in 1997.
Income tax expense was $10.1 million in 1998 compared to $15.3 million the prior
year.  The  Company's  effective tax rate was 33.7% in 1998 compared to 37.7% in
1997. The decrease in income tax expense resulted from lower income before taxes
as well as a one-time  benefit of $1.1 million related to the liquidation of Sam
Hwa  Littelfuse.  Net income for the year was $19.9  million in 1998 compared to
$25.3 million the prior year.  Diluted  earnings per share decreased to $0.86 in
1998 compared to $1.07 in 1997.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
Assuming no material adverse changes in market  conditions,  management  expects
that the Company will have  sufficient  cash from operations to support both its
operations and its debt obligations for the foreseeable future.

The  Company  started  1999 with $28.0  million of cash.  Net cash  provided  by
operations  was $38.9  million for the year.  Cash used in investing  activities
included  $20.0  million in property,  plant and equipment and $24.8 million for
the Harris Corporation's  Suppression  Products Group acquisition.  Cash used in
financing  activities  included net payments of long-term  debt of $9.1 million.
The Company utilized borrowings under its revolving loan facility to finance the
purchase of Harris Corporation's Suppression Products Group and had $6.0 million
of this  short-term  debt remaining as of January 1, 2000. This left the Company
with $49.0 million of borrowing  capability under the revolving loan facility as
of January 1, 2000.  The  repurchase  of the  Company's  common  stock for $12.8
million was partially offset by cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options
and conversion of warrants of $1.6 million.  The effect of exchange rate changes
increased  cash by $0.2 million.  The net of cash provided by  operations,  less
investing  activities,  less financing  activities,  plus the effect of exchange
rates  resulted in a $26.1  million net decrease in cash.  This left the Company
with a cash balance of $1.9 million at the end of 1999.

Net working  capital  used $8.4  million of cash flow from  operations  in 1999.
Increases in accounts receivable of $14.3 million, inventory of $8.9 million and
other asset and liability  changes of $0.1 million were offset by an increase in
accounts  payable and accrued  expenses of $14.9  million.  Contributing  to the
increase  in working  capital in 1999 was an  increase  in sales as well as some
information  systems  migration  difficulties,  which the Company is addressing.
Increased focus has been placed on working capital  management and  improvements
are expected in 2000.

The  Company  started  1998 with $0.8  million  of cash.  Net cash  provided  by
operations  was $39.3  million  for the year.  Cash used to invest in  property,
plant and equipment was $21.3  million,  to invest in product  acquisitions  for
electrostatic  discharge devices and medium voltage power fuses was $2.8 million
and to make a non-compete  payment was $0.2 million.  Cash provided by financing
activities  included net proceeds of  long-term  debt of $33.9  million due to a
$60.0 million  private  placement of new senior notes and  renegotiation  of the
existing bank credit  agreement.  The available  $55.0  million  revolving  loan
facility was unused as of January 2, 1999. The purchase of the Company's  common
stock for $26.8 million was partially  offset by cash proceeds from the exercise
of stock options and conversion of warrants of $6.3 million.
The effect of exchange rate changes decreased cash
by  $1.1  million.  The net of  cash  provided  by  operations,  less  investing
activities,  less  financing  activities,  plus the  effect  of  exchange  rates
resulted in a $27.2  million net increase in cash.  This left the Company with a
cash balance of $28.0 million at the end of 1998.

Net working  capital  used $2.8 million of cash flow from  operations  for 1998.
Lower  inventory  and prepaid and other items were the primary  cash  providers,
offset by an increase in accounts receivable and a decrease in accounts payable.

The Company's capital  expenditures were $20.0 million in 1999, $21.3 million in
1998 and $18.9 million in 1997.  The Company  expects that capital  expenditures
will be  approximately  $22.0 to $23.0 million in 2000. The primary purposes for
capital  expenditures  in 2000 will be for new product  tooling  and  production
equipment.  As in 1999, capital expenditures in 2000 are expected to be financed
by cash flow from operations.

The Company  decreased total debt by $9.1 million in 1999, after increasing debt
by $33.9  million  in 1998 and  decreasing  debt by $5.2  million  in 1997.  The
Company is required to repay $15.0 million of long-term  debt in 2000. In May of
1999, the Company's  Board of Directors  authorized the Company to repurchase up
to 1,000,000  shares of its common stock or  1,000,000 of its  warrants,  or any
combination  not to exceed  1,000,000  shares of common stock or warrants,  from
time to time,  depending on market conditions.  The Company  repurchased 707,500
common  shares for $12.8  million  in 1999,  1,345,000  common  shares for $26.8
million in 1998 and 210,000  warrants and 205,000 common shares for $8.6 million
in 1997. As of January 1, 2000,  the Company had over 800,000  shares  remaining
for  repurchase  under the Board of Directors  authorization  expiring in May of
2000.

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and other income and
expense  (EBITDA)  increased  25% to $70.2 million in 1999 from $56.3 million in
1998. EBITDA decreased 12% to $56.3 million in 1998 from $64.1 million in 1997.

Net  working  capital  (working  capital  less cash and the  current  portion of
long-term  debt) as a percent of sales was 20.2% at  year-end  1999  compared to
17.3% at  year-end  1998 and to 15.1% at  year-end  1997.  The  increase  in net
working  capital was due in part to the  increase in days sales  outstanding  in
accounts  receivable  to  approximately  68 days at year-end 1999 compared to 61
days at year-end 1998 and 55 days at year-end  1997.  The increase in days sales
outstanding  in 1999 was due  primarily  to  difficulties  experienced  with the
migration to new information systems as indicated above. Additionally, the trend
towards a higher  percentage of  international  sales with longer standard terms
than domestic sales has  contributed  to the increase in days sales  outstanding
over the last several years.

The ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 1.5 to 1 at year-end 1999
compared to 2.1 to 1 at year-end 1998 and 1.6 to 1 at year-end  1997.  The ratio
of long-term  debt to equity was 0.5 to 1 at year-end  1999 compared to 0.6 to 1
at year-end 1998 and 0.3 to 1 at year-end 1997.

MARKET RISK
The Company is exposed to market risk from  changes in interest  rates,  foreign
exchange rates and commodities.

The Company had  long-term  debt  outstanding  at January 1, 2000 in the form of
Senior  Notes and lines of credit at both  variable  and fixed  interest  rates.
Since  substantially  all of the debt has fixed  interest  rates,  the Company's
interest expense is not sensitive to changes in interest rate levels.

A portion  of the  Company's  operations  consists  of  manufacturing  and sales
activities in foreign  countries.  The Company has  manufacturing  facilities in
Mexico, England, Ireland,  Switzerland,  South Korea, China and the Philippines.
During  1999,  sales  exported  from the United  States or  manufactured  abroad
accounted  for 46.1% of total  sales.  Substantially  all  sales in  Europe  are
denominated in Dutch Guilders,  British Pounds  Sterling,  United States Dollars
and Euros and substantially all sales in the Asia-Pacific region are denominated
in United States Dollars and South Korean Won.

The Company's  identifiable  foreign exchange exposures result from the purchase
and sale of products from affiliates,  repayment of intercompany  trade and loan
amounts and translation of local currency  amounts in consolidation of financial
results.  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions
in the foreign countries in which it manufactures and distributes products could
affect the Company's sales and financial  results.  Other than utilizing netting
and  offsetting  intercompany  account  management  techniques  to reduce  known
exposures, the Company does not use derivative financial instruments to mitigate
its foreign currency risk at the present time.

The Company uses various  metals in the  production of its  products,  including
zinc, copper and silver.  The Company's  earnings are exposed to fluctuations in
the prices of these  commodities.  The Company does not currently use derivative
financial instruments to mitigate this commodity price risk.

YEAR 2000
As of July 3, 1999, the Company had completed 100% of the remediation  phase for
its mission critical  information  technology,  operating  equipment systems and
external interface exposures.

The  Company  has  not  experienced  any   difficulties   with  its  information
technology,  operating  equipment systems, or external interfaces related to the
year  2000  transition.  In  addition,  the  Company  has  not  experienced  any
difficulties with its significant suppliers.

The Company  believes that the foregoing  statements are in conformity  with the
Year 2000  Information  and Readiness  Disclosure  Act (Public Law 105-271,  112
Stat.  2386),  and all of the foregoing  statements  are designated as Year 2000
Readiness Disclosures thereunder. The protection of this act
does not apply to federal securities fraud.

OUTLOOK
Continued sales growth is expected in 2000,  fueled in part by sales of products
introduced in 1999 and 2000 and continued increases in electronic product sales.
A full  year of  sales  in 2000  of  suppression  products  resulting  from  the
acquisition of the Suppression  Products Group in October of 1999 is expected to
contribute to increases over 1999.

The Company will continue to identify and implement cost reduction opportunities
in 2000.  These efforts are expected to help offset  selling price pressure from
customers.  The development of new products,  global expansion, and reinvestment
continue to be the Company's  long-term growth strategy.  The Company intends to
continue  its  commitment  to funding  research and  development,  international
market  development,   and  investments  in  capital  equipment  and  operations
improvements.

"SAFE HARBOR"  STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE  SECURITIES  LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF
1995.
The statements under "Outlook," "Year 2000" and the other statements which
are not historical facts contained in this report are forward-looking statements
that involve risks and  uncertainties,  including,  but not limited to,  product
demand and market  acceptance  risks,  the effect of  economic  conditions,  the
impact of  competitive  products and  pricing,  product  development  and patent
protection,  commercialization and technological difficulties,  year 2000 issues
discussed above, capacity and supply constraints or difficulties,  exchange rate
fluctuations,  actual  purchases under  agreements,  the effect of the Company's
accounting  policies,  and other risks  which may be  detailed in the  Company's
Securities and Exchange Commission filings.



<PAGE>



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
The Board of Directors and Shareholders Littelfuse, Inc.

We  have  audited  the  consolidated   statements  of  financial   condition  of
Littelfuse,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  as of January 1, 2000, and January 2, 1999,
and the related  consolidated  statements of income,  shareholders'  equity, and
cash  flows for each of the three  years in the  period  ended  January 1, 2000.
These financial  statements are the responsibility of the Company's  management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based
on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial  statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial  statement
presentation.  We believe  that our audits  provide a  reasonable  basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated  financial position of Littelfuse,  Inc.
and subsidiaries as of January 1, 2000 and January 2, 1999, and the consolidated
results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended  January 1, 2000,  in  conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally accepted in the Unites States.




/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
February 11, 2000


<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                          Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                                  Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition


                                                                        January 1, 2000  January 2, 1999
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                                 (In Thousands)
Assets
Current assets:
<S>                                                                     <C>              <C>
   Cash and cash equivalents                                            $        1,888   $       27,961
   Accounts receivable, less allowances
     (1999 - $ 7,121; 1998 - $5,885)                                            59,583           41,382
   Inventories                                                                  48,916           36,209
   Deferred income taxes                                                         5,265            2,456
   Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                     3,485            3,090
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                       ------------------------------------
Total current assets                                                           119,137          111,098

Property, plant, and equipment:
   Land                                                                          8,370            6,753
   Buildings                                                                    28,636           25,682
   Equipment                                                                   157,296          131,136
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                               194,302          163,571
   Less:  Allowances for depreciation and amortization                         102,511           85,783
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                                91,791           77,788

Intangible assets, net of amortization:
   Reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable to
     identifiable assets                                                        33,943           37,814
   Patents and licenses                                                          4,356            6,522
   Distribution network                                                          5,918            6,412
   Trademarks                                                                    3,022            3,275
   Other                                                                        16,274            5,940
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                                63,513           59,963
Other assets                                                                     1,257            1,695
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                              $275,698         $250,544
                                                                       ====================================
</TABLE>



<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                          Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                            Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition (continued)


                                                                        January 1, 2000  January 2, 1999
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                                 (In Thousands)
Liabilities and shareholders' equity Current liabilities:
<S>                                                                      <C>             <C>
   Accounts payable                                                      $      19,075   $        9,926
   Accrued payroll                                                              14,167           12,555
   Accrued expenses                                                             14,596            7,929
   Accrued income taxes                                                          9,403            6,042
   Current portion of long-term debt                                            20,974           15,515
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                       ------------------------------------
Total current liabilities                                                       78,215           51,967

Long-term debt, less current portion                                            55,460           70,061
Deferred income taxes                                                            4,490            3,951
Other long-term liabilities                                                        501               41

Shareholders' equity:
   Preferred stock, par value $.01 per share:  1,000,000 shares
     authorized; no shares issued and outstanding                                    -                -
   Common stock, par value $.01 per share:  34,000,000 shares
     authorized; shares issued and outstanding, 1999 - 19,489,143;
     1998 - 20,023,520                                                             195              200
   Additional paid-in capital                                                   55,241           55,537
   Notes receivable - Common stock                                              (2,909)          (2,772)
   Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                         (5,642)          (3,726)
   Retained earnings                                                            90,147           75,285
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                               137,032          124,524
                                                                       ------------------------------------
                                                                              $275,698         $250,544
                                                                       ====================================

See accompanying notes.
</TABLE>


<PAGE>

<TABLE>


                                          Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                                         Consolidated Statements of Income


                                                      Year ended        Year ended            Year ended
                                                      January 1,        January 2,            January 3,
                                                         2000              1999                  1998
                                                   --------------------------------------------------------
                                                          (In Thousands, Except per Share Amounts)

<S>                                                       <C>             <C>                  <C>
Net sales                                                 $296,367        $269,540             $275,165
Cost of sales                                              179,112         169,341              164,034
                                                   --------------------------------------------------------
                                                   --------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                                               117,255         100,199              111,131

Selling, general and administrative expenses                56,098          50,936               52,226
Research and development expenses                            9,455           8,387                7,927
Amortization of intangibles                                  7,078           6,780                7,210
                                                   --------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                                            44,624          34,096               43,768

Interest expense                                             5,253           3,989                4,103
Other expense/(income), net                                 (1,306)             98                 (987)
                                                   --------------------------------------------------------
                                                   --------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes                                  40,677          30,009               40,652
Income taxes                                                15,457          10,124               15,310
                                                   ========================================================
Net income                                               $  25,220       $  19,885            $  25,342
                                                   ========================================================
                                                   ========================================================

Net income per share:
   Basic                                              $      1.29     $      0.97         $      1.28
   Diluted                                            $      1.16     $      0.86         $      1.07
                                                   ========================================================

Weighted-average shares and equivalent shares outstanding:
     Basic                                                  19,572          20,474               19,824
     Diluted                                                21,751          23,154               23,623
                                                   ========================================================

See accompanying notes.
</TABLE>


<PAGE>
<TABLE>


                                         Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                                  Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity

                                 Period from December 28, 1996 to January 1, 2000


                                                                              Notes        Accumulated
                                                             Additional   Receivable -        Other
                                                   Common      Paid-In    Common Stock    Comprehensive   Retained
                                                   Stock       Capital                    Income/(Loss)   Earnings      Total
                                                -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                  (In Thousands)

                                                -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                 <C> <C>                            <C>         <C>         <C>             <C>       <C>            <C>
Balance at December 28, 1996                           198         54,569      (1,470)         (870)     56,195         108,622
   Comprehensive income:
     Net income for the year                             -              -           -             -      25,342          25,342
     Foreign currency translation adjustment             -              -           -        (3,897)          -          (3,897)
                                                                                                                  -----------------
   Comprehensive income                                                                                                  21,445
   Stock options and warrants exercised                  3          2,567        (490)            -           -           2,080
   Purchase of 205,000 shares of common stock           (2)          (720)          -             -      (4,044)         (4,766)
   Redemption of 210,250 warrants                        -         (3,876)          -             -           -          (3,876)
                                                -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at January 3, 1998                             199         52,540      (1,960)       (4,767)     77,493         123,505
   Comprehensive income:
     Net income for the year                             -              -           -             -      19,885          19,885
     Foreign currency translation adjustment             -              -           -         1,041           -           1,041
                                                                                                                  -----------------
   Comprehensive income                                                                                                  20,926
   Stock options and warrants exercised                 15          7,693        (812)            -           -           6,896
   Purchase of 1,345,300 shares of common stock        (14)        (4,696)          -             -     (22,093)        (26,803)
                                                -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at January 2, 1999                             200        $55,537     $(2,772)      $(3,726)    $75,285        $124,524
   Comprehensive income:
     Net income for the year                             -              -           -             -      25,220          25,220
     Foreign currency translation adjustment             -              -           -        (1,916)          -          (1,916)
                                                                                                                  -----------------
   Comprehensive income                                                                                                  23,304
   Stock options and warrants exercised                  2          2,172        (137)            -           -           2,037
   Purchase of 707,500 shares of common stock           (7)        (2,468)           -            -     (10,358)        (12,833)
                                                ===================================================================================
Balance at January 1, 2000                             195        $55,241     $(2,909)      $(5,642)    $90,147        $137,032
                                                ===================================================================================
See accompanying notes
</TABLE>


<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                          Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                                       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

                                                                  Year ended    Year ended    Year ended
                                                                  January 1,    January 2,    January 3,
                                                                     2000          1999          1998
                                                                -------------------------------------------
                                                                              (In Thousands)
Operating activities
<S>                                                                 <C>           <C>           <C>
Net income                                                          $25,220       $19,885       $25,342
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
   operating activities:
     Depreciation                                                    18,461        15,426        13,184
     Amortization of intangibles                                      7,078         6,780         7,210
     Provision for bad debts                                            614           626           410
     Deferred income taxes                                           (3,922)         (896)          215
     Other                                                             (225)          326          (159)
     Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
       Accounts receivable                                          (14,323)       (3,218)       (3,331)
       Inventories                                                   (8,850)        3,610        (8,281)
       Accounts payable and accrued expenses                         14,915        (4,992)        1,950
       Prepaid expenses and other                                      (117)        1,757           217
                                                                -------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by operating activities                            38,851        39,304        36,757

Investing activities
Purchases of property, plant, and equipment, net                    (19,975)      (21,320)      (18,936)
Purchase of business, net of cash acquired                          (24,754)       (2,751)       (5,268)
Other                                                                   (56)         (249)         (357)
                                                                -------------------------------------------
Net cash used in investing activities                               (44,785)      (24,320)      (24,561)

Financing activities
Proceeds (payments) of long-term debt, net                           (9,132)       33,851        (5,192)
Proceeds from exercise of stock options and warrants                  1,645         6,308         1,055
Purchases of common stock and redemption of warrants                (12,833)      (26,803)       (8,642)
                                                                -------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                 (20,320)       13,356       (12,779)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash                                 181        (1,134)          (89)
                                                                -------------------------------------------
                                                                -------------------------------------------
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                    (26,073)       27,206          (672)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                       27,961           755         1,427
                                                                ---------------
                                                                ===========================================
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year                             $1,888       $27,961     $     755
                                                                ===========================================

See accompanying notes.
</TABLE>



<PAGE>



                                          Littelfuse, Inc. and Subsidiaries

                                    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                        January 1, 2000 and January 2, 1999


1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Other Information

Nature of Operations

Littelfuse,  Inc. and its subsidiaries  (the Company) design,  manufacture,  and
sell  fuses and other  circuit  protection  devices  for use in the  automotive,
electronic,  and general  industrial  markets  throughout the world. The Company
also manufactures and supplies relays, switches and circuit breakers.

Fiscal Year

The Company's fiscal years ended January 1, 2000 and January 2, 1999,  contained
52 weeks. The Company's fiscal year ended January 3, 1998, contained 53 weeks.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated  financial statements include the accounts of Littelfuse,  Inc.
and its  subsidiaries.  All significant  intercompany  accounts and transactions
have been eliminated.

Cash Equivalents

All highly  liquid  investments,  with a maturity  of three  months or less when
purchased, are considered to be cash equivalents.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The Company's financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents,  accounts
receivable,   and  long-term   debt.  The  carrying  values  of  such  financial
instruments approximate their estimated fair values.



<PAGE>


1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Other Information (continued)

Accounts Receivable

The Company performs credit  evaluations of customers'  financial  condition and
generally  does not require  collateral.  Credit  losses are provided for in the
financial   statements   and   consistently   have  been   within   management's
expectations.

Inventories

Inventories  are  stated at the lower of cost  (first in,  first out  method) or
market, which approximates current replacement cost.

Property, Plant, and Equipment

Land,  buildings,  and equipment are carried at cost.  Depreciation  is provided
under accelerated  methods using useful lives of 21 years for buildings,  7 to 9
years for  equipment,  and 7 years  for  furniture  and  fixtures.  Tooling  and
computer software are depreciated  using the  straight-line  method over 5 years
and 3 years, respectively.

Intangible Assets

Reorganization  value in excess of amounts allocable to identifiable  assets and
trademarks are amortized using the straight-line  method over 20 years.  Patents
are amortized using the straight-line  method over their estimated useful lives,
which average  approximately  10 years.  The  distribution  network is amortized
using an  accelerated  method over 20 years.  Licenses  are  amortized  using an
accelerated   method  over  their   estimated   useful   lives,   which  average
approximately 9 years.  Other intangible assets consist  principally of goodwill
that is being amortized over 10 to 20 years.  Accumulated  amortization of these
intangible  assets was $53.2  million  at  January 1, 2000 and $46.1  million at
January 2, 1999.  If there are  indicators  that an asset may be  impaired,  the
Company assesses  recoverability  from future operations using undiscounted cash
flows of the related  business as a measure.  Under this approach,  the carrying
value of the intangible  asset would be reduced to a fair value if the Company's
best  estimate  for  expected  undiscounted  future  cash  flows of the  related
business would be less than the carrying amount of the intangible asset over its
remaining amortization period.

Revenue Recognition

Sales  and  associated  costs  are  recognized  when  products  are  shipped  to
customers.

Advertising Costs

The  Company  expenses  advertising  costs as  incurred  which  amounted to $2.6
million in 1999, $2.6 million in 1998 and $2.8 million in 1997.


<PAGE>


1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Other Information (continued)

Foreign Currency Translation

The financial  statements of foreign entities have been translated in accordance
with  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS) No.  52,  "Foreign
Currency Translation," and, accordingly, unrealized foreign currency translation
adjustments are reflected as a component of shareholders' equity.

Stock-Based Compensation

Under the provisions of SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based  Compensation"
(SFAS 123),  the Company  accounts  for stock  option  grants to  employees  and
directors  in  accordance  with  Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion  No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." Generally,  the Company grants stock
options for a fixed number of shares with an exercise  price equal to the market
price of the underlying  stock at the date of grant and,  accordingly,  does not
recognize  compensation  expense. On certain occasions,  the Company has granted
stock options for a fixed number of shares with an exercise  price below that of
the  underlying  stock  on the date of the  grant  and  recognizes  compensation
expense accordingly. This compensation expense has not been material.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial  statements in conformity  with generally  accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the amounts reported in the financial  statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Comprehensive Income

In June 1997, the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board (FASB) issued SFAS No.
130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" (SFAS 130). SFAS 130 establishes standards
for  reporting  and display of  comprehensive  income and its  components in the
financial statements.  The Company adopted SFAS 130 for fiscal 1998. The Company
has chosen to disclose  comprehensive  income,  which encompasses net income and
foreign currency  translation  adjustments,  in the  consolidated  statements of
shareholders'  equity.  Prior  years have been  restated  to conform to SFAS 130
requirements.



<PAGE>


1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Other Information (continued)

Business Segment Disclosure

In June 1997,  the FASB issued SFAS No. 131,  "Disclosures  about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related  Information" (SFAS 131). SFAS 131 establishes  standards
for the way in  which  public  business  enterprises  report  information  about
operating segments in annual financial  statements and interim financial reports
issued to shareholders.  It also establishes  standards for related  disclosures
about products and services,  geographic areas, and major customers. The Company
adopted SFAS 131 for fiscal 1998. (See Note 8.)

Reclassifications

Certain  amounts in the 1997  financial  statements  have been  reclassified  to
conform with the 1999 and 1998 financial statement presentation.

2.  Acquisition of Business and Liquidation

On May 30,  1997,  the  Company  invested  $5.3  million in  exchange  for a 97%
interest in Samjoo Elec.  Ind. Co. Ltd., a Korean fuse  manufacturer,  now doing
business as Littelfuse  Triad.  This  acquisition has been accounted for through
the use of the purchase  method of  accounting;  accordingly,  the  accompanying
financial statements include the results of its operations since the acquisition
date.  Goodwill arising from this  acquisition of approximately  $2.9 million is
being  amortized over 20 years.  Pro forma results of operations,  assuming this
acquisition  had occurred as of December 29, 1996,  would not differ  materially
from reported results of operations.

During the year ended  January 2, 1999,  the Company made two  acquisitions  for
approximately $2.8 million. The acquisitions have been accounted for through the
use  of  the  purchase  method  of  accounting;  accordingly,  the  accompanying
financial  statements  include the results of operations  since the  acquisition
dates. Goodwill arising from these acquisitions of approximately $2.6 million is
being amortized over 10 years.  Pro forma results of operations,  assuming these
acquisitions had occurred as of December 29, 1996,  would not differ  materially
from reported results of operations.

In March 1998, the Company  consolidated  its Korean  operations into Littelfuse
Triad.   Pursuant  to  the   consolidation,   the  Company   incurred  costs  of
approximately $400,000 to liquidate Sam Hwa Littelfuse, Inc.

On October 19,  1999,  the Company  acquired  Harris  Corporation's  Suppression
Products  Group for $ 24.8  million  in cash.  The  Suppression  Products  Group
manufactures and markets a broad line of transient voltage  suppression  devices
that  provide  circuit  protection  for products in numerous  markets  including
consumer, computer, telecommunications, automotive, office equipment, industrial
and power transmission.  This acquisition has been accounted for through the use
of the purchase method of accounting;  accordingly,  the accompanying  financial
statements include the results of its operations since the acquisition date. The
purchase price has been allocated to the following net assets  acquired based on
fair value of such assets:  accounts  receivable of $7.4  million,  inventory of
$4.6 million,  property,  plant and equipment of $12.7 million,  other assets of
$0.4 million,  goodwill of $4.8 million and liabilities assumed of $5.1 million.
Purchase accounting liabilities recorded during 1999 consist of $0.5 million for
transaction  costs and $5.7 million for costs  associated with exiting a product
line and involuntary termination of employees in connection with the integration
of the business.  Goodwill arising from this acquisition of approximately $ 11.0
million is being  amortized  over 20 years.  Pro forma  results  of  operations,
assuming  that this  acquisition  had occurred as of January 4, 1998,  pro forma
sales of  Littelfuse,  Inc.  would have been  $328.3  million in 1999 and $311.9
million in 1998 and pro forma results of operations would not differ  materially
from reported results of operations.

3.  Inventories

The components of inventories  are as follows at January 1, 2000, and January 2,
1999 (in thousands):
<TABLE>


                                                        1999               1998
                                                 ---------------------------------------
                                                 ---------------------------------------

<S>                                                    <C>                 <C>
Raw materials                                          $  12,684           $  9,800
Work in process                                           14,854              5,338
Finished goods                                            21,378             21,071
                                                 ---------------------------------------
                                                 =======================================
                                                         $48,916           $36,209
                                                 =======================================
</TABLE>


4.  Long-Term Obligations

The carrying  amounts of long-term debt,  which  approximate  fair value, are as
follows at January 1, 2000, and January 2, 1999 (in thousands):

<TABLE>

<S>                                                        <C>              <C>
                                                           1999             1998
                                                    ------------------------------------
                                                    ------------------------------------

6.16% Senior Notes, maturing 2005                          $55,000           $60,000
6.31% Senior Notes, maturing 2000                            9,000            18,000
Revolving credit facility                                    6,000                 -
Other obligations                                            4,964             5,539
Capital lease obligations                                    1,470             2,037
                                                    ------------------------------------
                                                            76,434            85,576
Less:  Current maturities                                   20,974            15,515
                                                    ====================================
                                                           $55,460           $70,061
                                                    ====================================
</TABLE>

The Company has unsecured financing arrangements consisting of Senior Notes with
insurance  companies  and a credit  agreement  with banks that  provides a $55.0
million  revolving  credit  facility.  The Senior Notes require  minimum  annual
principal  payments.  No principal  payments are required for borrowings against
the  revolving  line of credit  until the line  matures on August 31,  2002.  At
January 1, 2000, the Company had available $49.0 million of borrowing capability
under the revolving credit facility at an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.375%.

The bank credit  agreement  provides for letters of credit of up to $8.0 million
as part of the  available  credit line.  At January 1, 2000 the Company had $1.8
million of outstanding letters of credit.

The Senior Notes and bank credit agreement  contain  covenants that, among other
matters, impose limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, future
mergers,  sales of assets,  payment of  dividends,  and changes in  control,  as
defined.  In  addition,  the Company is required  to satisfy  certain  financial
covenants and tests relating to, among other matters, interest coverage, working
capital, leverage and net worth.

Aggregate maturities of long-term obligations at January 1, 2000, are as follows
(in thousands):
<TABLE>


<S>                                      <C>
2000                                       $20,974
2001                                        14,475
2002                                        10,063
2003                                        10,063
2004 and thereafter                         20,859
                                    ==================
                                           $76,434
                                    ==================
</TABLE>


Interest paid on long-term debt  approximated $4.9 million in 1999, $3.8 million
in 1998 and $4.0 million in 1997.

5.  Benefit Plans

The Company has a defined-benefit pension plan covering substantially all of its
North American employees. The amount of the retirement benefit is based on years
of service and final average monthly pay. The plan also provides post-retirement
medical benefits to retirees and their spouses if the retiree has reached age 62
and has  provided  at least  ten  years of  service  prior to  retirement.  Such
benefits  generally  cease  once  the  retiree  attains  age 65.  The  Company's
contributions   are  made  in  amounts   sufficient  to  satisfy  ERISA  funding
requirements.

In 1998, the Company adopted SFAS No. 132, "Employers' Disclosure about Pensions
and Other  Postretirement  Benefits." The statement  standardizes the disclosure
requirements for pensions and other postretirement benefits.



<PAGE>

<TABLE>


                                                                     1999             1998
                                                              ------------------------------------
                                                                        (In Thousands)

Change in benefit obligation
<S>                                                                  <C>               <C>
   Benefit obligation at beginning of year                           $45,487           $41,649
     Service cost                                                      2,264             1,942
     Interest cost                                                     3,015             2,822
     Actuarial loss/(gain)                                            (4,760)            1,155
     Benefits paid                                                    (1,902)           (2,081)
                                                              ====================================
   Benefit obligation at end of year                                 $44,104           $45,487
                                                              ====================================

Change in plan assets at fair value
   Plan assets at beginning of year                                  $44,363           $39,703
     Actual return on plan assets                                      5,050             6,041
     Employer contributions                                                -               700
     Benefits paid                                                    (1,902)           (2,081)
                                                              ====================================
   Fair value of plan assets at end of year                          $47,511           $44,363
                                                              ====================================

   Funded status                                                     $ 3,407          $ (1,124)
     Unrecognized prior service cost                                     178               245
     Unrecognized net actuarial loss/(gain)                           (3,910)            2,301
                                                              ====================================
   Prepaid pension obligation                                        $  (325)         $  1,422
                                                              ====================================

Weighted-average assumptions
   Discount                                                         7.50%             6.75%
   Expected return on plan assets                                   9.00%             9.00%
   Salary growth rate                                               4.50%             4.50%

Components of net periodic benefit cost
   Service cost                                                     $  2,264          $  1,942
   Interest cost                                                       3,015             2,822
   Expected return on plan assets                                     (3,648)           (3,243)
   Amortization of prior service cost                                     66                65
   Recognized net actuarial loss                                          50               151
                                                              ====================================
Net periodic benefit cost                                           $  1,747          $  1,737
                                                              ====================================

</TABLE>

The Company also has a defined-benefit pension plan covering most of its Ireland
employees as a result of its  acquisition of the  Suppression  Products Group in
October, 1999. The amount of the retirement benefit is based on years of service
and final average monthly pay. The plan also provides death benefits to the plan
participants.  As of January 3, 1998 the Ireland  pension plan had assets in the
amount of $11.1  million and  liabilities  in the amount of $10.4  million.  The
Company is in the process of obtaining a more current actuarial valuation of the
Ireland plan.

The Company provides  additional  retirement benefits for certain key executives
through its unfunded  defined  contribution  Supplemental  Executive  Retirement
Plan. The charge to expense for this plan amounted to  $1,058,000,  $852,000 and
$853,000 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

The Company also maintains a 401(k) savings plan covering substantially all U.S.
employees.  The Company matches 50% of the employee's  annual  contributions for
the  first 4% of the  employee's  gross  wages.  Employees  vest in the  Company
contributions  after  two  years  of  service.  Company  matching  contributions
amounted to $632,000 in 1999, $547,000 in 1998 and $523,000 in 1997.

6.  Shareholders' Equity

Stock Split

On April 29, 1997, the Company's Board of Directors approved a two-for-one stock
split to stockholders  of record on May 20, 1997,  payable June 10, 1997, in the
form of a stock  dividend.  All prior  years'  number  of  shares  and per share
amounts have been restated to reflect the stock split.

Stock Purchase Warrants

Warrants to purchase  2,461,309  shares of common  stock at $4.18 per share were
outstanding  at January 1, 2000.  The warrants are  exercisable at the option of
the holder at any time prior to December 27,  2001,  and are not callable by the
Company.

Stock Options

The Company has stock option plans  authorizing  the granting of both  incentive
and  nonqualified  options and other stock rights of up to  2,800,000  shares of
common stock to employees and directors. The stock options vest over a five-year
period and are exercisable  over a ten- year period  commencing from the date of
vesting.

A summary of stock option information follows:


<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                  1999                        1998                        1997
                      -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    Weighted-Average            Weighted-Average            Weighted-Average
                                    Exercise Price              Exercise Price              Exercise Price

                         Options                     Options                     Options
                      -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding at
<S>                      <C>             <C>         <C>             <C>        <C>              <C>
  beginning of year      1,428,910       $16.91      1,361,310       $14.28     1,257,380        $10.95
Granted                    367,200        19.63        311,500        24.64       274,300         25.29
  Option price equals
  market price             352,200        20.25        311,500        24.64       274,300         25.29
  Option price less
  than market price         15,000         5.00            -             -             -             -
Exercised                 (144,870)        9.34       (153,480)        6.49      (156,170)         6.70
Forfeited                  (62,400)       21.98        (90,420)       15.31       (14,200)        15.69
                      =====================================================================================
Outstanding at end
  of year                1,588,840       $18.02      1,428,910       $16.91     1,361,310        $14.28
                      =====================================================================================
                      =====================================================================================

Exercisable at end of
  year                     765,960                     708,818                    671,126
Available for future
  grant                    216,440                     517,340                    138,420
Weighted-average
  value of options
  granted during the
  year                                   $12.04                      $11.81                      $11.16
  Option price equals
   market price                           11.79                       11.81                       11.16
  Option price less
   than market price                      17.75                          -                           -
</TABLE>

As of January 1, 2000, the Company had the following outstanding options:
<TABLE>

                                                    Weighted-            Weighted-
          Exercise                Options            Average              Average            Options
            Price               Outstanding      Exercise Price       Remaining Life       Exercisable
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S> <C>       <C>                   <C>              <C>                    <C>                <C>
    $3.688 to $5.00                 147,700          $  4.00                3.00               129,500
    $7.50 to $11.155                185,100            10.20                3.92               182,700
    $11.625 to $16.50               235,600            14.84                5.03               201,920
    $17.813 to $25.50               930,240            21.52                8.27               215,520
    $28.875 to $34.125               90,200            28.93                7.56                36,320
</TABLE>

Disclosure  of pro forma  information  regarding  net  income and net income per
share is  required  by SFAS 123 and has been  determined  as if the  Company had
accounted for its stock options  granted in 1999,  1998, and 1997 under the fair
value  method  using the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model.  The  following
assumptions were utilized in the valuation:


<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                                            1999             1998              1997
                                                     ------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                          <C>              <C>               <C>
Risk-free interest rate                                      6.52%            5.59%             6.63%
Expected dividend yield                                         0%               0%                0%
Expected stock price volatility                              41.0%            30.0%             19.5%
Expected life of options                                   8 years          8 years           8 years
</TABLE>


Had compensation cost for the Company's stock options granted in 1999, 1998, and
1997  been  determined  based on the  fair  value at the  dates  of  grant,  the
Company's net income and net income per share would have been reduced to the pro
forma amounts indicated:
<TABLE>

                                                            1999            1998         1997
                                                     ------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>             <C>           <C>
Pro forma net income (in thousands of dollars)           $24,341         $18,710       $24,621
Pro forma basic net income per share                     $  1.24         $  0.91       $  1.24
Pro forma diluted net income per share                   $  1.12         $  0.81       $  1.04
</TABLE>


The  pro  forma  effect  on  net  income  for  1999,   1998,  and  1997  is  not
representative  of the pro forma effect on net income in future years as the pro
forma disclosures  reflect only the fair value of stock options granted in those
years and do not reflect the fair value of outstanding  options granted prior to
1996.

Notes Receivable - Common Stock

In 1995, the Company  established the Executive Loan Program under which certain
management  employees  may  obtain  interest-free  loans  from  the  Company  to
facilitate their exercise of stock options and payment of the related income tax
liabilities.  Such loans,  limited to 90% of the exercise price plus related tax
liabilities,  have a five-year maturity, subject to acceleration for termination
of employment or death of the employee. Such loans are classified as a reduction
of shareholder's equity.

Preferred Stock

The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance from time to time of preferred
stock in one or more series with such designations, preferences, qualifications,
limitations, restrictions, and optional or other special rights as the Board may
fix by  resolution.  In connection  with the Rights Plan, the Board of Directors
has reserved, but not issued, 200,000 shares of preferred stock.

Rights Plan

In December 1995, the Company adopted a shareholder  rights plan providing for a
dividend  distribution  of one preferred  share purchase right for each share of
common stock  outstanding  on and after  December  15,  1995.  The rights can be
exercised  only if an individual  or group  acquires or announces a tender offer
for 15% or more of the Company's common stock and warrants.  If the rights first
become  exercisable as a result of an announced  tender offer,  each right would
entitle the holder to buy 1/200th of a share of a new series of preferred  stock
at an exercise price of $67.50. Once an individual or group acquires 15% or more
of the  Company's  common  stock,  each right held by such  individual  or group
becomes void and the remaining rights will then entitle the holder to purchase a
number of common shares having a market value of twice the exercise price of the
right.  If the  attempted  takeover  succeeds,  each right will then entitle the
holder to purchase a number of the  acquiring  Company's  common shares having a
market value of twice the exercise  price of the right.  After an  individual or
group  acquires 15% of the  Company's  common stock and before they acquire 50%,
the Company's Board of Directors may exchange the rights in whole or in part, at
an  exchange  ratio of one share of common  stock or 1/100th of a share of a new
series of preferred stock per right.  Before an individual or group acquires 15%
of the Company's common stock, or a majority of the Company's Board of Directors
are  removed  by  written  consent,  whichever  occurs  first,  the  rights  are
redeemable for $.01 per right at the option of the Company's Board of Directors.
The Company's Board of Directors is authorized to reduce the 15% threshold to no
less than 10%.  Each right will  expire on December  15,  2005,  unless  earlier
redeemed by the Company.


7.  Income Taxes
<TABLE>

Federal,  state,  and  foreign  income  tax  expense  (credit)  consists  of the
following (in thousands):

                                                   1999              1998             1997
                                            ------------------------------------------------------

Current:
<S>                                              <C>                <C>               <C>
   Federal                                       $  10,078          $  4,861          $  7,845
   State                                             1,467               920             1,859
   Foreign                                           6,180             5,239             5,391
                                            ------------------------------------------------------
                                            ------------------------------------------------------
                                                    17,725            11,020            15,095
Deferred:
   Federal                                          (1,875)             (809)                5
   Foreign                                            (393)              (87)              210
                                            ------------------------------------------------------
                                            ------------------------------------------------------
                                                    (2,268)             (896)              215
                                            ======================================================
                                                   $15,457           $10,124           $15,310
                                            ======================================================

</TABLE>


<PAGE>

<TABLE>

Domestic and foreign income before income taxes is as follows (in thousands):

                                                   1999              1998             1997
                                            ------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                <C>               <C>               <C>
Domestic                                           $22,846           $15,337           $26,494
Foreign                                             17,831            14,672            14,158
                                            ------------------------------------------------------
                                            ======================================================
                                                   $40,677           $30,009           $40,652
                                            ======================================================
</TABLE>

A reconciliation  between income taxes computed on income before income taxes at
the federal  statutory rate and the provision for income taxes is provided below
(in thousands):
<TABLE>

                                                   1999              1998             1997
                                            ------------------------------------------------------

<S>                              <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>
Tax expense at statutory rate of 35%               $14,237           $10,503           $14,228
State and local taxes, net of federal tax
   benefit                                             904               598             1,208
Foreign income taxes                                  (735)               68              (705)
Sam Hwa Littelfuse, Inc. liquidation                     -            (1,055)                -
Foreign losses for which no tax
   benefit is available                                 82                83               974
Other, net                                             969               (73)             (395)
                                            ------------------------------------------------------
                                            ======================================================
                                                   $15,457           $10,124           $15,310
                                            ======================================================
</TABLE>

Deferred income taxes are provided for the tax effects of temporary  differences
between the financial  reporting bases and the tax bases of the Company's assets
and liabilities. Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and
liabilities  at  January  1,  2000 and  January  2,  1999,  are as  follows  (in
thousands):
<TABLE>

                                                                     1999             1998
                                                              ------------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities
<S>                                                                   <C>               <C>
Tax over book depreciation and amortization                           $2,736            $4,289
Prepaid expenses                                                       1,250             1,265
Other                                                                    887               416
                                                              ------------------------------------
                                                              ------------------------------------
Total deferred tax liabilities                                         4,873             5,970

Deferred tax assets
Accrued expenses                                                       5,648             3,899
Foreign net operating loss carryforwards                                 258               174
Other                                                                      -               578
                                                              ------------------------------------
Gross deferred tax assets                                              5,906             4,651
Less:  Valuation allowance                                              (258)             (174)
                                                              ------------------------------------
Total deferred tax assets                                              5,648             4,477
                                                              ====================================
                                                              ====================================
Net deferred tax assets / (liabilities)                                 $775           ($1,493)
                                                              ====================================
</TABLE>

The  deferred  tax asset  valuation  allowance is related to deferred tax assets
from foreign net operating losses.  The net operating loss carryforwards have no
expiration  date.  Certain  foreign net  operating  loss  carryforwards  and the
related  valuation  allowance are no longer  available due to the liquidation of
Sam Hwa Littelfuse,  Inc. The Company received a one-time tax benefit associated
with the liquidation of approximately $1.1 million for the year ended January 2,
1999.  The Company paid income taxes of $12.1 million in 1999,  $11.5 million in
1998 and $14.0 million in 1997.

8.  Business Segment Information

The  Company  designs,   manufactures,  and  sells  circuit  protection  devices
throughout the world. The Company has three reportable geographic segments:  The
Americas,  Europe,  and  Asia-Pacific.  The circuit  protection  market in these
geographical segments is categorized into three major product areas: electronic,
automotive, and power fuses.

The Company  evaluates the performance of each  geographic  segment based on its
net income or loss. The Company also accounts for  intersegment  sales as if the
sales were to third parties.

The Company's  reportable  segments are the business  units where the revenue is
earned and expenses are incurred.  The Company has subsidiaries in The Americas,
Europe,  and  Asia-Pacific  where each region is measured based on its sales and
operating income or loss.

Information  concerning the operations in these geographic segments for the year
ended January 1, 2000, is as follows (in thousands):


<PAGE>
<TABLE>



                                                                            Combined                                   Consolidated
                                The Americas     Europe     Asia-Pacific      Total        Corporate     Reconciliation       Total
                              -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                           <C>    <C>            <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>               <C>
    Revenues                  1999   $172,122       $50,434       $73,811      $296,367     $        -   $         -       $296,367
                              1998    164,211        44,835        60,494       269,540              -             -        269,540

    Intersegment revenues     1999     32,250        18,884         3,883        55,017              -        (55,017)          -
                              1998     30,297        10,024           263        40,584              -        (40,584)          -

    Interest expense          1999      5,007            11           235         5,253              -              -         5,253
                              1998      3,724            17           248         3,989              -              -         3,989

    Depreciation and
    amortization              1999     10,831         1,969         3,700        16,500          9,039              -        25,539
                              1998      8,495         1,459         3,417        13,371          8,835              -        22,206

    Other income (loss)       1999        883           500           (77)        1,306              -              -         1,306
                              1998        506            68          (672)          (98)             -              -           (98)

    Income tax expense        1999      8,967         3,706         2,784        15,457              -              -        15,457
                              1998      4,412         3,896         1,816        10,124              -              -        10,124

    Net income (loss)         1999     21,007         8,156         5,101        34,264         (9,044)                      25,220
                              1998     18,970         7,692         2,058        28,720         (8,835)             -        19,885

    Identifiable assets       1999    191,997        36,228        39,112       267,337         66,076        (57,715)      275,698
                              1998    130,981        24,282        42,658       197,921         89,619        (36,996)      250,544

    Capital expenditures      1999     13,303         2,978         3,694        19,975              -              -        19,975
                              1998     15,269         2,344         3,707        21,320              -              -        21,320
</TABLE>


Intersegment   revenues  and   receivables   are   eliminated  to  reconcile  to
consolidated totals. Corporate identifiable assets consist primarily of cash and
intangible assets.

8.  Business Segment Information (continued)

The  Company's  revenues by product areas for the year ended January 1, 2000 and
January 2, 1999, are as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>

<S>                                                <C>               <C>
Revenues                                           1999              1998
                                            -------------------------------------


Electronic                                         $154,141          $133,086
Automotive                                          101,270            96,685
Power                                                40,956            39,769
                                            =====================================
Consolidated Total                                 $296,367          $269,540
                                            =====================================
</TABLE>

Revenues from no single customer of the Company amount to 10% or more.

9.  Lease Commitments

The Company  leases  certain  office and  warehouse  space  under  noncancelable
operating  leases,  as well as certain  machinery and equipment.  Rental expense
under these leases was approximately $0.9 million in 1999 and 1998, respectively
and  $1.3  million  in  1997.  Future  minimum  payments  for all  noncancelable
operating  leases with initial  terms of one year or more at January 1, 2000 are
as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>


<S>                  <C>                                                  <C>
                     2000                                                 $481
                     2001                                                  297
                     2002                                                  145
                     2003                                                   44
                     2004 and thereafter                                     -
                                                                   ------------------
                                                                          $967
                                                                   ==================
</TABLE>


10.  Earnings per Share

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
share:
<TABLE>

<S>                                                <C>               <C>              <C>
                                                   1999              1998             1997
                                            ------------------------------------------------------
                                                               (In Thousands)
Numerator:

   Net income                                       $25,220           $19,885           $25,342
                                            ======================================================

Denominator:
   Denominator for basic earnings per share
     - Weighted-average shares                       19,572            20,474            19,824
Effect of dilutive securities:
   Warrants                                           1,970             2,311             3,335
   Employee stock options                               209               369               464
                                            ======================================================
Denominator for diluted earnings per share
   - Adjusted weighted-average shares and
   assumed conversions                               21,751            23,154            23,623
                                            ======================================================
Basic earnings per share                         $   1.29          $   0.97          $   1.28
                                            ======================================================
Diluted earnings per share                       $   1.16          $   0.86          $   1.07
                                            ======================================================
</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
<TEXT>

Exhibit 23.1 Consent of Independent Auditors

We consent to the  incorporation  by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of Littelfuse,  Inc. of our report dated February 11, 2000, included in the 1999
Annual Report to Stockholders of Littelfuse, Inc.

Our audits also included the financial  statement  schedule of Littelfuse,  Inc.
listed in Item 14(a).  This  schedule  is the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In
our opinion,  with respect to which the date is February 11, 2000, the financial
statement  schedule  referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole,  presents fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(No. 33-55942,  33-64442,  33-95020, 333-03260 and 333-64285) on Form S-8 of our
report  dated  February 11, 2000,  with  respect to the  consolidated  financial
statements  incorporated  herein by  reference,  and our report  included in the
preceding paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedule included in
this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Littelfuse, Inc.




                                                            Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
March 20, 2000


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
