-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 JS6b2L1nzuvlnsjDUc8OHPOvRPF1b6sJc4yprnOEQElMyIPzNmzWTccAAyyAz85W
 g3RykhP0X+VrAKO/+pJelA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000895419-99-000009.txt : 19990813
<SEC-HEADER>0000895419-99-000009.hdr.sgml : 19990813
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000895419-99-000009
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19990627
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990812

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CREE RESEARCH INC /NC/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895419
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				561572719
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0628

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-21154
		FILM NUMBER:		99685220

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4600 SILICON DR
		CITY:			DURHAM
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			27703
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9193615709

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4600 SILICON DR
		STREET 2:		STE 176
		CITY:			DURHAM
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			27703
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT OF FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, DC 20549

                                  FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    For the Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 1999

                             CREE RESEARCH, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

     North Carolina               0-21154                    56-1572719
     (State or other       (Commission File No.)          (I.R.S. Employer
      jurisdiction                                     Identification Number)
    of incorporation)

               4600 Silicon Drive, Durham, North Carolina  27703
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                (919) 313-5300
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None
         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                       Common Stock, $0.0025 par value
                               (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The  aggregate  market  value of  common  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
registrant  as of August 2, 1999 was  approximately  $794,388,471  (based on the
closing sale price of $29.375 per share).

The number of shares of the  registrant's  Common  Stock,  $0.0025 par value per
share, outstanding as of August 2, 1999 was 29,258,464.

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the definitive  Proxy  Statement to be delivered to  shareholders in
connection  with the Annual Meeting of  Shareholders to be held November 2, 1999
are incorporated by reference into Part III.


<PAGE>
                              CREE RESEARCH, INC
                                  FORM 10-K

                   For the Fiscal Year Ended June 27, 1999

                                    INDEX

Part I                                                                   Page

Item  1.   Business........................................................3
Item  2.   Properties.....................................................19
Item  3.   Legal Proceedings..............................................19
Item  4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders............19

Part II

Item  5    Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
           Stockholder Matters............................................19
Item  6.   Selected Financial Data........................................20
Item  7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
           Condition and Results of Operations............................21
Item  8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data....................30
Item  9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
           Accounting and Financial Disclosures...........................50

Part III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.............50
Item 11.   Executive Compensation.........................................50
Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
           Management.....................................................50
Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.................50

Part IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
           on Form 8-K....................................................51

SIGNATURES ...............................................................53

                                      -2-
<PAGE>
                                    PART I

Item 1.  Business

INTRODUCTION
- ------------

Cree Research,  Inc., a North Carolina  corporation,  was established in 1987 to
commercialize silicon carbide, or SiC, semiconductor wafers and devices.  Today,
Cree is the world leader in developing and manufacturing semiconductor materials
and  electronic   devices  made  from  SiC  and  other  wide  bandgap   compound
semiconductor products. Using its proprietary compound semiconductor technology,
the Company produces light emitting  diodes,  or LEDs, for use in automotive and
liquid crystal display,  or LCD,  backlighting,  indicator lamps, full color LED
displays and other  lighting  applications.  The Company also  manufactures  SiC
crystals used in the production of unique gemstone  products and SiC wafers sold
for research directed to optoelectronics, microwave and power applications. Cree
has recently  introduced  the first of a family of radio  frequency,  or RF, and
microwave  devices for use in wireless  base  stations,  radar systems and other
commercial  and  military  applications.  These  products  are  expected  to  be
available on a sample basis during fiscal 2000. SiC-based compound semiconductor
devices offer significant  advantages over competing  products based on silicon,
gallium  arsenide,   or  GaAs,  and  other  materials  for  certain   electronic
applications.  The Company has new product  initiatives based on SiC,  including
additional RF and microwave devices,  larger and clearer crystals for moissanite
gemstones,  blue laser diodes for optical storage applications and power devices
for power conversion or switching uses.

BACKGROUND
- ----------

Most semiconductor  devices are fabricated on wafers made from silicon crystals.
Silicon evolved as the dominant  semiconductor material because it is relatively
easy to grow  into  large,  single  crystals  and is  suitable  for  fabricating
numerous electronic devices.  Alternative materials,  such as GaAs, have emerged
to enable the fabrication of new devices with  characteristics that could not be
obtained using silicon,  including certain RF,  microwave,  LED, laser and other
optoelectronic   devices.   However,   GaAs,   silicon  and  other  widely  used
semiconductor  materials have certain  physical and  electronic  characteristics
that limit their  usefulness  in many  applications.  For  example,  silicon and
GaAs-based  semiconductors  are  not  suitable  for  the  fabrication  of  short
wavelength  optoelectronic devices. In addition, the power handling capabilities
of  silicon  and  GaAs-based  microwave  transistors  can  limit  the  power and
performance of microwave systems used in many commercial and military  aerospace
applications.  Furthermore,  few silicon or GaAs devices can operate effectively
at temperatures  above 400 degrees F. This is a major limitation in applications
such as advanced  electronic systems for high power electric motors, jet engines
and satellites.

Substantial research and development efforts have been undertaken to explore the
properties  of other  potential  semiconductor  materials.  These  efforts  have
identified few candidate materials that are capable of being grown as low defect
single crystals (a requirement in the production of most  semiconductors)  which
also possess  physical and  electronic  properties  that  meaningfully  increase
device  performance  over products  fabricated from  semiconductor  materials in
general use. Of the few potential  candidates,  the properties of SiC make it an
excellent material for extending existing  semiconductor device technology where
high power, high temperature or short wavelengths are important for performance.

                                      -3-
<PAGE>
SiC OVERVIEW
- ------------

SiC has many physical  characteristics  that make the material very difficult to
produce.  For example, in a typical  semiconductor  manufacturing  process,  the
semiconductor  material is grown in single  crystal form and sliced into wafers.
The wafers are then  polished  and  chemically  etched,  coated with a thin film
containing controlled levels of impurities and fabricated into devices.  Because
SiC can form many  different  atomic  arrangements  and must be grown at process
temperatures  above  3,500  degrees  F, it is  difficult  to grow  large  single
crystals that are homogeneous in structure.  In addition,  the high temperatures
required  to grow SiC make the control of impurity  levels in SiC  crystals  and
thin films  difficult.  "Micropipes," or small diameter holes, may appear in the
crystals during crystal growth,  affecting the electrical integrity of the wafer
and  reducing the  usability of portions of the wafer for certain  applications.
Furthermore,  slicing and  polishing  SiC wafers is  hindered  by the  intrinsic
hardness of the material.  Similarly, its inherent chemical resistance makes SiC
a difficult material to etch.

Many of the same  physical  characteristics  that make SiC  difficult to produce
also make it an excellent material for certain semiconductor  applications.  The
following   characteristics   distinguish  SiC  from  conventional  silicon  and
GaAs-based semiconductor materials, resulting in significant advantages for many
applications in which the production hurdles can be overcome:

WIDE  ENERGY  BANDGAP.  Bandgap  is the  amount  of energy  required  to move an
electron from the valence band to the  conduction  band.  SiC is classified as a
"wide bandgap" semiconductor material,  meaning that more energy is required for
ionization.  Electronic  devices  made  from  this  material  can  operate  more
efficiently and at much higher  temperatures than devices made from other common
semiconductor materials.

HIGH BREAKDOWN  ELECTRIC FIELD. The "breakdown  electric field" is the amount of
voltage per unit distance  that a material can  withstand and still  effectively
operate as a  semiconductor  device.  SiC has a much higher  breakdown  electric
field than silicon or GaAs. This characteristic allows SiC devices to operate at
much higher  voltage  levels.  Additionally,  it allows SiC power  devices to be
significantly  smaller  while  carrying the same as or greater power levels than
comparable silicon and GaAs-based devices.

HIGH THERMAL  CONDUCTIVITY.  SiC is an excellent thermal  conductor  compared to
other  commercially  available  semiconductor  materials.  This feature  enables
SiC-based devices to operate at high power levels and still dissipate the excess
heat generated.

HIGH SATURATED  ELECTRON  DRIFT  VELOCITY.  SiC has a "saturated  electron drift
velocity"  higher than that of silicon or GaAs.  The  saturated  electron  drift
velocity is the maximum speed at which  electrons can travel through a material.
This  characteristic,  combined with a high breakdown electric field, allows the
fabrication of SiC-based  microwave  transistors  that operate at  significantly
higher power levels than current silicon and GaAs-based devices.

ROBUST  MATERIAL.  SiC has an  extremely  high  melting  point and is one of the
hardest  known  materials  in the  world.  SiC is also  extremely  resistant  to
chemical breakdown and can operate in hostile environments. As a result, SiC can
withstand  much higher  electrical  pulses and is much more  radiation-resistant
than silicon or GaAs.

                                      -4-
<PAGE>
GEMOLOGICAL  APPEAL. In the gemstone industry,  SiC is known as moissanite.  Its
high refractive index and dispersion give it "diamond-like"  sparkle or fire. In
addition,  its hardness allows superior faceting and wear resistance compared to
many gemstone materials.

THE CREE SOLUTION
- -----------------

Through  its  proprietary  technology  and  over 10  years  of  development  and
manufacturing  experience,  Cree has  succeeded in  overcoming  difficulties  in
processing SiC for commercial  use. The Company  introduced its first product in
October  1989 and  currently  is the  leading  manufacturer  of SiC  wafers  and
SiC-based  blue and green LED products in the world.  The Company  believes that
its proprietary  process techniques and the inherent attributes of SiC give Cree
significant  advantages  over  competing  products  for certain  electronic  and
gemological applications. These advantages include:

BLUE AND GREEN LIGHT EMISSION. Cree produces high efficiency blue and green LEDs
using gallium nitride, or GaN, a wide bandgap material, and other nitrides grown
on SiC substrates.  Most other  manufacturers of nitride-based LEDs use sapphire
substrates. The conductive properties of SiC enable Cree to fabricate a simpler,
smaller  LED chip as compared to  competing  LEDs grown on sapphire  substrates.
Cree has also demonstrated and is continuing development of GaN-based blue laser
diodes  grown on SiC.  The  principal  advantages  of SiC over  other  substrate
materials for blue laser diodes are its high electrical and thermal conductivity
and its ability to be cleaved,  providing an  excellent  surface for laser light
emission.

ENABLING  SUBSTRATE  PROPERTIES.  The inherent  attributes of SiC as a substrate
enable researchers to work on developing new optoelectronic, microwave and power
devices that offer  significant  advantages  over  competing  products and which
could not be produced as effectively on other substrate  materials.  The Company
manufactures  SiC wafers for both internal use and sale to external  development
programs to further new product  development.  The Company  continues to develop
larger substrates with lower defect densities, which should drive further device
development and strengthen SiC's economic advantages in certain applications.

GEMSTONE  MATERIAL  PROPERTIES.  Cree manufactures SiC crystals that are used to
produce moissanite gemstones.  The combination of SiC's optical properties (high
refractive  index and  dispersion)  and robust  material  properties  give these
gemstones both diamond-like sparkle or fire and hardness  characteristics.  Cree
continues  to  develop   larger  and  higher   quality  SiC  crystals  for  this
application.

HIGH POWER RF AND MICROWAVE OPERATIONS.  The Company has demonstrated SiC RF and
microwave  transistors  that can operate at much higher voltages than silicon or
GaAs because of SiC's high breakdown electric field,  allowing much higher power
operation  at  high  frequencies.   Higher  power  SiC  devices  can  allow  the
fabrication of SiC-based RF transmitters with less circuit complexity and higher
total output power. These same advantages exist for microwave devices made using
GaN on SiC substrates,  which can also operate at much higher  frequencies  than
SiC-only devices.  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company  introduced
its first RF power transistor  product, a SiC metal  semiconductor  field effect
transistor or MESFET device,  which is the first in a planned family of RF power
transistor  products  designed  for  wireless and  broadcast  applications.  The
Company is continuing development of additional RF and microwave devices for use
in  wireless   base   stations,   radar   systems  and  other   commercial   and
defense-related applications.

                                      -5-
<PAGE>
HIGH POWER,  HIGH VOLTAGE  OPERATION.  Cree is  developing  SiC power diodes and
switches that are able to operate at higher power  densities than currently used
semiconductor  materials because of the much higher breakdown  electric field of
SiC. In  addition,  Cree  believes  that its SiC power  devices  will be able to
operate with lower resistive  losses and lower switching  losses than those made
with silicon or GaAs.

PRODUCTS
- --------

All of Cree's  products are an outgrowth of its SiC  technology.  The  following
chart  illustrates the Company's  existing  products and user  applications  for
which these products are being used or marketed:

    PRODUCT                       USER APPLICATIONS

    Blue and green LEDs           o Backlighting such as automotive
                                    dashboards and LCDs, including wireless
                                    handsets
                                  o Large indoor full color displays, such as
                                    arena video screens
                                  o Large outdoor full color displays
                                  o White light products to replace miniature
                                    incandescent bulbs, such as those used in
                                    automobile map lights
                                  o Traffic signals
    SiC wafers and crystals       o Research and development for new
                                    semiconductor applications (wafers)
                                  o Gemstones (crystals)
    SiC RF transistors and        o Communication systems and other power
    wireless base station           applications
    amplifiers

The Company's  products are  manufactured in a six-part  process which includes:
SiC crystal growth, wafer slicing, polishing, epitaxial deposition,  fabrication
and testing. SiC crystals are grown using a proprietary high temperature process
designed to produce uniform crystals in a single crystalline form. Crystals used
for moissanite gemstones exit the manufacturing  process at this stage. Crystals
used for other products are then sliced into wafers. The wafers are polished and
then processed using the Company's proprietary epitaxial deposition  technology,
which essentially  consists of growing thin layers of SiC, GaN or other material
on the polished wafer,  depending on the nature of the device under  production.
SiC wafer products may leave the manufacturing process either after polishing or
epitaxy.  Following  epitaxy,  LED and microwave chips are fabricated in a clean
room environment.  The final steps include testing and packaging for shipment to
the customer. In manufacturing its products the Company depends substantially on
its  custom-manufactured  equipment and systems,  some of which is  manufactured
internally  and some of which  the  Company  acquires  from  third  parties  and
customizes itself.

BLUE AND GREEN LEDs

LEDs are solid-state chips used in miniature lamps in everyday applications such
as indicator lights on printers,  computers and other equipment.  LEDs generally
offer substantial  advantages over small  incandescent  bulbs,  including longer
life,  lower  maintenance  cost  and  energy  consumption,   and  smaller  space
requirements.  Groups  of LEDs  can  make up  single  or  multicolor  electronic
displays.  Prior to the  introduction  of Cree's blue LED product in 1989,  blue
LEDs could not be produced in volumes  necessary

                                      -6-
<PAGE>
for  commercialization.  Since then, Cree has developed  several  generations of
blue LED products, including a more robust conductive buffer chip that is easier
to build into lamps and has a lower unit  price  than  competing  products.  The
commercial  availability  of the blue  LED,  together  with red and  green,  has
enabled the development of full color LED lamps and video displays.

The Company  believes that LEDs made from SiC  substrates  provide the following
benefits  over those made with  competing  substrates:  1) an industry  standard
vertical chip structure  requiring a single wire bond that results in faster LED
assembly and reduced  cost,  2) a smaller  chip size  compatible  with  industry
trends toward package  miniaturization,  3) the industry's highest specification
for electrostatic discharge resistance that reduces the cost, engineering effort
and time to qualify  LEDs at  customer  production  sites and 4) a lower  priced
outdoor capable product.

Presently,  the Company's LED chips are used for backlighting purposes,  such as
automotive  dashboards  and  LCD  displays,   including  wireless  handsets.  In
addition, they are used in office equipment indicator lighting, full color video
display  technology,   such  as  arena  video  replay  boards,   moving  message
advertising and  informational  signs. The Company's  standard blue LED products
are primarily used in indoor applications.  In September 1998, the Company first
began  shipping  brighter  blue and green LEDs that offer a lower  cost,  higher
efficiency  LED  solution  for  existing  applications  that  require  a  higher
brightness.  These products,  which were  introduced  generally in May 1999, are
used for backlighting purposes, where low power consumption is critical, such as
LCD displays  for wireless  handset  applications,  and for traffic  signals and
outdoor full color displays.

In  November  1998,  Cree  announced  a new  product  line built on its blue LED
products for use in  solid-state  white light  applications.  By passing blue or
near  ultraviolet  LED  output  through  certain  conversion  materials  such as
phosphors or polymers,  blue light is converted into white light. Cree currently
sells blue LEDs to a customer  who  produces  the white  light  conversion  LED.
Commercial  products  incorporating  Cree's chips for white light conversion are
backlighting  applications for automobile dashboards and instrumentation and LCD
backlighting  for wireless  handsets.  Other  applications  for white light LEDs
include miniature  incandescent lighting,  such as map lights,  automobile trunk
lights and small flashlights.

The Company supplies blue and green LED chips to LED component manufacturers who
assemble  the  chip  into a  lamp  and  then  manufacture  solid-state  lighting
components  to supply  OEMs.  LED products  represented  51%, 48% and 53% of our
revenue  for the fiscal  years ended June 27,  1999,  June 28, 1998 and June 30,
1997, respectively.

MATERIALS PRODUCTS

Cree  manufactures  SiC wafers for sale to corporate,  government and university
programs  that use SiC for  developing  electronic  components.  SiC  wafers are
distributed  directly to these parties.  These customers utilize the material as
the basis for research in optoelectronic, microwave and high power devices. Each
order  may be sold as a bare  wafer or  customized  by adding  epitaxial  films,
depending upon the nature of the customer's  development  program.  For the past
several years, the Company has worked to improve the quality of its wafers while
increasing  their size.  During fiscal 1999,  the Company  achieved  significant
improvement  in wafer quality for its two-inch  sized wafers.  Cree is currently
developing a three-inch sized wafer product.

Single  crystalline  SiC  has  characteristics  that  are  similar  to  diamond,
including properties relating to hardness and brilliance.  Through a proprietary
process,  Cree  manufactures  SiC  crystals  in near  colorless

                                      -7-
<PAGE>
form for use in gemstones.  The Company  sells SiC crystals  directly to C3 Inc.
("C3"),  a company  which was  founded to  develop  gemstone  products  from SiC
crystals. C3 cuts and polishes the product to fabricate  diamond-like  gemstones
targeted at customers who desire  affordable  high quality  jewelry.  During the
first half of fiscal 1999, Cree  significantly  expanded crystal growth capacity
for C3 to meet increased  volume  requirements.  Cree has recently  agreed to an
additional  capacity  expansion that is planned through the first half of fiscal
2000. The potential for increasing demand depends on Cree's ability to meet C3's
requirements  for color,  clarity  and yield.  Consequently,  Cree has agreed to
focus development  efforts on improving its manufacturing  processes to increase
crystal size and volume,  as well as to develop  crystals  with higher  quality.
Future  demand also is dependent on C3's ability to cut,  facet and  effectively
market  its  gemstone  products.  SiC  produced  for  gemstone  applications  is
distributed  directly to C3. Wafer and other material products  represented 38%,
34% and 24% of our revenue for the fiscal  years ended June 27,  1999,  June 28,
1998 and June 30, 1997, respectively.

MICROWAVE TRANSISTORS

In June 1999, Cree announced the first of a family of SiC-based RF and microwave
transistor products designed to be a part of the power amplification  process. A
second phase of  transistor  products is scheduled  for release to production in
fiscal 2000.  The Company  expects that these products will be sold to a variety
of amplifier  producers,  including wireless base stations and digital broadcast
applications.  While distribution of samples will commence in early fiscal 2000,
the Company  believes  that these  products  will be sold in limited  quantities
during fiscal 2000, as design cycles for the target  applications  are generally
several months. There can be no assurance that such producers or other customers
will be able to  develop  applications  in the near  future  that  will  require
commercial production of the Company's RF products or that such products will be
successful in the market.

PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
- --------------------------

The Company believes that the inherent physical  characteristics  of SiC make it
an excellent  material for many new semiconductor  applications.  The Company is
dedicated to creating  new  applications  using SiC and has  products  currently
under  development in each of the areas  described  below.  The following  chart
illustrates   the  potential  user   applications   for  each  area  of  product
development:

    PRODUCT CATEGORY         POTENTIAL USER APPLICATIONS

    High power RF and        o Amplifier systems for wireless applications,
    microwave devices          such as personal communication systems, or
                               PCS base stations and digital broadcast
                             o Radar systems
    Power devices            o Industrial motor controls
                             o Electric vehicles
                             o Lighting ballasts
                             o Factory robotics
                             o Locomotive applications
                             o Solid-state power transmission
    Blue and ultraviolet     o High density optical storage, such as CDs and
    lasers                     DVDs
    High temperature devices o Automotive and aerospace electronics

                                      -8-
<PAGE>
HIGH POWER RF AND MICROWAVE DEVICES

The  Company is  currently  developing  SiC-based  high power  transistors  that
operate at radio and microwave  frequencies.  The Company believes these devices
will have  applications in wireless phone base stations,  high power solid-state
broadcast  systems  for  television  and radio and radar  search  and  detection
equipment.

In June  1999,  Cree  introduced  the  first  of a  family  of RF and  microwave
transistor products.  As discussed above, the Company continues to develop other
SiC-based transistor devices that are expected for prototype distribution during
fiscal 2000.  All of these  products  are  designed to amplify  power in several
applications.  These  devices  are  expected  to  be  used  for  frequency  band
applications  from 400  megahertz to 2.5  gigahertz,  including PCS base station
networks.  The Company  believes  that SiC  transistors  offer  advantages  over
current silicon and GaAs-based  devices for certain  applications due to greater
output power per transistor.  The higher output power available from SiC devices
is expected to allow wireless systems to use fewer  transistors per base station
resulting in less complex circuitry and lower cost.

Cree is also developing  GaN-based microwave  transistors on SiC substrates that
are targeted for higher  frequency  applications  (10 to 30  gigahertz).  During
fiscal 1999, the Company  reported the  demonstration  of GaN on SiC transistors
that  operated with an output power of 9.0 watts at 7.4  gigahertz.  The Company
also  reported a record  high power  density of 6.9 watts per  millimeter  at 10
gigahertz on smaller GaN devices. The Company believes this power density is the
highest publicly reported for a solid-state field-effect transistor operating in
this  frequency  range  and is  substantially  higher  than that  achieved  with
equivalent silicon or GaAs-based devices. The Company does not anticipate that a
commercial  device  capable of emitting power at this level will be available in
the near term.

POWER DEVICES

The Company is developing  prototype high power devices that have many potential
uses.   Such  devices  could  be  employed  in   applications   involving  power
conditioning  as well as  power  switching.  SiC-based  power  devices  have the
potential  to  handle   significantly   higher  power  densities  than  existing
silicon-based  devices.  In  addition,  SiC devices  are  expected to operate at
significantly   higher   temperatures  and  voltages  with  superior   switching
capabilities.  These devices are expected to yield substantial power savings due
to reductions  in energy  losses made possible by the devices' high  efficiency.
Potential  applications  include power drive  components for electric  vehicles,
lighting ballast  components,  industrial motor controls and power  conditioning
for high voltage power  transmission.  In early fiscal 1999, the Company entered
into a three-year project with Kansai Electric Power Company, one of the largest
power companies in the world,  for  development of SiC-based  devices for use in
power transmission networks.

BLUE AND ULTRAVIOLET LASER DIODES

The Company  continues to focus on the development of blue and ultraviolet laser
diodes. SiC's inherent  attributes,  including its natural cleavability and high
thermal conductivity, make it an excellent material for blue laser applications.
The storage  capacity of optical disk drives can be increased  significantly  by
utilizing a laser diode capable of emitting short wavelength  light. The Company
has demonstrated a blue laser diode,  fabricated from GaN and related  materials
on SiC  substrates,  which  has a  shorter  wavelength  than  that of the red or
infrared lasers used today. The Company believes that the shorter  wavelength of
blue light could potentially  result in storage capacity for optical disk drives
that is  significantly  greater

                                      -9-
<PAGE>
than the capacity  permitted by red light. This increased storage capacity could
lead to  advances  in CD-ROM  data  storage  and audio  and video  compact  disc
applications.  Currently,  the  Company  is the  only  U.S.-based  firm  to have
demonstrated  the  continuous  wave  operation  of a blue  laser  diode  at room
temperature on SiC; however, there is still substantial work needed to produce a
blue laser  suitable for  commercial  applications.  During  fiscal  1999,  Cree
entered into a one-year development  agreement with Microvision,  Inc. ("MVIS").
This  agreement  provides $2.6 million of funding for research in  edge-emitting
LEDs and laser diodes.  At MVIS' option,  this  agreement may be extended for an
additional year for $2.5 million.

HIGH TEMPERATURE DEVICES

In certain  applications for microwave and power devices,  the ability of SiC to
operate at higher  temperatures  than comparable  silicon devices can be a major
advantage. Thus, Cree is currently developing high temperature versions of these
devices.  These  devices  would be used  for  applications  in high  temperature
environments  or environments  with limited  cooling or heat sinking,  including
potential applications in the automotive,  energy and aerospace industries. Cree
is also  working on high  temperature  sensors,  as well as analog  and  digital
circuits  that could be used to amplify low level sensor  signals  directly in a
jet engine or other high ambient  temperature  environment.  Such devices  could
also find use in  applications  such as down hole drilling  equipment.  Although
Cree has developed prototype devices,  additional  development work is needed to
achieve commercial viability.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACT FUNDING
- ---------------------------

Cree derives a portion of its revenue from funding from research  contracts with
the U.S. government. For the fiscal years ended June 27, 1999, June 28, 1998 and
June 30, 1997, government funding represented 11%, 18% and 23% of total revenue,
respectively. These contracts typically cover work performed over several months
up to three years. While the U.S. government is interested in Cree's development
of SiC  materials  and  SiC-based  devices,  there can be no assurance  that the
Company will enter into any additional government  contracts,  or that they will
be  profitable  or  produce  contract  revenue.  In  addition,  there  can be no
assurance  that after any such contracts are entered into,  changing  government
regulations will not significantly  alter the benefits of such contracts.  These
contracts may be modified or terminated at the  convenience  of the  government.
The  contracts  generally  provide  that  Cree  may  elect  to  obtain  title to
inventions  made in the course of  research,  with the  government  retaining  a
nonexclusive license to practice such inventions for government purposes.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
- ------------------------

The Company  believes  that its ability to  maintain  its  position as a leading
supplier of SiC material and SiC-based  semiconductor  products,  will depend on
its ability to enhance existing products and to continue developing new products
incorporating  the  latest  improvements  in SiC  technology.  Accordingly,  the
Company  is  committed  to  investing  significant  resources  in  research  and
development.

The Company continually  conducts research aimed at improving the quality of its
crystals and wafers and enhancing its epitaxial film deposition  (wafer coating)
process.  Cree believes that these research and development efforts will benefit
all of the Company's products. The Company believes it can increase the diameter
of its wafers while lowering  manufacturing costs and permitting the development
of more complex devices.  Key  determinants  that will enable the manufacture of
more complex devices,  such as power  semiconductors,  are the substrate quality
and wafer size. Epitaxial thickness, lower defect density and the elimination of
variation are important  factors to yield  improvement,  marketability and lower

                                      -10-
<PAGE>
cost.  In moving to larger  wafer  sizes,  the  Company  is  focusing  on how to
stabilize the process to repeatedly grow larger  diameter  crystals with minimal
defects.  The two-inch  wafer size,  which Cree  introduced  in fiscal 1998,  is
considered  a  minimum   standard  for  certain   fabrication   and  development
facilities. Cree is expected to produce three-inch wafers in fiscal 2000 and has
begun development of larger wafer sizes.

During fiscal years 1999,  1998 and 1997,  the Company spent $9.4 million,  $8.6
million and $9.7  million,  respectively,  for direct  expenditures  relating to
research and development  activities.  Offsetting these  expenditures  were $6.6
million, $8.2 million and $8.7 million, respectively, of U.S. government funding
for direct and indirect research and development expenses. In addition,  certain
customers have also sponsored research  activities related to the development of
new products.  During  fiscal years 1999,  1998 and 1997,  customers  spent $4.5
million,  $3.5  million and  $66,000,  respectively,  for product  research  and
development activities.

SOURCES OF RAW MATERIALS
- ------------------------

The Company  depends on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials,
components  and equipment used in its SiC products and LEDs,  including  certain
key materials and equipment  used in its crystal  growth,  wafering,  polishing,
epitaxial deposition,  device fabrication and device test processes. The Company
generally  purchases  these limited source items pursuant to purchase orders and
has no guaranteed  supply  arrangements  with its  suppliers.  In addition,  the
availability  of these  materials,  components  and  equipment to the Company is
dependent  in part on the  Company's  ability  to  provide  its  suppliers  with
accurate forecasts of its future requirements. The Company endeavors to maintain
ongoing  communication  with its  suppliers to guard  against  interruptions  in
supply and, to date,  generally has been able to obtain  adequate  supplies in a
timely manner from its existing sources. However, any interruption in the supply
of these key materials, components or equipment could have a significant adverse
effect on the Company's operation.

PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS
- ------------------------------

The Company  since its  inception  has been a leader in the  development  of SiC
materials  and  devices  made using SiC.  It seeks to  protect  its  proprietary
technology  by applying  for  patents  where  appropriate  and in other cases by
preserving the technology and related know-how and information as trade secrets.
The  Company  has also from time to time  acquired,  through  license  grants or
assignments, rights to patents on inventions originally developed by others.

At August 2, 1999,  the Company  owned 46 issued  U.S.  patents.  These  patents
expire between 2008 and 2017.  Forty-two of the patents are owned by the Company
alone and the remainder, which resulted from research and development agreements
with other firms,  are owned jointly with the other parties to such  agreements.
The Company also owns corresponding  patents and patent  applications in certain
foreign countries it considers  significant or potentially  significant markets.
In addition,  the Company owns  pending  U.S.  and foreign  patent  applications
relating to inventions developed by the Company or acquired from third parties.

The Company  holds an exclusive  license from North  Carolina  State  University
("N.C.  State") to 10 U.S.  patents,  and to  corresponding  foreign patents and
applications,  that relate to SiC materials and device  technology,  including a
process to grow single  crystal  SiC.  The  license  was granted  pursuant to an
agreement  executed by the Company and N.C. State in 1987. This license gave the
Company a worldwide, fully paid, exclusive license to manufacture,  use and sell
products and  processes  covered by

                                      -11-
<PAGE>
the claims of patent  applications  filed by N.C. State relating to the licensed
inventions.  Ten U.S.  patents  were  subsequently  issued  with  respect to the
applications, with expiration dates between 2007 and 2009. Twelve of the foreign
applications  have been issued with expiration dates from 2006 to 2013. The U.S.
government  holds  a  non-exclusive  license  to  practice  the  inventions  for
government purposes.

The Company has also entered into other license  agreements with N.C. State, and
with the licensing agencies of other  universities,  under which the Company has
obtained rights to practice  inventions  claimed in various patent  applications
pending in the U.S. and other foreign countries.

For proprietary  technology  which is not patented or otherwise  published,  the
Company seeks to protect the technology and related  know-how and information as
trade   secrets   and  to  maintain  it  in   confidence   through   appropriate
non-disclosure  agreements  with employees and others to whom the information is
disclosed.  There  can  be no  assurance  that  these  agreements  will  provide
meaningful  protection against  unauthorized  disclosure or use of the Company's
confidential  information or that our  proprietary  technology and know-how will
not otherwise  become known or independently  discovered by others.  The Company
also relies upon other  intellectual  property  rights such as  copyright  where
appropriate.

Because of rapid technological  developments in the semiconductor  industry, the
patent position of any semiconductor materials or device manufacturer, including
that of the Company is subject to  uncertainties  and may involve  complex legal
and factual issues. Consequently, there can be no assurance that patents will be
issued on any of the  pending  applications  owned or licensed to the Company or
that claims allowed by any patents issued or licensed to the Company will not be
contested or invalidated. In the past, the U.S. patent that the Company licenses
from N.C. State  relating to growth of SiC was subject to a reissue  proceeding;
however,  that patent was  successfully  reissued.  Currently,  a  corresponding
European patent is being opposed, which means that the Company could lose patent
protection in Europe for this particular method.

There is likewise no assurance that patent rights owned or exclusively  licensed
to the Company will provide significant  commercial protection since issuance of
a patent does not prevent other companies from using alternative, non-infringing
technology.  Further,  the Company  earns a material  amount of its  revenues in
overseas markets.  While the Company holds and has applied for patent protection
for certain of its technologies in these markets, there can be no assurance that
it will obtain  protection in all  commercially  significant  foreign markets or
that the Company's intellectual property rights will provide adequate protection
in all such markets.

Frequent  claims and  litigation  involving  patents and  intellectual  property
rights are common in the semiconductor industry.  Litigation may be necessary in
the future to enforce the Company's  intellectual  property  rights or to defend
the  Company  against  claims  of  infringement,  and  such  litigation  can  be
protracted and costly and divert the attention of key personnel. There can be no
assurance  that third  parties  will not attempt to assert  infringement  claims
against the Company with respect to our current or future products.  The Company
has been notified from time to time of assertions that its products or processes
may be infringing  patents or other  intellectual  property rights of others. We
cannot predict the occurrence of future assertions of infringement or the extent
to which such  assertions  may require  the Company to seek a license  under the
rights asserted. Likewise, we cannot predict the occurrence of future assertions
that may prevent the Company from selling products or result in litigation.

                                      -12-
<PAGE>
SALES AND MARKETING
- -------------------

The  Company  actively   markets  its  products   through   targeted   mailings,
telemarketing,  select  advertising  and attendance at trade shows.  The Company
generally uses an executive sales approach, relying predominantly on the efforts
of senior management and a small direct sales staff for worldwide product sales.
The Company  believes  that this  approach is  preferable in view of its current
customer  base and product mix,  particularly  since the  production of lamp and
display  products  incorporating  LED chips is  concentrated  among a relatively
small number of manufacturers.  However,  the Company departs from this approach
for sales to certain  Asian  countries.  In Japan,  the Company  markets its LED
products  and  SiC  wafers  through  its   distributors   Sumitomo   Corporation
("Sumitomo")  and Shin-Etsu  Handotai Co. Ltd.  ("Shin-Etsu").  The Company also
uses sales  representatives  to market its LED products in Hong Kong,  China and
Korea. The Company sells SiC crystal materials for use in gemstone  applications
directly to C3 under an exclusive supply agreement.

CUSTOMERS
- ---------

During fiscal 1999, revenues from Siemens A.G., C3 and the Department of Defense
each accounted for more than 10% of total revenue.  The loss of Siemens,  C3, or
the Department of Defense's business would have a material adverse effect on the
results of  operations  if the Company were unable to replace the lost  revenue.
For the year ended June 28, 1998, revenue from Siemens, C3 and the Department of
Defense each  accounted for more than 10% of total  revenue.  For the year ended
June 30, 1997, Siemens and the Department of Defense revenues each accounted for
more than 10% of total  revenue.  For  financial  information  about foreign and
domestic sales, please see Note #2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies"
to the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements included in Item 8 of this
report.

BACKLOG
- -------

As of June 27,  1999,  the Company  had a firm  backlog of  approximately  $37.1
million  consisting of  approximately  $25.6 million of product orders and $11.5
million of executed  research  contracts with the U.S.  Government.  Some of the
funds for executed research contracts with the U.S. Government have been awarded
but may not be  appropriated.  This  compares to a firm  backlog  level of $12.6
million as of June 28, 1998,  which consisted of  approximately  $7.2 million of
product orders and  approximately  $5.4 million of executed  research  contracts
with the U.S.  Government.  We expect  the entire  backlog  to be filled  during
fiscal 2000, with the exception of approximately $5.6 million in U.S. government
funded contracts.

COMPETITION
- -----------

The  semiconductor  industry is intensely  competitive and is  characterized  by
rapid technological  change, price erosion and intense foreign competition.  The
Company believes that it currently  enjoys a favorable  position in the existing
markets  for  SiC-based  products  and  materials  primarily  as a result of its
proprietary  SiC-based  technology.   However,  the  Company  faces  actual  and
potential  competition from a number of established  domestic and  international
compound  semiconductor   companies.   Many  of  these  companies  have  greater
engineering, manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than the Company.

The Company's primary competition for the blue and green LED products comes from
companies  that market blue and green LEDs  fabricated  on sapphire  substrates.
These  competitors  market  blue and  green

                                      -13-
<PAGE>
LED products that are as bright or brighter than the Company's  high  brightness
blue and green LED devices. These companies have historically been successful in
the market for outdoor display applications because of the brightness demands of
outdoor  displays,  as well as the decreased  price  sensitivity  of the outdoor
display market. Cree believes its brighter blue and green LEDs will enable it to
compete  successfully  in this  market  because  they  can be  used in the  same
applications at a lower cost than competing products.

The Company believes that its approach to manufacturing blue and green LEDs from
SiC  substrates  offers  a more  cost-effective  design  and  process  than  its
competitors.  Cree's  smaller chip design,  which is  compatible  with  industry
trends for package  miniaturization,  enables the diode to use less material and
permits more devices to be fabricated on each wafer processed, lowering the cost
per unit. In addition,  the Company's  industry standard vertical chip structure
allows  manufacturers  to package the LED on the same  production  line as other
green, amber and red LEDs,  eliminating the need for special equipment necessary
for chips made from sapphire substrates.  Furthermore,  Cree's SiC-based devices
can  withstand a much  higher  level of  electrostatic  discharge  ("ESD")  than
existing   sapphire-based   products  and   therefore   are  more  suitable  for
applications  that  require  high  ESD  emission  ratings,  such  as  automotive
applications.

The Company believes that other firms  (including  certain of our customers) may
seek to enter the blue and green LED market in the future. For example,  Siemens
and Shin-Etsu have licensed certain of our LED technology,  which may facilitate
their  entrance  into our LED  markets.  We believe  that  Siemens is  currently
producing LEDs using Cree's  licensed  technology.  The market for SiC wafers is
also becoming  competitive,  as other firms have in recent years begun  offering
SiC wafer products or announced plans to do so.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
- ------------------------

The Company is subject to a variety of  governmental  regulations  pertaining to
chemical and waste  discharges and other aspects of our  manufacturing  process.
For example, we are responsible for the management of the hazardous materials we
use and dispose of hazardous waste resulting from our manufacturing process. The
proper handling and disposal of such hazardous material and waste requires us to
comply with certain government regulations. We believe we are in full compliance
with such  regulations,  but any  failure  to  comply,  whether  intentional  or
inadvertent, could have an adverse effect on our business.

EMPLOYEES
- ---------

As of June 27, 1999, the Company  employed 390 people,  all of which are located
in the United States. None of the Company's employees are represented by a labor
union or subject to  collective  bargaining  agreements.  The  Company  believes
relations with its employees are strong.

CERTAIN BUSINESS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
- ----------------------------------------

OUR  OPERATING  RESULTS MAY  FLUCTUATE  SIGNIFICANTLY  AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
MAINTAIN OUR EXISTING GROWTH RATE.

Although we have had significant revenue and earnings growth in recent quarters,
we  may  not be  able  to  sustain  these  growth  rates  and we may  experience
significant fluctuations in our revenue and earnings in the future.

                                      -14-
<PAGE>
Our operating results will depend on many factors, including the following:
    o our ability to  develop,  manufacture  and deliver  products in a timely
      and cost-effective manner;
    o whether we encounter  low levels of usable  product  produced  during each
      manufacturing step (our "yield");
    o our ability to expand our  production of SiC wafers and devices;
    o demand for our products or our customers' products;
    o competition; and
    o general industry and global economic conditions.

Our future  operating  results  could be  adversely  affected  by these or other
factors.  If our future  operating  results are below the  expectations of stock
market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline.

IF WE EXPERIENCE POOR PRODUCTION YIELDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY SUFFER.

Our SiC products are manufactured  using  technologies  that are highly complex.
Our customers  incorporate  our products into high volume  applications  such as
automotive  dashboards,   wireless  handsets,  full  color  video  displays  and
gemstones,  and they  insist that our  products  meet exact  specifications  for
quality, performance and reliability.

The  number  of  usable  crystals,  wafers  and  devices  that  result  from our
production  processes can  fluctuate as a result of many factors,  including but
not limited to the following:

    o impurities in the materials used;
    o contamination of the manufacturing environment;
    o equipment failure, power outages or variations in the manufacturing
      process;
    o losses  from  broken  wafers  or  other  human  error; and
    o defects in packaging.

Because many of our  manufacturing  costs are fixed,  if our yields decrease our
operating  results  would  be  adversely  affected.  For  this  reason,  we  are
constantly  trying to  improve  our  yields.  In the past,  we have  experienced
difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on new products, which has adversely
affected our operating results. We may experience similar problems in the future
and we cannot  predict  when they may occur or their  severity.  These  problems
could significantly affect our future operating results.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PRODUCE ADEQUATE QUANTITIES OF OUR HIGH BRIGHTNESS LEDs, OUR
OPERATING RESULTS MAY SUFFER.

We believe that higher volume  production of high brightness blue and green LEDs
will be important to our future  operating  results.  Achieving  greater volumes
requires improved production yields for these products. Successful production of
these products is subject to a number of risks, including the following:

    o our ability to  consistently  manufacture  these products in volumes large
      enough to cover our fixed costs and satisfy our  customers'  requirements;
      and
    o our ability to improve our yields and reduce the costs associated with the
      manufacture of these products.

Our inability to produce  adequate  quantities of our high  brightness  blue and
green products would have a material adverse effect on our business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

                                      -15-
<PAGE>
OUR OPERATING  RESULTS ARE  SUBSTANTIALLY  DEPENDENT ON THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF NEW
PRODUCTS BASED ON OUR CORE SIC TECHNOLOGY.

Our future  success will depend on our ability to develop new SiC  solutions for
existing  and new  markets.  We must  introduce  new  products  in a timely  and
cost-effective  manner and we must secure  production orders from our customers.
The  development  of new SiC products is a highly complex  process,  and we have
historically  experienced  delays in completing the development and introduction
of new products.  Products currently under development  include high power radio
frequency  and  microwave  devices,  power  devices,  blue laser diodes and high
temperature  devices.  The  successful  development  and  introduction  of these
products depends on a number of factors, including the following:

    o achievement of technology breakthroughs required to make commercially
      viable devices;
    o the accuracy of our predictions of market requirements and evolving
      standards;
    o acceptance of our new product  designs;  o the  availability  of qualified
      development personnel;
    o our timely completion of product designs and development;
    o our ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new products in
      sufficient quantities for commercial sales; and
    o acceptance of our customers' products by the market.

If any of these  or  other  factors  become  problematic,  we may not be able to
develop and introduce these new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner.

WE DEPEND ON A FEW LARGE CUSTOMERS.

Historically, a substantial portion of our revenue has come from large purchases
by a small number of customers.  We expect that trend to continue.  For example,
for fiscal 1999 our top five  customers  accounted for 81% of our total revenue.
Accordingly,  our future operating  results depend on the success of our largest
customers  and on our success in selling  large  quantities  of our  products to
them.  The  concentration  of our revenues with a few large  customers  makes us
particularly  dependent on factors  affecting those customers.  For example,  if
demand for their products  decreases,  they may stop purchasing our products and
our operating  results will suffer.  If we lose a large customer and fail to add
new customers to replace lost revenue, our operating results may not recover.

WE FACE  CHALLENGES  RELATING TO EXPANSION OF OUR PRODUCTION  AND  MANUFACTURING
FACILITY.

In order to increase  production at our new  facility,  we must add critical new
equipment,  move existing  equipment and complete the  construction and upfit of
buildings.  Expansion activities such as these are subject to a number of risks,
including unforeseen  environmental or engineering problems relating to existing
or new facilities or unavailability or late delivery of the advanced,  and often
customized,  equipment  used in the  production of our  products,  and delays in
bringing  production  equipment  on-line.  These and other  risks may affect the
construction  of new  facilities,  which could  adversely  affect our  business,
results of operations and financial condition.

THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE OPERATE ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE.

The market for our  products  is highly  competitive.  Although  we believe  our
SiC-based LEDs offer substantial advantages, competitors currently sell blue and
green LEDs made from sapphire wafers that

                                      -16-
<PAGE>
are brighter than the high brightness LEDs we currently produce. In addition, we
believe that other firms (including  certain of our customers) may seek to enter
the blue and green LED market in the future. For example,  Siemens and Shin-Etsu
license certain of our LED technology,  which may facilitate their entrance into
our LED markets. The market for SiC wafers is also becoming competitive as other
firms have in recent years begun offering SiC wafer products or announced  plans
to do so.

Also,  other firms may develop new or enhanced  products that are more effective
than those of the  Company.  These firms may develop  technology  that  produces
commercial products with characteristics similar to SiC-based products, but at a
lower cost. Many existing and potential  competitors have far greater financial,
marketing  and other  resources  than we do. We believe  that present and future
competitors  will  aggressively  pursue the  development  and sale of  competing
products.  We also expect significant  competition for products we are currently
developing, such as those for use in microwave communications.

We expect  competition  to  increase.  This  could  mean  lower  prices  for our
products,  reduced demand for our products and a corresponding  reduction in our
ability to recover  development,  engineering and  manufacturing  costs.  Any of
these  developments  could have an adverse  effect on our  business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

WE RELY ON A FEW KEY SUPPLIERS.

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components
and equipment used in  manufacturing  our SiC products,  including key materials
and  equipment  used in  critical  stages  of our  manufacturing  processes.  We
generally  purchase these limited source items with purchase orders, and we have
no guaranteed supply  arrangements with such suppliers.  If we were to lose such
key  suppliers,  our  manufacturing  efforts  could be  hampered  significantly.
Although we believe  our  relationship  with our  suppliers  is good,  we cannot
assure  you that we will  continue  to  maintain  good  relationships  with such
suppliers or that such suppliers will continue to exist.

IF  GOVERNMENT  AGENCIES OR OTHER  CUSTOMERS  DISCONTINUE  THEIR FUNDING FOR OUR
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF SIC TECHNOLOGY, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER.

In the past,  government  agencies and other customers have funded a significant
portion  of  our  research  and  development  activities.  If  this  support  is
discontinued  or reduced,  our ability to develop or enhance  products  could be
limited and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be
adversely affected.

LIMITATIONS ON THE PROTECTION OF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.

Our intellectual  property  position is based in part on patents owned by us and
patents  exclusively  licensed to us by N.C. State. The licensed patents give us
rights to our SiC crystal growth  process.  The issued U.S.  patents we own will
expire  between  2008 and 2017.  The  expiration  dates on the U.S.  patents  we
license  from N.C.  State run from 2007 to 2009.  We have  obtained  a number of
corresponding patents and patent applications in certain foreign  jurisdictions.
We  intend  to  continue  to  file  patent  applications  in the  future,  where
appropriate,  and to pursue  such  applications  with U.S.  and  foreign  patent
authorities, but we cannot be sure that any other patents will be issued on such
applications  or that our patents will not be contested.  In the past,  the U.S.
patent that the Company  licenses from N.C.  State relating to growth of SiC was
subject to a reissue proceeding; however, that patent was successfully reissued.
Currently,  a corresponding  European patent is being opposed,  which means that
the Company could lose

                                      -17-
<PAGE>
patent protection in Europe for this particular  method.  Also, because issuance
of a valid  patent  does not prevent  other  companies  from using  alternative,
non-infringing technology, we cannot be sure that any of our patents (or patents
issued  to  others  and  licensed  to us) will  provide  significant  commercial
protection.  In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets and
other non-patented  proprietary  information relating to our product development
and  manufacturing   activities.   We  try  to  protect  this  information  with
confidentiality  agreements  with our employees and other parties.  We cannot be
sure that these  agreements  will not be breached,  that we would have  adequate
remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets and proprietary  know-how will
not otherwise become known or independently discovered by others.

OUR OPERATIONS COULD INFRINGE UPON THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS.

Other  companies may hold or obtain patents on inventions or may otherwise claim
proprietary  rights to technology  necessary to our business.  We cannot predict
the extent to which we may be required to seek licenses or, if required, whether
such licenses  will be offered or offered on  acceptable  terms or that disputes
can be resolved  without  litigation.  Litigation  to determine  the validity of
infringement,  or claims alleged by third  parties,  could result in significant
expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management  personnel,
whether or not the litigation is ultimately determined in our favor.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS FROM INTERNATIONAL SALES.

Sales to customers located outside the U.S. accounted for about 62%, 74% and 79%
of our  revenue in fiscal  1999,  1998 and 1997,  respectively.  We expect  that
revenue from  international  sales will continue to be a significant part of our
total revenue.  International sales are subject to a variety of risks, including
risks arising from  currency  fluctuations,  the emergence of the Euro,  trading
restrictions, tariffs, trade barriers and taxes. Also, future U.S. Government or
military  export  restrictions  could limit or prohibit  sales to  customers  in
certain   countries   because  of  their  uses  in  military   or   surveillance
applications.  Because all of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars,
our products become less price competitive in countries with currencies that are
low or are declining in value against the U.S.  dollar.  Also, we cannot be sure
that our  international  customers will continue to place orders  denominated in
U.S. dollars.  If they do not, our reported revenue and earnings will be subject
to foreign exchange fluctuations.

WE FACE RISKS CONCERNING YEAR 2000 ISSUES.

We are evaluating all of our internal  computers,  computer  equipment and other
equipment  with  embedded  technology  against Year 2000  concerns.  Although we
believe our planning efforts are adequate to address our Year 2000 concerns,  it
is still possible that we could  experience  negative  consequences and material
cost  caused by  undetected  errors or  defects  in the  technology  used in our
internal  systems.  Our most  significant  Year 2000 risk is that the systems of
other  parties on which we rely,  specifically  our key  suppliers,  will not be
compliant on a timely basis.  Any  disruption in delivery of supplies to us that
is caused by a third  party's  failure to address  Year 2000 issues would affect
our  ability to  manufacture  our  products,  which  could  result in a material
adverse effect on our business,  operating results and financial  condition.  At
this time, we are unable to estimate the most likely  worst-case  effects of the
arrival of the Year 2000.

                                      -18-
<PAGE>
Item 2.  Properties

The Company  operates  its own  facilities  in Durham,  North  Carolina.  Direct
control  over  SiC  crystal  growth,  wafering,  epitaxial  deposition,   device
fabrication and test operations allows the Company to shorten its product design
and production  cycles and to protect its proprietary  technology and processes.
In November 1997, the Company  acquired its present  manufacturing  facility,  a
30-acre  industrial  site in Durham,  North  Carolina,  consisting  of a 139,000
square foot production  facility and 33,000 square feet of service and warehouse
buildings.  Cree is currently  constructing  an addition to the main  production
facility  containing  42,000 square feet. The Company also recently  purchased a
79-acre site close to its present facility for potential future expansion.

The Company  currently  leases space for some of its  manufacturing  facilities,
which occupy 21,900 square feet in Durham, North Carolina. This lease expires in
December 2001. In addition,  the Company also leases approximately 13,200 square
feet in a separate  building in Durham,  North Carolina,  that is expected to be
used for research and development  projects.  This lease expires in August 2000.
The Company also leases a small  administrative  office.  This lease  expires in
December 1999.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

The Company is not a party to any  material  litigation  and is not aware of any
pending or  threatened  litigation  that could  have a material  adverse  effect
either upon the Company's business, operating results or financial condition.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No  matters  were  submitted  to a vote of  security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1999.

                                   PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Common Stock Market  Information.  The  Company's  common stock is traded in the
NASDAQ  National  Market and is quoted under the symbol  "CREE".  The  following
table sets forth,  for the  quarters  indicated,  the high and low bid prices as
reported  by  NASDAQ.   Quotations  represent   interdealer  prices  without  an
adjustment for retail  markups,  markdowns or commissions  and may not represent
actual transactions.

                                FY 1999*                    FY 1998*
                                --------                    --------
                           High          Low            High         Low
                           ----          ---            ----         ---
    First Quarter        $ 8.750       $ 5.250        $10.250      $ 5.875
    Second Quarter       $23.500       $ 6.813        $14.750      $ 7.813
    Third Quarter        $26.625       $15.125         $9.813      $ 6.750
    Fourth Quarter       $36.688       $18.625         $8.813      $ 7.000

     *As adjusted for the two-for-one split effective on July 26, 1999.

                                      -19-
<PAGE>
Holders and Dividends.  There were  approximately 387 holders of record of the
Company's common stock as of August 2, 1999.

The  Company  has never paid cash  dividends  on its  Common  Stock and does not
anticipate  that  it  will  do  so in  the  foreseeable  future.  There  are  no
contractual restrictions in place that currently materially limit, or are likely
in the future to  materially  limit,  the Company  from paying  dividends on its
common stock, but applicable  state law may limit the payment of dividends.  The
present  policy of the Company is to retain  earnings,  if any, to provide funds
for the operation and expansion of its business.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The  consolidated  statement of operations  data set forth below with respect to
the  years  ended  June 27,  1999,  June 28,  1998  and June 30,  1997,  and the
consolidated  balance  sheet data at June 27, 1999 and June 28, 1998 are derived
from,  and are  qualified by reference  to, the audited  consolidated  financial
statements  included  elsewhere in this report and should be read in conjunction
with those financial statements and notes thereto. The consolidated statement of
operations data for the years ended June 30, 1996 and 1995 and the  consolidated
balance  sheet data at June 30,  1997,  1996 and 1995 are derived  from  audited
consolidated  financial  statements not included herein.  All share amounts have
been restated to reflect the Company's  two-for-one  stock split  effective July
26, 1999.

                      Selected Consolidated Financial Data
                      (In thousands, except per share data)

                                                    Years Ended
                                   --------------------------------------------
                                   June 27, June 28, June 30, June 30, June 30,
                                     1999     1998     1997     1996     1995
                                   -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
Statement of Operations Data:
Product revenue, net               $53,464  $34,891  $ 19,823 $ 9,689  $ 5,989
Contract revenue, net                6,586    7,640     6,535   3,945    3,011
License fee income                    --       --       2,615   1,423      --
                                   --------------------------------------------
Total revenue                       60,050   42,531    28,973  15,057    9,000

Income (loss) from continuing       12,702    6,275     3,542     243     (17)
operations

Net income per share, basic          $0.47    $0.24     $0.14   $0.01    $0.00
Net income per share, dilutive       $0.45    $0.23     $0.13   $0.01    $0.00

Weighted average shares             28,432   26,987    26,251  25,230   20,734
outstanding

                                                    Years Ended
                                   --------------------------------------------
                                   June 27, June 28, June 30, June 30, June 30,
                                     1999     1998     1997     1996     1995
                                   -------- -------- -------- -------- --------
Balance Sheet Data:
Working capital                    $60,222  $27,603  $21,013  $18,596  $ 9,971
Total assets                       144,217   72,724   50,137   43,796   20,924
Long-term obligations                4,650   10,804    1,638      --       --
Shareholders' equity              $130,022  $54,865  $45,125  $40,672  $19,504

                                      -20-
<PAGE>
Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

All statements,  trend analysis and other information contained in the following
discussion  relative to markets for our  products  and trends in revenue,  gross
margins, and anticipated expense levels, as well as other statements,  including
words  such as  "may,"  "will,"  "anticipate,"  "believe,"  "plan,"  "estimate,"
"expect," and "intend" and other similar expressions constitute  forward-looking
statements.  These  forward-looking  statements  are  subject  to  business  and
economic  risks and  uncertainties,  and our actual  results of  operations  may
differ  materially  from  those  contained  in the  forward-looking  statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences  include, but are not
limited to, those  discussed in "Certain  Business Risks and  Uncertainties"  in
Item 1 of this report,  as well as other risks and  uncertainties  referenced in
this report.

OVERVIEW
- --------

We are the world leaders in developing and manufacturing semiconductor materials
and electronic  devices made from SiC. We recognize  product revenue at the time
of  shipment  or in  accordance  with the  terms of the  relevant  contract.  We
recognize the largest portion of our revenue from the sale of blue and green LED
products. We offer LEDs at two brightness levels- high brightness blue and green
products and standard blue  products.  Our LED devices are utilized by end users
for automotive  backlighting,  LCD backlighting  (including  wireless handsets),
indicator  lamps,  miniature  white  lighting,  indoor sign and arena  displays,
outdoor  full  color  stadium  displays,  traffic  signals  and  other  lighting
applications. LED products represented 51% of our revenue in fiscal 1999 and 48%
in fiscal 1998.

We also derive  revenue from the sale of advanced  materials  made from SiC that
are used  primarily for research and  development.  We also sell SiC crystals to
C3, which  incorporates them in gemstone  applications.  During late fiscal 1998
and fiscal 1999, C3 purchased equipment from us, which has more than doubled the
capacity for the production of crystals for C3. Sales of advanced materials made
from SiC  represented  38% of our revenue in fiscal 1999 and  approximately  34%
during fiscal 1998.

The  balance  of our  revenue,  11% for fiscal  1999 and 18% for fiscal  1998 is
derived  from  government  contract  funding.   Under  various  programs,   U.S.
Government  entities  further the development of our technology by supplementing
our research and  development  efforts.  All  resulting  technology  remains our
property after the completion of the contract, subject to certain license rights
retained by the government. Contract revenue includes funding of direct research
and development costs and a portion of our general and  administrative  expenses
and other  operating  expenses for  contracts  under which we expect  funding to
exceed direct costs over the life of the contract.  For contracts under which we
anticipate  that direct costs will exceed  amounts to be funded over the life of
the contract (i.e., certain cost-share arrangements),  we report direct costs as
research and  development  expenses with related  reimbursements  recorded as an
offset to those expenses.

In  June  1999,  Cree  announced  the  first  of a  family  of RF and  microwave
transistor  products  made from SiC and  designed  for use in a variety of power
amplification processes. A second phase of transistor products is expected to be
available  in fiscal  2000.  The Company  expects  that these  products  will be
marketed to a variety of amplifier  producers,  including wireless base stations
and digital broadcast applications.  While distribution of samples will commence
in early  fiscal  2000,  during  fiscal  2000 the  Company  believes  that these
products  will be sold in  limited  quantities  as design  cycles for the target
applications  are  generally  several  months.  There can be no  assurance  that
customers  will be able to

                                      -21-
<PAGE>
develop applications in the near future that will require commercial  production
of the  Company's RF products or that such  products  will be  successful in the
market.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------

The  following  table shows our  statement  of  operations  data  expressed as a
percentage of total revenue for the periods indicated:

                                                      YEARS ENDED
                                          -----------------------------------
                                          June 27,      June 28,     June 30,
                                            1999          1998         1997
                                          --------      --------     --------
Revenue:
   Product revenue, net......               89.0%         82.0%        68.4%
   Contract revenue, net.....               11.0          18.0         22.6
   License fee income........                --            --           9.0
                                          --------      --------     --------
      Total revenue..........              100.0         100.0        100.0

Cost of Revenue:
   Product revenue, net......               44.9          51.1         46.2
   Contract revenue, net.....                8.2          14.7         19.7
                                          --------      --------     --------
      Total cost of revenue..               53.1          65.8         65.9
                                          --------      --------     --------
Gross margin.................               46.9          34.2         34.1

Operating expenses:
   Research and development..                7.4           4.2          6.3
   Sales, general and
    administrative...........               10.1           9.6         14.9
   Other expense.............                1.8           1.2          2.2
                                          --------      --------     --------
   Income from operations....               27.6          19.2         10.7
Interest income, net.........                1.8           1.7          2.1
                                          --------      --------     --------
   Income before income taxes               29.4          20.9         12.8
Income tax expense...........                8.2           6.1          0.6
                                          --------      --------     --------
   Net income................               21.2%         14.8%        12.2%
                                          ========      ========     ========


FISCAL YEARS ENDED JUNE 27, 1999 AND JUNE 28, 1998

Revenue

Revenue  grew 41% from $42.5  million in fiscal 1998 to $60.1  million in fiscal
1999. This increase was attributable to higher product  revenue,  which rose 53%
from $34.9 million in fiscal 1998 to $53.5 million in fiscal 1999. This increase
in product revenue was a result of the 62% rise in sales of our LED products and
58%  increase  in  materials  revenue in fiscal 1999  compared  to fiscal  1998,
respectively.

Growth in LED volume  resulted from the  introduction of the new high brightness
devices  and  improvements  in the product  design of and strong  demand for the
standard  brightness  product.  While we continue  to improve our  manufacturing
process  and  yields  on our  high  brightness  products,  we must  continue  to
significantly  increase our production output to meet the growing demands of our
customers.  We believe that our LED products are particularly  attractive to the
marketplace  due to our low prices and

                                      -22-
<PAGE>
industry standard vertical  structure.  During fiscal 1999, LED volume grew 160%
while average sales prices declined 38%.

We expect that in order to increase  market  demand for all of our LED products,
we must continue to lower average sales prices,  although pricing is anticipated
to be more stable in fiscal year 2000 than prior  years.  Historically,  we have
been  successful in matching lower sales prices with lower costs.  During fiscal
2000, we plan to focus on reducing  costs through higher  production  yields and
from greater  volumes as fixed costs are spread over a greater  number of units.
In  September  1996,  we entered into an agreement  with Siemens  where  Siemens
agreed to purchase our blue LED chips.  In December  1998,  this  agreement  was
amended to provide for additional  shipments of LED products  through  September
1999  and  was  assigned  to an  indirect  subsidiary  of  Siemens,  OSRAM  Opto
Semiconductors  GmbH & Co.  ("Osram"),  effective  as of January  1, 1999.  This
contract calls for declining  prices based on an increase in the number of units
shipped.  This pricing  structure is common with customers in the  semiconductor
industry  and  prior  agreements  with  Siemens.  Siemens  (including  its Osram
subsidiary)  accounted  for 37% of our revenue for fiscal 1999 and 40% in fiscal
1998. We are currently negotiating a new purchase agreement with Osram.

Our high  brightness  LED products,  which were  introduced  during fiscal 1999,
continue  to be  ramped  up to  high  volume  production  in  our  manufacturing
facility. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, revenue from high brightness
products made up more than 25% of total LED revenue. We believe sales from these
products will surpass our standard  brightness  product during fiscal year 2000;
however,  there can be no  assurance  that the product  volume will  increase or
yield improvements will be made to do so.

Revenue attributable to sales of SiC material was 58% higher in fiscal 1999 than
in the same period of fiscal 1998 due to a  significant  increase in sales to C3
for gemstone  applications  and strong demand for wafer products.  During fiscal
1998, C3 was in initial stages of operation; therefore, unit sales were limited.
Revenue  from sales of SiC wafers  were  higher in fiscal  1999 as  compared  to
fiscal 1998, due to quality  improvements in wafers, along with the availability
of the larger two-inch wafer during fiscal 1999.

During fiscal 1999, sales from our displays business declined 96% from the prior
year period as we have chosen to discontinue this product line. Contract revenue
received  from U.S.  Government  agencies  also  declined 14% during fiscal 1999
compared to fiscal 1998,  as a significant  contract that funded  optoelectronic
research was exhausted in early fiscal 1999. We anticipate  contract  revenue to
increase  slightly  in  fiscal  2000 as  additional  contract  awards  have been
received in late fiscal 1999.

Gross Profit

Gross  margin  climbed to 47% of revenue  during  fiscal 1999 as compared to 34%
during fiscal 1998.  This increase is  predominantly  attributable to design and
manufacturing  improvements  that  occurred  over the  past  year  resulting  in
significant  reductions in cost.  With the  introduction  of the new  conductive
buffer LED  technology  in the fourth  quarter of fiscal  1998,  we were able to
significantly  lower  costs  of  production  due to  fewer  manufacturing  steps
required with the new chip  structure and improved  yield.  During the first six
months of fiscal  1998,  we  introduced a smaller LED chip size and, in December
1997, we began to fabricate  devices on a larger two-inch wafer.  During much of
fiscal  1998,  we  were  still  in  the  process  of   establishing   these  new
manufacturing designs and had not achieved production  efficiency.  In addition,
the larger  two-inch  wafer had not been in full  production  for much of fiscal
1998; therefore, average die yields were significantly lower.

                                      -23-
<PAGE>
During fiscal 1999, margins realized on the high brightness  products were lower
than those  derived  from our standard  blue LED product,  as the yield from the
manufacturing process was less than our standard product.  Historically, we have
experienced lower margins with many new product introductions. While we continue
to make  improvements  to output and yield,  the high  brightness  products  may
continue  to  pressure  margins in the short term if we are not able to meet our
yield objectives.

Average wafer costs for SiC material  sales also declined 32% during fiscal 1999
over the comparative period due to more efficient processes and improved yield.

Research and Development

Research and development  expenses increased 150% in fiscal 1999 to $4.4 million
from  $1.8  million  in  fiscal  1998.  Much  of this  increase  was  caused  by
significantly  higher  costs  for  the  initial  development  of  the  new  high
brightness  LED  products.  In May of 1999,  the company  signed a $2.6  million
agreement  with MVIS for the  development of  edge-emitting  LEDs and blue laser
diodes. As development costs are incurred under this contract, funding from MVIS
is offset against these expenses. During fiscal 1999, approximately $0.5 million
of funding from MVIS was offset against research and development  expenses.  The
remaining  $2.1 million of funding is  anticipated to be applied to research and
development expenses in fiscal 2000. We expect that including the offset of MVIS
funds in fiscal 2000,  research and development  expenses will remain relatively
stable compared to fiscal 1999 amounts.

Sales, General and Administrative

Sales, general and administrative  expenses increased 47% in fiscal 1999 to $6.1
million from $4.1 million in the fiscal 1998 due primarily to the general growth
in our business.  In addition, in fiscal 1998 two insurance events were recorded
that  reduced  expenses  by $0.4  million.  As a result  of the  dismissal  of a
securities  class  action  lawsuit in November  1997,  we were  reimbursed  $0.2
million  for  costs  incurred  in  connection  with the  lawsuit.  Most of these
expenses were  recorded in fiscal 1997. In addition,  we received a $0.2 million
reimbursement  of medical  expenses due to a negotiated  cost cap in a partially
self-funded insured health plan. Also as a result of our increased profitability
during fiscal 1999 over fiscal 1998, the profit sharing accrual (which was based
on 5% of operating  income) has grown $0.4  million.  We  anticipate  that total
sales,  general and  administrative  costs will increase in connection  with the
growth of our business; however, we believe that as a percentage of revenue they
will remain constant or possibly decline.

Other Expense

Other  expense  increased  107% to $1.1  million  during  fiscal  1999 from $0.5
million in fiscal 1998. During fiscal 1999, we realized impairments to leasehold
costs as a result of  management's  decision to move  equipment  from our leased
facility to our new manufacturing  site. We also wrote-off other assets that had
no future value to the Company.  These write-offs were slightly offset by income
recognized under our equipment  build-out  agreement with C3. In fiscal 1998 and
1999,  we  sold  equipment  manufactured  by us to C3 at cost  plus an  overhead
allocation  equivalent  to that  recognized  on our  government  contracts.  The
reimbursement by C3 of actual manufacturing costs was recorded as a reduction in
fixed assets,  while the overhead  allocation portion of the funds offset "Other
expense."

                                      -24-
<PAGE>
Interest Income, net

Interest income,  net has increased 45% to $1.1 million in fiscal 1999 from $0.7
million in fiscal 1998 due to higher  average cash balances  being  available in
fiscal 1999 as a result of a public stock offering completed in February 1999. A
portion of the  proceeds  received  from the offering was used to repay all debt
that was outstanding;  therefore during much of the third quarter and all of the
fourth  quarter of fiscal  1999,  there was no  interest  expense  incurred.  In
November 1997, we obtained a term loan from  NationsBank to fund the acquisition
and construction of our manufacturing  facility in Durham, North Carolina.  Most
of that interest was capitalized during fiscal 1998.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense for fiscal 1999 was $4.9 million  compared to $2.6 million in
fiscal 1998. This increase resulted from increased  profitability  during fiscal
1999 over  fiscal  1998.  Our  effective  tax rate  during  fiscal  1999 was 28%
compared to 29% in fiscal 1998.

FISCAL YEARS ENDED JUNE 28, 1998 AND JUNE 30, 1997

Revenue

Revenue  increased  47% from $29.0  million in fiscal  1997 to $42.5  million in
fiscal  1998. A  significant  portion of the rise was  attributable  to the 132%
increase in LED volume sold  pursuant to an amendment to the purchase  agreement
with Siemens. This agreement and two subsequent amendments provided $6.8 million
in additional revenue in fiscal 1998 over fiscal 1997. This significant increase
in volume sold was offset by a 32%  decline in our  average  sales price per LED
sold.

Wafer and other materials revenue increased 110% in fiscal 1998 over fiscal 1997
due to a 29% increase in wafer volume  associated  with greater  interest in the
worldwide  research community for SiC-based  products,  as well as revenues from
C3. C3 activity grew as a result of the execution in July 1997 of the new supply
agreement  and  development  agreement.   Revenues  for  the  displays  business
increased  37% in fiscal 1998 over fiscal 1997 due to increased  interest  among
customers for indoor video displays.

Contract revenue increased 17% to $7.6 million during fiscal 1998 as compared to
fiscal  1997,  as a result  of a change  in the mix of  funding  from  available
contracts. Contracts funded for fiscal 1997 included a higher amount of proceeds
recognized under two cost-share arrangements. For these arrangements,  funds are
recorded  as a reduction  in research  and  development  expense  rather than as
contract  revenue.  As funds  associated  with these two programs were exhausted
during fiscal 1998,  we shifted our  resources to programs  under a cost-plus or
catalog price  arrangement,  in which  funding is recorded as contract  revenue.
Therefore contract revenue was higher in fiscal 1998 than 1997.

Included in revenue for fiscal 1997 is a one-time  license fee of $2.6  million.
This  license  fee was earned  pursuant  to a License  and  Technology  Transfer
Agreement  entered  into in  September  1996 with  Shin-Etsu.  Pursuant  to this
agreement,  we granted  Shin-Etsu a license to use certain  epitaxial and device
fabrication  process technology for the manufacture of our blue LED product.  We
did not record any license fee revenue during fiscal 1998.

                                      -25-
<PAGE>
Gross Profit

Our gross profit increased 47% to $14.6 million in fiscal 1998 over fiscal 1997.
Our gross  margin was 34% for both fiscal 1998 and fiscal  1997.  License  fees,
which have no corresponding cost, were included in fiscal 1997 results.  Without
license fee revenue, gross profit would have been $7.3 million or 28% of revenue
for fiscal 1997.  The overall  increase in gross profit in fiscal 1998  resulted
from higher revenue and lower LED and material costs per unit. The lower LED and
wafer costs were  recognized due to higher  throughput,  which more  effectively
utilized capacity and yield  efficiencies.  The greater throughput enabled us to
spread fixed cost investments over a larger volume of product.  Greater yield in
LED applications resulted from a combination of a new smaller die size and a new
larger  two-inch  diameter  wafer and in the fourth  quarter of fiscal 1998, the
introduction of the conductive buffer technology.  Yield was also higher for LED
and materials due to plant  processing  efficiency and a higher quality of wafer
materials used in these products.

The cost of contract  revenue has increased in fiscal 1998 over fiscal 1997, due
to the change in the mix of funding from available  contracts.  Costs for fiscal
1997  included  a higher  amount of  expenses  recognized  under two  cost-share
arrangements.  For  these  arrangements,  costs are  recorded  as  research  and
development  expenses rather than cost of contract  revenue.  When funding under
these two  contracts  was  completed in the second  quarter of fiscal 1998,  all
resources were shifted to cost-plus and catalog priced contracts, where expenses
are recorded as a cost of contract revenue.

Research and Development

Research and development costs decreased by 3% to approximately  $1.8 million in
fiscal 1998 from approximately $1.8 million in fiscal 1997 due to a reduction in
work  performed  under  two  cost-share  contracts  to  further  the blue  laser
research.  These cost-share  contracts concluded during the first half of fiscal
1998.  Additionally,  research and development  costs for fiscal 1997 included a
one-time  write-off  of $0.1  million for the  closure of our  Eastern  European
Division, located in St. Petersburg, Russia.

Sales, General and Administrative Expenses

Sales,  general and  administrative  expenses  decreased  4% to $4.1 million for
fiscal 1998 from $4.3  million in fiscal 1997 due to the receipt of two one-time
insurance  payments.  As a  result  of  the  dismissal  in  November  1997  of a
securities  class action lawsuit filed in October 1996, we were  reimbursed $0.2
million from our insurance carrier for costs incurred in defense of the suit. In
addition,  as a result of a  negotiated  cost cap,  we  received a $0.2  million
reimbursement   of  medical  expenses  that  were  incurred  under  a  partially
self-funded  insured  health plan. As a percentage of revenue,  these costs have
decreased to 10% in fiscal 1998 from 15% in fiscal 1997.

Other Expense

In fiscal 1998, other expenses included a net loss recorded on the write-down of
leasehold  improvements,  the  disposal  of  certain  other  fixed  assets and a
write-off of $66,000 for the  remaining  value of goodwill  associated  with the
acquisition of the Real Color Displays subsidiary.  In addition, we entered into
an  agreement  with  C3 to sell  equipment  manufactured  by us at  cost  plus a
reasonable overhead  allocation.  The overhead allocation was recorded as "Other
income;"  however,  the  amount  was more than  offset by  leasehold  write-offs
associated  with the move to our new facility and other asset  disposals.  Other
expense for fiscal  1997 was higher  than that  recorded in fiscal 1998 as large
fixed  asset  write-downs

                                      -26-
<PAGE>
were recorded as the result of a physical  plant  inventory.  These  write-downs
were greater than those recorded in fiscal 1998.

Interest Income, net

Interest  income,  net increased by $0.1 million in fiscal 1998 over fiscal 1997
due to higher  investable cash balances  available in fiscal 1998. Cash balances
were higher in fiscal 1998 as we  generated  approximately  $12.1  million  from
operations compared to approximately $6.1 million in fiscal 1997.

Income Tax Expense

Our  effective  income  tax rate  increased  to 29% for  fiscal  1998  from a 5%
effective  rate during fiscal 1997. The lower rate for fiscal 1997 resulted from
the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We have funded our operations to date through sales of equity,  bank  borrowings
and revenue from product and contract  sales. On February 17, 1999, we completed
our  public  stock  offering  and raised  approximately  $45.3  million,  net of
offering  expenses and the  repayment of long-term  debt.  There were no selling
shareholders. The Company expects that the majority of these funds will continue
to be used to expand  facilities and equipment  capacity.  The remainder will be
used for general  corporate  purposes,  including  working capital and potential
acquisitions of or investments in complementary businesses. The Company may also
issue  additional  shares of common stock for the  acquisition of  complementary
businesses or other significant  assets.  Although the Company from time to time
evaluates   potential   acquisitions   of  and  investments  in  businesses  and
anticipates  continuing  to make such  evaluations,  the  Company has no present
commitments  or  agreements  with respect to the  acquisition  or  investment in
another  business.  As of June 27, 1999, we had working capital of approximately
$60.2  million,  including  $48.7  million  in cash  and  cash  equivalents  and
marketable securities.

Operating  activities  generated  $19.9 million in cash during fiscal 1999. This
was  attributable  primarily  to net  income of $12.7  million,  other  non-cash
expenses of $7.2 million,  $3.5 million in deferred income tax benefits and $2.7
million for tax  benefits  associated  with stock  options.  These  amounts were
partly offset by an increase of $6.2 million in accounts  receivable  and a $1.4
million rise in inventory.

Most of the $45.3  million of cash used in investing  activities  in fiscal 1999
was  related  to  expenditures  associated  with  the  construction  of our  new
manufacturing  facility in Durham,  North  Carolina and increased  manufacturing
capacity in the crystal growth,  epitaxial,  clean room and pack and test areas.
The Company also  invested  $4.5 million to acquire an  investment in the common
stock of MVIS.

The $50.1  million of cash  provided  by  financing  activities  in fiscal  1999
related  primarily to the receipt of $61.4 million  related to proceeds from the
public stock  offering and the exercise of stock warrants and stock options from
the Company's  employee stock option plan. This  significant  inflow of cash was
partly offset by the $10.0  million  payoff of long term debt and a $3.2 million
repurchase of common stock.  This stock was  repurchased  at an average price of
$6.84 per share.  The stock warrants  exercised  were  distributed in connection
with our September 1995 private  placement and have an exercise price of $13.62.
As of June 27, 1999 warrants  remained  outstanding to purchase  258,000 shares;
these warrants will expire in September 2000.

                                      -27-
<PAGE>
We are currently engaged in construction  activities  related to a new packaging
area and the expansion of our crystal growth department.  These additions, which
are expected to be completed by calendar year end, will allow us to  consolidate
all  LED  and  wafer   manufacturing   facilities  to  one  site  with  improved
manufacturing  capabilities.  In order to grow  existing  products  and  provide
expanded  facilities for our new microwave  product line, we anticipate a second
phase of expansion to facilities and  infrastructure to begin in fiscal 2000. We
anticipate  total costs for these  expenses  to be between $15 and $20  million.
Estimates for equipment  costs related to this  expansion also total between $15
and $20  million.  We  plan  to fund  these  capital  projects  with  internally
generated cash plus cash on hand.

IMPACT OF THE YEAR 2000

State of Readiness

We have evaluated all of our internal  software,  embedded  systems and products
against Year 2000 concerns and believe that our products and businesses will not
be  substantially  affected by the advent of the year 2000. We have  completed a
Year 2000  compliance  plan that  included four phases:  inventory,  assessment,
remediation  and  testing.  A detailed  inventory of all  computers  and related
systems was completed and all critical  upgrades were finished for all computers
that were non-Year 2000  compliant.  All  factory-dependent  computers were also
tested and are now Year 2000 compliant. The only other remaining steps include a
network patch that impacts our utilities  and the  conversion of the  electronic
mail system.  We do not believe that these  conversions  are business  critical.
Individual software installations are also being reviewed. These remaining areas
should be completed no later than September 1999.

Although we cannot  control  whether and how third parties will address the Year
2000 issue, we have now contacted  critical  vendors and suppliers and have been
informed  that they have the  ability  to ensure  smooth  delivery  of  products
without  disruptions  caused by Year 2000  problems.  Based on the  responses of
these   vendors  to  our  survey,   we  believe  that  our  vendors  are  either
substantially  Year 2000  compliant  or that any  noncompliance  will not have a
material effect on our operations.  We have now received  assurances from 95% of
these  vendors.  We anticipate  that the remaining  vendors also will be able to
ensure delivery of product;  however, we do not expect that this assessment will
be complete until September 1999.

Costs

We do not believe that the costs associated with Year 2000 compliance have had a
material  adverse  effect on our  business,  results of  operations or financial
condition. As of June 27, 1999, this project is substantially complete and we do
not anticipate that we will incur any material costs in winding up the project.

Year 2000 Risks

Although we believe that our  planning  efforts are adequate to address our Year
2000 concerns,  there can be no assurance  that we will not experience  negative
consequences  and material costs as a result of undetected  errors or defects in
the technology used in our internal  systems.  Also,  there is no assurance that
the systems of third parties on which we rely will be made compliant on a timely
basis.  If  realized,  these  risks  could  result in an  adverse  effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

                                      -28-
<PAGE>
We believe that our greatest risk stems from the potential non-compliance of our
suppliers. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials,
components  and  equipment  necessary  for  the  manufacture  of  our  products.
Accordingly,  if those  suppliers  are  unable to  process or fill our orders or
otherwise  interact with us because of Year 2000 problems,  we could  experience
material adverse effects to our business. We are in the process of assessing the
Year 2000 status of our suppliers  and are  investigating  alternate  sources of
supply.  As a consequence  of our  dependence on limited  sources of supply,  we
generally  maintain a significant  inventory of certain  critical  materials and
require  suppliers to keep certain amounts of inventory  available for us. There
can be no  assurance  that we will have  enough  materials  on hand to  continue
production  without  interruption  in the  event  one or more  of our  suppliers
experiences Year 2000 problems that affect its (their) ability to supply us. Any
supply chain  disruptions  would affect our ability to manufacture our products,
which could result in material adverse consequences to our business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

Contingencies

We have not yet developed a contingency  plan to address what the Company should
do if we are unable to address  the Year 2000 issue.  We expect the  contingency
plan to be in place after the inquiry of vendors and customers is completed.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Quantitative Disclosures:

As of June 27, 1999,  the Company  maintains an investment in equity  securities
that is treated for  accounting  purposes under SFAS 115 as "available for sale"
securities.  This  investment  is carried at fair market value based upon quoted
market price of that investment as of June 27, 1999,  with net unrealized  gains
or losses  excluded  from  earnings  and  reported  as a separate  component  of
stockholder's  equity. This investment,  which consists of common stock of MVIS,
is subject to market risk of equity price  changes.  The common stock of MVIS is
publicly traded on the Nasdaq National Market. The Company acquired these shares
from MVIS in a private  placement and has agreed not to sell the shares until at
least January 6, 2000;  however,  MVIS filed a registration  statement in August
1999 covering the Company's sale of these shares. Since the Company is currently
restricted from trading these shares and management views this transaction as an
investment,  the shares are  accounted for as  "available  for sale"  securities
under SFAS 115.  The fair market value of this  investment  as of June 27, 1999,
using the closing sale price as of June 25, 1999, was $6.1 million, representing
268,600 shares.

During fiscal 1999, the Company repaid the term loan that was  outstanding as of
June 28, 1998. The Company currently has no debt outstanding, therefore, Cree is
no longer subject to interest rate risk.

Qualitative Disclosures:

The  investment  in MVIS  common  stock is subject to the market  risk of equity
price  changes.  While the Company  can not predict or manage the future  market
price for such stock,  management  continues to evaluate its investment position
on an ongoing basis.

                                      -29-
<PAGE>
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

                  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                                                           Page

Report of Independent Auditors..............................................31

Report of Independent Accountants...........................................32

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 27, 1999 and June 28, 1998...........33

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended June 27, 1999,
June 28, 1998 and June 30, 1997.............................................34

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow for the years ended June 27, 1999,
June 28, 1998 and June 30, 1997.............................................35

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended
June 27, 1999, June 28, 1998 and June 30, 1997..............................36

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................................37














                                      -30-
<PAGE>
                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS




Board of Directors and Shareholders
Cree Research, Inc.

We have audited the  accompanying  consolidated  balance sheet of Cree Research,
Inc.  and  subsidiaries  as of  June  27,  1999,  and the  related  consolidated
statements  of income,  shareholders'  equity,  and cash flows for the year then
ended.  These  financial  statements  are the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements  based on our audit. The  consolidated  financial  statements of Cree
Research, Inc. and subsidiaries as of and for the two year period ended June 28,
1998 were audited by other  auditors  whose report dated July 22, 1998 expressed
an unqualified opinion on those statements.

We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Those standards  require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance   about  whether  the  financial   statements  are  free  of  material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material  respects,  the consolidated  financial position of Cree
Research,  Inc.  and  subsidiaries  as of June 27,  1999,  and the  consolidated
results of their  operations  and their cash flows for the year then  ended,  in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Ernst & Young LLP

Raleigh, North Carolina
July 23, 1999









                                      -31-
<PAGE>
                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



Board of Directors and Shareholders
Cree Research, Inc.

In our opinion,  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheet and the related
consolidated  statements of operations,  of  shareholders'  equity,  and of cash
flows present fairly, in all material  respects,  the financial position of Cree
Research,  Inc.  and  subsidiaries  at June 28,  1998,  and the results of their
operations  and their cash flows for the years  ended June 28, 1998 and June 30,
1997,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  These
financial  statements are the  responsibility of the Company's  management;  our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements based on
our audits.  We conducted  our audits of these  statements  in  accordance  with
generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material  misstatement.  An audit includes  examining,  on a test basis,
evidence  supporting the amounts and  disclosures  in the financial  statements,
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  and evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We
believe  that our audits  provide a reasonable  basis for the opinion  expressed
above.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Raleigh, North Carolina
July 22, 1998












                                      -32-
<PAGE>
                              CREE RESEARCH, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                   (In thousands, except per share amounts)

                                                          June 27,     June 28,
                                                            1999         1998
                                                         ---------     ---------
ASSETS
Current assets:
     Cash and cash equivalents                           $ 42,506      $ 17,680
     Marketable securities                                  6,145           657
     Accounts receivable, net                              16,285        10,479
     Inventories                                            3,977         2,543
     Deferred income taxes                                    296         1,952
     Prepaid expenses and other current assets                558         1,347
                                                         ---------     ---------
         Total current assets                              69,767        34,658

     Property and equipment, net                           69,884        36,476
     Patent and license rights, net                         1,731         1,525
     Deferred income taxes                                  2,827           --
     Other assets                                               8            65
                                                         ---------     ---------
         Total assets                                    $144,217      $ 72,724
                                                         =========     =========

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
     Accounts payable, trade                              $ 7,487       $ 5,595
     Current maturities of long term debt                     --             17
     Accrued salaries and wages                               819           391
     Other accrued expenses                                 1,239         1,052
                                                         ---------     ---------
         Total current liabilities                          9,545         7,055
Long term liabilities:
     Long term debt                                           --          8,650
     Deferred income taxes                                  4,650         2,154
                                                         ---------     ---------
         Total long term liabilities                        4,650        10,804

Shareholders' equity:
     Preferred stock, par value $0.01; 3,000 shares           --            --
      authorized at June 27, 1999 and 2,750 shares
      authorized at June 28, 1998; none issued and
      outstanding
     Common stock, par value $0.0025; 60,000 shares            73            65
      authorized at June 27, 1999 and 29,000 shares
      authorized at June 28, 1998; shares issued and
      outstanding 29,258 and 25,978 at June 27, 1999
      and June 28, 1998, respectively
     Additional paid-in-capital                           111,136        49,676
     Retained earnings                                     18,813         5,124
                                                         ---------     ---------
         Total shareholders' equity                       130,022        54,865
                                                         ---------     ---------
         Total liabilities and shareholders' equity      $144,217      $ 72,724
                                                         =========     =========


               The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                      -33-
<PAGE>
                                CREE RESEARCH, INC.
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                     (In thousands, except per share amounts)

                                             June 27,      June 28,     June 30,
                                               1999          1998         1997
                                            ---------      --------     --------
Revenue:
   Product revenue, net                     $ 53,464       $34,891      $19,823
   Contract revenue, net                       6,586         7,640        6,535
   License fee income                            --            --         2,615
                                            ---------      --------     --------
    Total revenue                             60,050        42,531       28,973

Cost of revenue:
   Product revenue, net                       26,977        21,727       13,388
   Contract revenue, net                       4,943         6,252        5,707
                                            ---------      --------     --------
    Total cost of revenue                     31,920        27,979       19,095

Gross profit                                  28,130        14,552        9,878

Operating expenses:
   Research and development                    4,443         1,774        1,826
   Sales, general and administrative           6,064         4,131        4,301
   Other expense                               1,041           502          639
                                            ---------      --------     --------
    Income from operations                    16,582         8,145        3,112

Interest income, net                           1,060           730          607
                                            ---------      --------     --------
    Income before income taxes                17,642         8,875        3,719

Income tax expense                             4,940         2,600          177
                                            ---------      --------     --------
    Net income                               $12,702       $ 6,275      $ 3,542
                                            =========      ========     ========

Other comprehensive income, net of tax
    Unrealized holding gains                     987           --           --
                                            =========      ========     ========
Comprehensive income                         $13,689       $ 6,275      $ 3,542
                                            =========      ========     ========
Earnings per share:
    Basic                                      $0.47         $0.24        $0.14
                                            =========      ========     ========
    Diluted                                    $0.45         $0.23        $0.13
                                            =========      ========     ========

Shares used in per share calculation:
    Basic                                     27,015        25,726       24,911
                                            =========      ========     ========
    Diluted                                   28,432        26,987       26,251
                                            =========      ========     ========



               The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                      -34-
<PAGE>
                               CREE RESEARCH, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW
                                 (In Thousands)

                                                  June 27,   June 28,   June 30,
                                                    1999       1998       1997
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Operating activities:
     Net income                                   $ 12,702   $  6,275   $ 3,542
     Adjustments to reconcile net income
      to net cash provided by operating
      activities:
     Depreciation and amortization                   5,382      4,217     3,356
     Loss on disposal of property and
      equipment                                      1,602        719       631
     Loss on write off of patents                       51         17       141
     Amortization of patent rights                     117        102       108
     Amortization and write off of goodwill            --          86        41
     Purchase of marketable trading
      securities                                     (233)    (1,500)       --
     Proceeds from sale of marketable
      trading securities                             1,421        421       --
     Loss (gain) on marketable trading
      securities                                     (141)         32       --
     Deferred income taxes                           3,494        394     (192)
     Income tax benefits from stock
      option exercises                               2,672      1,791        96
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
        Accounts receivable                        (6,196)    (2,398)     (891)
        Inventories                                (1,434)      1,406     (723)
        Prepaid expenses and other assets          (1,981)      (882)     (262)
        Accounts payable, trade                      1,892      1,092     (226)
        Accrued expenses                               598        320      476
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Net cash provided by operating activities           19,946     12,092     6,097
                                                  --------   --------   --------

Investing activities:
     Maturity of investment securities                --         --       1,787
     Purchase of available for sale
      security                                     (4,500)       --         --
     Purchase of property and equipment           (40,578)   (15,287)   (8,115)
     Proceeds from sale of property and
      equipment                                        186        463        13
     Purchase of patent rights                       (374)      (377)     (310)
                                                  --------   --------   --------
        Net cash used in investing
         activities                               (45,266)   (15,201)   (6,625)
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Financing activities:
     Net proceeds from issuance of long
      term debt                                      1,350      8,667       --
     Net repayment of long term debt              (10,000)        --        --
     Net proceeds from issuance of common
      stock                                         61,415      2,936       926
     Receipt of Section 16(b) common
      stock profits                                    594       --         --
     Repurchase of common stock                    (3,213)    (1,262)     (112)
                                                  --------   --------   --------
        Net cash provided by financing
         activities                                 50,146     10,341       814
                                                  --------   --------   --------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents         $ 24,826   $  7,232   $   286
Cash and cash equivalents:
     Beginning of year                            $ 17,680   $ 10,448   $10,162
                                                  --------   --------   --------
     End of year                                  $ 42,506   $ 17,680   $10,448
                                                  ========   ========   ========
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow
  information:
     Cash paid for interest, net of
      amounts capitalized                         $    257   $     74   $   --
                                                  --------   --------   --------
     Cash paid for income taxes                   $  2,175   $    336   $   300
                                                  ========   ========   ========

               The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                      -35-
<PAGE>
                                  CREE RESEARCH, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
              YEARS ENDING JUNE 27, 1999, JUNE 28, 1998 AND JUNE 30, 1997
                                    (In Thousands)

                                                                       Total
                              Common   Additional                      Share-
                              Stock     Paid-in   Retained  Treasury   holders'
                             Par Value  Capital   Earnings   Stock     Equity
                             --------- ---------- --------- ---------  --------

Balance at June 30, 1996       $ 61     $45,342   $(4,693)   $ (38)    $ 40,672
Common stock options
exercised for cash, 104
shares...................                   160                             160
Common stock warrants
exercised for cash, 406
shares...................         1         766                             767
Purchase of common stock
for the treasury, 20 shares                                   (112)       (112)
Retirement of 40 treasury
shares...................                 (150)                 150          --
Income tax benefits from
stock option exercises...                    96                              96
Net income...............                            3,542                3,542
                             --------- ---------- --------- ---------  --------
Balance at June 30, 1997         62      46,214    (1,151)      --       45,125

Common stock options
exercised for cash, 434
shares...................         1       1,693                           1,694
Common stock warrants
exercised for cash, 662
shares..................          2       1,240                           1,242
Purchase of common stock
for the treasury, 164 shares                                (1,262)      (1,262)
Retirement of 164 treasury
shares..................                (1,262)               1,262          --
Income tax benefits from
stock option exercises...                 1,791                           1,791
Net income...............                            6,275                6,275
                             --------- ---------- --------- ---------  --------
Balance at June 28, 1998         65      49,676      5,124     --        54,865

Common stock options
exercised for cash, 418
shares..................          1       1,511                           1,512
Common stock warrants
exercised for cash, 342
shares..................                  4,656                           4,656
Issuance of common stock
for cash 2,990 shares...          7      55,240                          55,247
Purchase of common stock
for the treasury, 2,990
shares.................                                     (3,213)     (3,213)
Retirement of 470 treasury
shares.................                 (3,213)               3,213          --
Receipt of Section 16(b)
common stock profits from a
director...............                     594                             594
Income tax benefits from
stock option exercises....                2,672                           2,672
Other comprehensive income,
net of tax...............                              987                  987
Net income...............                           12,702               12,702
                             --------- ---------- --------- ---------  --------
Balance at June 27, 1999       $ 73    $111,136   $ 18,813   $  --     $130,022
                             ========= ========== ========= =========  =========

               The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                      -36-
<PAGE>
                             CREE RESEARCH, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.    NATURE OF BUSINESS

Cree Research,  Inc.,  the  "Company," or "Cree," a North Carolina  corporation,
develops, manufactures, and markets silicon carbide-based semiconductor devices.
Revenues are primarily derived from the sale of blue light emitting diodes,  and
silicon carbide based materials.  The Company markets its blue LED chip products
principally to customers who incorporate  them into packaged lamps for resale to
original equipment  manufacturers.  The Company also sells SiC material products
to corporate, government, and university research laboratories. In addition, the
Company is engaged in a variety of research  programs related to the advancement
of SiC process  technology and the  development of electronic  devices that take
advantage  of SiC's  unique  physical  and  electronic  properties.  The Company
recovers the costs of a  significant  portion of its  research  and  development
efforts  from  revenues  on  these   contracts  with  agencies  of  the  Federal
government. This funding is recorded as contract revenue.

2.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Principles of Consolidation

The  consolidated  financial  statements  include the accounts of Cree Research,
Inc., and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Real Color Displays, Inc. ("RCD"), Cree
Research FSC, Inc. ("FSC"), and Cree Technologies,  Inc. ("Tech").  All material
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Fiscal Year

The Company's fiscal year is a 52 or 53 week period ending on the last Sunday in
the month of June. In fiscal 1998, the Company  changed its fiscal year from the
twelve months ending June 30, to the 52-week period ending on the last Sunday in
the month of June.

Estimates

The  preparation  of these  financial  statements in conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,  and the
disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities,  at June 27, 1999 and June 28,
1998, and the reported  amounts of revenues and expenses  during the years ended
June 27, 1999, June 28, 1998 and June 30, 1997. Actual amounts could differ from
those estimates.

Revenue Recognition

The Company  recognizes product revenue at the time of shipment or in accordance
with the terms of the relevant  contract.  Revenue from government  contracts is
recorded on the  percentage-of-completion  method as expenses  per  contract are
incurred.  License  fee  income is  recognized  when the  transfer  of  licensed
technology is completed.

Contract revenue represents reimbursement by various U.S. Government entities to
aid in the  furthering  of  the  development  of  the  Company's  technology  by
supplementing  the Company's  research and

                                      -37-
<PAGE>
development efforts. The applicable contracts generally provide that the Company
may elect to retain ownership of inventions made in performing the work, subject
to a  non-transferable,  non-exclusive  license  retained by the  government  to
practice the inventions  for  government  purposes.  Contract  revenue  includes
funding of direct research and development  costs and a portion of the Company's
general and  administrative  expenses and other operating expenses for contracts
under  which  funding is expected  to exceed  direct  costs over the life of the
contract. The specific reimbursement provisions of the contracts,  including the
portion of the Company's general and administrative expenses and other operating
expenses that are reimbursed, vary by contract. Such reimbursements are recorded
as contract  revenue.  For contracts  under which the Company  anticipates  that
direct  costs will  exceed  amounts to be funded  over the life of the  contract
(i.e.,  certain cost share  arrangements),  the Company  reports direct costs as
research and  development  expenses with related  reimbursements  recorded as an
offset to those expenses.

In September 1996, the Company entered into a license and supply  agreement with
Shin-Etsu  Handotai Co. LTD.  ("Shin-Etsu") and other parties to use certain LED
fabrication  technology and has agreed to supply silicon carbide wafers required
to manufacture the licensed product.  The license agreement provides for payment
of a license fee and  royalties  based on a percentage of sales of products made
using the licensed technology. The license fee was payable in installments which
totaled  $2,700,000.  As of June 27, 1999,  all license fees have been received.
Substantially  all  of  the  Company's  obligations  to  transfer  the  licensed
technology  were  performed  during fiscal 1997 and the net present value of the
license fee payments and commission were recognized.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash  equivalents  consist of  unrestricted  cash  accounts  and highly
liquid  investments  with an  original  maturity  of three  months  or less when
purchased.

Marketable Securities

Investments  are  accounted  for  in  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 115 (SFAS No. 115) "Accounting for Certain Investments
in Debt and Equity Securities". This statement requires certain securities to be
classified into three categories:

    (a)    Securities  Held-to-Maturity- Debt securities that the entity has the
           positive  intent and  ability to hold to  maturity  are  reported  at
           amortized cost.
    (b)    Trading  Securities-  Debt and equity  securities that are bought and
           held  principally  for the  purpose  of  selling in the near term are
           reported at fair value,  with unrealized gains and losses included in
           earnings.
    (c)    Securities   Available-for-Sale-   Debt  and  equity  securities  not
           classified   as  either   securities   held-to-maturity   or  trading
           securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses
           excluded  from  earnings  and  reported  as a separate  component  of
           shareholders' equity.

As of June 27, 1999, the Company's  short-term  investments  consisted of common
stock holdings of Microvision,  Inc.  ("MVIS").  The Company  purchased  268,600
common shares in a private  equity  transaction in May 1999 at a price of $16.75
per share. In August 1999, MVIS filed a registration statement for the Company's
sale of these shares;  however,  Cree has agreed not to sell the shares until at
least January 6, 2000.  Since the Company is currently  restricted  from trading
these shares and management views this transaction as an investment,  the shares
are accounted for as "available for sale"

                                      -38-
<PAGE>
securities  under SFAS 115.  Therefore  unrealized  gains or losses are excluded
from earnings and reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity.

As of June 28, 1998, the Company's  short-term  investments  consisted of common
stock holdings in C3, Inc ("C3"),  the majority of which were bought in November
1997.  The Company also acquired  additional  shares of C3 in September 1998 and
acquired 24,601 shares directly from C3 pursuant to the exercise of an option in
January 1997. This  investment was treated for accounting  purposes as a trading
security,  with net realized  and  unrealized  gains and losses  included in net
earnings.  All common  shares of C3 held by Cree were  subsequently  sold during
fiscal 1999. Realized gains on shares of C3 stock sold during fiscal 1999 by the
Company were $140,000.  This amount was recorded as other income.  Approximately
$32,000  of net loss was  recorded  to other  income  (expense)  in fiscal  1998
related to this investment.

As of June 28, 1998,  the  Company's  president  had  promised to indemnify  the
Company  for  losses up to  $300,000,  plus the  lesser of  $100,000  or the net
difference  between  the per share  selling  price and  $9.375 per share for all
shares of C3 common  stock  sold by Cree.  As a result,  at June 28,  1998,  the
Company had recorded a $390,000  receivable  from the president  based upon this
agreement for the net realized and unrealized  losses on this investment.  Since
Cree sold its shares of C3 for a net gain,  the  indemnity  has been  terminated
with no payments becoming due.

Inventories

Inventories  are  stated  at the  lower  of  cost or  market,  with  cost  being
determined using the first-in,  first-out (FIFO) method.  Inventories consist of
the following:

                                                  June 27,     June 28,
                                                    1999         1998
                                                 in (000)s     in (000)s
                                                 ---------     ---------
      Raw materials                               $ 1,290       $  999
      Work-in-progress                              1,675          752
      Finished goods                                1,012          792
                                                 ---------     ---------
                                                 $  3,977       $2,543
                                                 =========     =========


Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are recorded at cost and  depreciated on a  straight-line
basis over the estimated  useful lives of the assets,  which range from three to
twenty years.  Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the related
lease.  Expenditures  for  repairs  and  maintenance  are  charged to expense as
incurred.  The costs of major  renewals  and  betterments  are  capitalized  and
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The cost and related  accumulated
depreciation  of the assets are removed from the accounts upon  disposition  and
any resulting gain or loss is reflected in operations.

The Company has  entered  into two  agreements  with C3 to sell  crystal  growth
equipment  manufactured by the Company to C3 at cost plus a reasonable  overhead
allocation.  As a result of these  transactions,  the Company has  recognized an
overhead  allocation of $473,000 and  $332,000,  in fiscal 1999 and fiscal 1998,
respectively, as "other operating income".

                                      -39-
<PAGE>
In  November   1997,  the  Company   purchased   real  property   consisting  of
approximately  thirty acres of land with a production  facility of approximately
139,000 square feet and a total of  approximately  33,000 square feet of service
and warehouse buildings.  This property is located in Durham, North Carolina, in
the vicinity of the Research  Triangle Park. The purchase price for the land and
buildings  was  $3,000,000.  The  Company  has now  moved  the  majority  of its
employees and production to this facility.

The Company  assesses the  realizability of the carrying value of its investment
in property and equipment  whenever events or changes in  circumstance  indicate
that an  impairment  may have  occurred in  accordance  with the  provisions  of
Statement  of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  121  ("SFAS  No.  121"),
"Accounting  for  Impairment of Long Lived Assets and Assets to be Disposed of".
As of June 27, 1999, the Company has not recorded any impairment in the carrying
value of its property and equipment.

Patent and License Rights

Patent  rights  reflect  costs  incurred to enhance and maintain  the  Company's
intellectual property position. License rights reflect costs incurred to use the
intellectual  property of others.  Both are amortized on a straight-line  basis.
During fiscal 1997, the Company changed its previous estimate of the useful life
of patents  from 17 years,  beginning at the date of patent  issue,  to 20 years
from the date of  patent  application.  This  change  was made to  conform  to a
legislative  amendment made to the U.S. patent laws,  which became  effective in
June 1995.  This  change in  estimate  had no  material  impact to net income or
earnings per share,  since the average period of time between patent application
and issue is generally  about three years.  Amortization  expense was  $117,000,
$102,000 and $108,000 for the years ended June 27, 1999,  June 28, 1998 and June
30,  1997,   respectively.   Total  accumulated  amortization  for  patents  was
approximately  $669,000  and  $560,000  at June 27,  1999  and  June  28,  1998,
respectively.

Goodwill

Goodwill  represented the amount by which the costs to acquire the net assets of
the  Real  Color  Displays  subsidiary  exceeded  their  related  fair  value at
acquisition.  Based on a review of  undiscounted  cash  flows of the  subsidiary
anticipated over the remaining  amortization period, the Company determined that
goodwill had been  impaired.  As a result,  the Company  wrote off the remaining
$66,000 carrying value of such goodwill in the second quarter of fiscal 1998. As
required by generally accepted accounting  principles,  this charge was included
in the results of operations.

Research and Development Policy

The Company contracts with the U.S.  government for many of its current research
and development efforts. By entering into these contracts,  the Company has most
of its research and product development costs funded by the U.S. government. The
contract  funding  may be  based on a  cost-plus  or a  cost-share  arrangement.
Pursuant to each  contract,  the amount of funding is  determined  based on cost
estimates  that  include  direct  costs,  plus an  allocation  for  research and
development,  general  and  administrative  and the  cost of  capital  expenses.
Cost-plus  funding is  determined  based on actual  costs plus a set  percentage
margin. For the cost-share  contracts,  the actual costs are divided between the
U.S.  government  and the  Company  based  on the  terms  of the  contract.  The
government's cost share is then funded to the Company.  The contracts  typically
require the  submission of a written  report that  documents the results of such
research.

Funding on  contracts  under which the Company  anticipates  that  funding  will
exceed  direct  costs over the life of the  contract  is  recorded  as  contract
revenue and related costs are reported as a cost of revenue.

                                      -40-
<PAGE>
For contracts under which the Company  anticipates that direct costs will exceed
amounts to be funded over the life of the  contract,  direct  costs are shown as
research  and  development  expenses  and related  funding as an offset of those
expenses.  The following  table details  information  about  contracts for which
direct  expenses  exceed  funding by period as  reflected in the  statements  of
operations:

                                                 Year ended (in 000s)
                                        June 27,        June 28,       June 30,
                                          1999            1998           1997
                                        --------        --------       --------
Net research and development costs      $  --           $  276         $   671
Government funding                         --              601           2,186
                                        --------        --------       --------
Total direct costs incurred             $  --           $  877         $ 2,857
                                        ========        ========       ========

As of June 28, 1998, all funding under contracts  where the Company  anticipates
that  direct  costs  will  exceed  amounts  to be  funded  has  been  exhausted.
Therefore,  the  Company  anticipates  that all future  funding  under  existing
contracts  will be  reflected  as contract  revenue  while  direct costs will be
reported as contract cost of revenue.

Interest Capitalization

During the fiscal  years  ended June 27,  1999 and June 28,  1998,  the  Company
capitalized interest on funds used to construct property, plant and equipment in
connection with the newly acquired facility. Interest capitalized for the fiscal
1999 and 1998 was $128,000 and $128,000, respectively.

Credit Risk, Major Customers and Major Suppliers

Financial  instruments,  which may  subject the  Company to a  concentration  of
credit risk,  consist  principally of cash equivalents and accounts  receivable.
The  Company's  cash  equivalents  consist of  commercial  paper.  Certain  bank
deposits may at times be in excess of the FDIC insurance limit.

The Company sells its products to  manufacturers  and researchers  worldwide and
generally  requires no collateral.  The Company maintains reserves for potential
credit losses,  and such losses,  in the  aggregate,  have generally been within
management's  expectations.  The Company  presently derives primarily all of its
contract   revenues  from  contracts  with  the  U.S.   Department  of  Defense.
Approximately 10% and 18%,  respectively,  of the Company's accounts  receivable
balance  at June  27,  1999 and June  28,  1998 was due from the  Department  of
Defense.  In  addition,  the Company had amounts due from  Siemens  A.G. (or its
indirect  subsidiary,  Osram)  totaling  35% and  37%,  of  accounts  receivable
balances at June 27, 1999 and June 28, 1998, respectively.  At June 27, 1999 and
June 28,  1998,  the  Company  had  amounts  due from C3  totaling  17% and 23%,
respectively, of accounts receivable balances.

The Company has derived its product  revenue from sales  primarily in the United
States, the Far East, and Europe as follows:

                                                        Year Ended
                                                   1999     1998    1997
                                                   ----     ----    ----
                United States.......                38%      26%     21%
                Far East............                50%      49%     33%
                Europe..............                11%      24%     44%
                Other...............                 1%       1%      2%

                                      -41-
<PAGE>
One customer accounted for 37%, 40% and 31% of revenue for fiscal 1999, 1998 and
1997,  respectively.  Another customer  accounted for 19%, 11% and 2% of revenue
for  fiscal  1999,  1998 and  1997,  respectively.  The  Department  of  Defense
accounted for 100%, 93% and 99% of contract  revenues during fiscal 1999,  1998,
and 1997, respectively.

The Company  depends on single or limited  source  suppliers for a number of raw
materials  and  components  used  in  its  SiC  wafer  products  and  LEDs.  Any
interruption  in the supply of these key  materials or  components  could have a
significant adverse effect on the Company's operations.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per common share is computed using the weighted average number of
common stock shares  outstanding.  Diluted earnings per common share is computed
using the weighted  average number of common stock shares  outstanding  adjusted
for the incremental shares attributed to outstanding  options to purchase common
stock.

Accounting for Stock Based Compensation

In accordance with Accounting  Principles  Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for
Stock Issued to  Employees,  no  compensation  is recorded for stock  options or
other  stock-based  awards that are granted to employees  with an exercise price
equal to or above the common stock price on the grant date.

In October,  1995, the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  ("FASB")  issued
Statement No. 123 ("FAS 123"),  "Accounting for Stock Based  Compensation." This
Statement establishes fair value as the measurement basis for equity instruments
issued in exchange for goods or services  and  stock-based  compensation  plans.
Fair value may be measured using quoted market prices,  option-pricing models or
other  reasonable  estimation  methods.  FAS 123  permits  the Company to choose
between  adoption of the fair value  based  method or  disclosing  pro forma net
income  information.  The Statement is effective for  transactions  entered into
after  December 31, 1995.  The Company will continue to account for  stock-based
compensation in accordance with Accounting  Principles  Board Opinion No. 25, as
amended, and provide only the pro forma disclosures required by FAS 123.

3.    ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

The following is a summary of accounts receivable:

                                               June 27, 1999      June 28, 1998
                                                 (in 000s)          (in 000s)
                                               -------------      -------------

      Trade receivables                          $ 14,685           $  8,971
      Other short term receivables                  1,775              1,659
                                               -------------      --------------
                                                   16,460             10,630
      Allowance for doubtful accounts               (175)              (151)
                                               -------------      --------------
      Total accounts receivable                  $ 16,285           $ 10,479
                                               =============      ==============

                                      -42-
<PAGE>
The  following  table  summarizes  the changes in the  Company's  allowance  for
doubtful  accounts for the years ended June 27, 1999, June 28, 1998 and June 30,
1997:

                                         June 27,       June 28,      June 30,
                                           1999           1998          1997
                                        (in 000s)      (in 000s)     (in 000s)
                                        ---------      ---------     ---------
Balance at beginning of year              $ 151          $ 216         $  50
Charges to cost and expenses                 24             50           190
Deductions (write-offs to reserve)          --           (115)          (24)
                                        ---------      ---------     ---------
Balance at end of year                    $ 175          $ 151         $ 216
                                        =========      =========     =========


4.    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

The following is a summary of property and equipment:

                                                June 27,         June 28,
                                                  1999             1998
                                                (in 000s)        (in 000s)
                                                ---------        ---------
    Office equipment and furnishings             $ 1,948          $ 1,372
    Land & Buildings                              21,031            3,501
    Machinery and equipment                       46,199           28,136
    Leasehold improvements                         1,549            4,697
                                                ---------        ---------
                                                  70,727           37,706
    Accumulated depreciation                    (13,311)         (10,304)
                                                ---------        ---------
                                                  57,416           27,402
    Construction in progress                      12,468            9,074
                                                ---------        ---------
    Net Property & Equipment                     $69,884          $36,476
                                                =========        =========


Depreciation  and  amortization  of property and equipment  totaled  $5,382,000,
$4,217,000 and  $3,356,000 for the years ended June 27, 1999,  June 28, 1998 and
June 30, 1997, respectively.

5.    SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

At June 27, 1999, the Articles of  Incorporation  of the Company  authorized the
Company to issue up to 30,000,000  shares of common  stock,  with a par value of
$0.005 per share, and 3,000,000  shares of preferred stock,  with a par value of
$0.01 per share.  The  preferred  stock may be issued in one or more  classes or
series with the number of shares, designation, relative rights, preferences, and
limitations  of each class or series to be determined by resolution of the Board
of Directors. The Articles of Incorporation were amended, effective at the close
of business on July 26, 1999, to effect a two-for-one split of the common stock.
As a  result,  as of the  effective  date  of the  amendment,  the  Articles  of
Incorporation  authorize the Company to issue up to 60,000,000  shares of common
stock,  with a par value of $0.0025 per share.  The amendment did not change the
number of authorized shares or other provisions relating to the preferred stock.
All share numbers have been restated to give effect to the stock split.

On February 17, 1999, the Company  completed a public offering selling 2,990,000
shares of its common stock at a price of $19.69 per share.  The Company received
net  aggregate   proceeds  of   approximately   $55.2  million  after  deducting
underwriter  discounts  and  estimated  offering  costs.  A  portion  of the net

                                      -43-
<PAGE>
proceeds, $10 million, was used to repay debt to a commercial bank. The majority
of the funds are being used for plant  expansion  and the  balance  for  general
corporate  purposes,  including working capital and potential  acquisition of or
investments in complementary businesses.

6.    STOCK OPTIONS AND STOCK WARRANTS

As permitted by FAS 123, "Accounting For Stock-Based Compensation",  the Company
has elected to follow  Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees"  and related  interpretations  and  amendments in
accounting for its employee stock option plans.

The Company's  Amended and Restated Equity  Compensation Plan has authorized the
grant of options for up to 5,400,000  shares of the Company's  common stock. All
options granted have 10 year terms and vest and become fully exercisable  within
5 years.  The Company had granted 192,000 options with a 10 year term for shares
of the  Company's  common  stock under the Stock  Option  Plan for  Non-Employee
Directors.  This plan was  terminated in November  1997 and all 192,000  options
granted under this plan are now fully vested.  The Company's current stock plans
provide for grants of options with  exercise  prices equal to or exceeding  fair
market value on the date of grant.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
Statement  123, and has been  determined as if the Company had accounted for its
employee  stock options under the fair value method of the  Statement.  The fair
value of these options was estimated at the date of grant using a  Black-Scholes
option  pricing model with weighted  average risk free rates of interest of 5.3%
and 5.6%, for the years ended June 27, 1999 and June 28, 1998, respectively. The
volatility  factor of the expected market price of the Company's common stock is
1.174 and the  weighted-average  expected  life of the  options  was 7 years for
executives and directors and 5 years for other employees.

For  purposes  of  pro-forma  disclosures,  the  estimated  fair  value of the
options  is  amortized  to  expense  over the  options'  vesting  period.  The

Company's pro forma information is as follows:

                                          June 27,       June 28,      June 30,
                                            1999           1998          1997
                                          (in 000s)     (in 000s)     (in 000s)
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------
Net income, as reported                   $ 12,702       $ 6,275        $3,542

Pro forma net income, as adjusted            8,968         4,405         1,418
for FAS 123

Pro forma earnings per share:
      Basic                                 $ 0.33        $ 0.17        $ 0.05
      Diluted                               $ 0.32        $ 0.16        $ 0.05


The following  table details the number of stock options  outstanding  and their
related exercise prices as of June 27, 1999:

                                      -44-
<PAGE>
               Number of Options Outstanding as of June 27, 1999

                                                              Weighted-Average
               Exercise Price          Number of Options      Contractual Life
               --------------          -----------------      ----------------
                   $ 0.21                     2,866               1 year
                   $ 1.56                    16,000               5 years
                   $ 1.81                   322,584               4 years
                   $ 1.88                    10,668               1 year
                   $ 2.00                    87,200               5 years
                   $ 2.19                    12,000               5 years
                   $ 3.41                     8,000               4 years
                   $ 3.69                    12,000               5 years
                   $ 4.69                    38,800               8 years
                   $ 5.13                    21,400               8 years
                   $ 5.60                    26,900               7 years
                   $ 6.49                   752,200               8 years
                   $ 7.13                    46,000               9 years
                   $ 7.19                   330,950               6 years
                   $ 7.63                 1,189,800               9 years
                   $ 7.88                    96,000               7 years
                   $ 8.19                    38,400               9 years
                   $ 8.38                    10,000               9 years
                   $ 8.88                    33,600               9 years
                   $ 9.38                    71,800               8 years
                   $ 9.69                    20,000               9 years
                   $12.32                   114,000               9 years
                   $20.50                   134,400              10 years
                   $22.60                   139,600              10 years
                   $22.63                    78,000              10 years
                                       -----------------
                                          3,613,168


                                       Total Option Activity
                   -------------------------------------------------------------
                     June 27, 1999        June 28, 1998        June 30, 1997
                             Weighted             Weighted              Weighted
                    Options   Average    Options   Average    Options    Average
                   (in 000s)  Price     (in 000s)  Price     (in 000s)    Price
                   --------- --------   --------- --------   ---------  --------
Outstanding -
beginning of year    2,410    $ 5.10      1,854    $ 2.38      1,264     $ 2.20
Granted              1,712    $10.85      1,084    $ 6.99        762     $ 6.78
Exercised            (418)    $ 3.63      (434)    $ 3.90      (104)     $ 1.54
Forfeited             (91)    $ 7.08       (94)    $ 4.34       (68)     $ 4.03
                   ---------            ---------            ---------
Outstanding -
end of year          3,613    $ 8.14      2,410    $ 5.10      1,854     $ 2.38

Exerciseable at
end of year          1,478    $ 5.39      1,198    $ 4.20      1,404     $ 3.72

                                      -45-
<PAGE>
In connection with the Company's  September 1995 private placement,  the Company
issued  600,000  warrants,  which  have  an  exercise  price  of  $13.62,  which
represents fair value on the date of grant, and expire September 2000.  Warrants
to purchase 342,000 shares of common stock were exercised during the fiscal year
ended June 27, 1999.  Warrants to purchase 258,000 shares remain  outstanding as
of June 27, 1999 and represent the only warrants outstanding.

7.    LEASE COMMITMENTS

The Company currently leases three facilities. These facilities are comprised of
both office and  manufacturing  space.  The first facility has a remaining lease
period of  approximately  two and one half years.  The lease term for the second
facility began in September  1995. This facility has a remaining lease period of
approximately  one-year with two options to renew for a total of four additional
years.  The lease for the third facility  expires in December 1999. All of these
agreements  provide for rental  adjustments for increases in property taxes, the
consumer price index and general property maintenance.

Rent expense  associated  with these and other expired leases totaled  $430,000,
$522,000 and $549,000 for the years ended June 27, 1999, June 28, 1998, and June
30, 1997,  respectively.  Future minimum rentals as of June 27, 1999 under these
leases are as follows:

                                              Minimum Rental
                Fiscal Years Ended                Amount
                                                (in 000s)
                ------------------            --------------
                  June 25, 2000                   $ 312
                  June 24, 2001                     247
                  June 30, 2002                     119
                                                  -----
                   Total                          $ 678
                                                  =====


8.    LONG-TERM DEBT

In November  1997, the Company  entered into a term loan with a commercial  bank
for up to $10,000,000 to finance the purchase and upfit of the new main facility
in Durham, North Carolina. Approximately $2,950,000 was disbursed under the loan
to finance the initial  purchase of the  facility  with the  remaining  proceeds
disbursed on a monthly basis based on actual  expenditures  incurred.  The loan,
which was  collateralized  by the  purchased  property  and  subsequent  upfits,
accrued  interest  at a  fixed  rate  of 8%  and  carried  customary  covenants,
including  the   maintenance   of  a  minimum   tangible  net  worth  and  other
requirements.  On February 17, 1999,  the entire  $10,000,000  indebtedness  was
repaid with proceeds received from the public stock offering.  At June 28, 1998,
short term and long term  borrowings  associated with this loan were $17,000 and
$8,650,000, respectively.

9. INCOME TAXES

The Company  accounts for its income taxes under the  provisions of Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 109 ("FAS  109"),  "Accounting  for Income
Taxes." Under the asset and liability method of FAS 109, deferred tax assets and
liabilities   are   recognized  for  the  estimated   future  tax   consequences
attributable to differences  between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing  assets and liabilities  and their  respective tax bases.  Deferred tax
assets and  liabilities  are measured  using enacted tax rates in effect for the
year in which  those  temporary  differences  are  expected to be  recovered  or

                                      -46-
<PAGE>
settled.  Under FAS 109, the effect on deferred tax assets and  liabilities of a
change in tax rates is  recognized  in income in the period  that  includes  the
enactment date.

The actual income tax expense for the years ended June 29, 1999,  June 28, 1998,
and June 30,  1997  differed  from the amounts  computed  by  applying  the U.S.
federal  tax rate of 35% in fiscal  1999,  and 34% in fiscal  1998 and 1997,  to
pretax earnings as a result of the following:

                                       June 27,       June 28,       June 30,
                                         1999           1998           1997
                                       (in 000s)      (in 000s)      (in 000s)
                                       ---------      ---------      ---------
Federal income tax provision at        $ 6,174        $ 3,018        $ 1,265
statutory rate
State tax provision                        211            166            193
Increase (decrease) in income tax
expense resulting from:
      Foreign sales corporation          (510)          (214)            --
      Decrease in valuation allowance    (290)          (358)        (1,279)
      Research and development           (251)           --             --
      State tax credits                  (394)           --             --
      Other                               --             (12)            (2)
                                       ---------      ---------      ---------
Income tax expense                     $ 4,940        $ 2,600          $ 177
                                       =========      =========      =========



The following are the components of the provision for income taxes for the years
ended June 27, 1999, June 28, 1998 and June 30, 1997:

                                       June 27,       June 28,       June 30,
                                         1999           1998           1997
                                       (in 000s)      (in 000s)      (in 000s)
                                       ---------      ---------      ---------
Current:
    Federal                            $ 2,553        $   699           $ 54
    Foreign Tax Withholding                --              50            220
    State                                  300            269             95
                                       ---------      ---------      ---------
                                         2,853          1,018            369
Deferred:
    Federal                              2,347          1,582          (442)
    State                                (260)           --              250
                                       ---------      ---------      ---------
                                         2,087          1,582          (192)

Net Provision                          $ 4,940        $ 2,600          $ 177
                                      ==========      =========      =========

                                      -47-
<PAGE>
The tax effects of temporary  differences that give rise to significant portions
of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows:

                                         June 27, 1999     June 28, 1998
                                           (in 000s)         (in 000s)
                                         -------------     -------------
   Deferred tax assets:
     Net operating loss carryforwards       $    97           $ 1,304
     Research tax credits                       420               169
     Compensation                               105                62
     Inventory                                  126               120
     Bad debt                                    65                56
     Alternative minimum tax                  1,513               261
     Foreign tax credit                         270               270
     Other                                      527               --
                                         -------------     -------------
   Total gross deferred tax assets            3,123             2,242
   Less valuation allowance                    --               (290)
                                         -------------     -------------
   Total net deferred tax assets              3,123             1,952

   Deferred tax liabilities:
     Marketable equity securities               658               --
     Property and equipment depreciation      3,992             2,154
                                         -------------     -------------
   Gross deferred tax liabilities             4,650             2,154
                                         -------------     -------------
   Net deferred tax liability             $ (1,527)           $ (202)
                                         =============     =============


The net change in the total  valuation  allowance  for the years  ended June 27,
1999 and June 28, 1998 was $290,000. The primary reason for the reduction in the
valuation  allowance  in  1999  and  1998  was  the  greater  likelihood  of the
utilization   of  future  tax   benefits   from  net   operating   loss  ("NOL")
carryforwards.  Realization  of  deferred  tax  assets  associated  with the NOL
carryforwards is dependent upon the Company generating sufficient taxable income
prior to their expiration. Management believes that there is a risk that certain
of  the  state  NOL  carryforwards  may  expire  unused  and,  accordingly,  has
established a valuation  allowance  against them.  Although  realization  is not
assured for the remaining  deferred tax assets,  management  believes it is more
likely  than not that they will be realized  through  future  taxable  earnings.
However,  the net  deferred  tax  assets  could  be  reduced  in the  future  if
management's  estimates of taxable  income  during the  carryforward  period are
significantly reduced.

As of June 27,  1999,  the  Company has net  operating  loss  carryforwards  for
federal purposes of $75,000 and $1,400,000 for state purposes.  The carryforward
expiration period is 2011 to 2019 for federal tax purposes and from 2000 to 2004
for state purposes.

10.   RETIREMENT PLAN

The Company  maintains an employee benefit plan (the "Plan") pursuant to Section
401(k) of the Internal  Revenue Code.  Under the Plan,  there is no fixed dollar
amount of retirement  benefits,  and actual benefits  received by employees will
depend  on the  amount  of  each  employee's  account  balance  at the  time  of
retirement.  All  employees  are eligible to  participate  under the Plan on the
first day of a new  fiscal  quarter  after  date of hire.  The  Pension  Benefit
Guaranty  Corporation  does  not  insure  the  Plan.  The

                                      -48-
<PAGE>
Company may, at its discretion,  make  contributions to the Plan.  However,  the
Company did not make any  contributions  to the Plan during the years ended June
27, 1999, June 28, 1998 or June 30, 1997.

11.   EARNINGS PER SHARE

The Company has adopted  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS)
No.  128,  "Earnings  Per  Share",  as of  December  28,  1997.  SFAS No.  128
required  the  Company  to change  its  method of  computing,  presenting  and
disclosing  earnings per share  information.  All prior period data  presented
has been restated to conform to the provisions of SFAS No. 128.

The  following  computation  reconciles  the  differences  between the basic and
diluted presentations:

                                         June 27,       June 28,    June 30,
                                           1999           1998        1997
                                         (in 000s)     (in 000s)    (in 000s)
                                         ---------     ---------    ---------
      Basic:
      Net income                         $ 12,702       $ 6,275      $ 3,542
                                         =========     =========    =========
      Weighted average common shares       27,015        25,726       24,911
                                         =========     =========    =========
      Basic income per common share       $ 0.47        $ 0.24       $ 0.14
                                         =========     =========    =========
      Diluted:
      Net income                         $ 12,702       $ 6,275      $ 3,542
                                         =========     =========    =========
      Weighted average common
      shares-basic                         27,105        25,726       24,911
      Dilutive effect of stock options
      & warrants                            1,417         1,261        1,340
                                         ---------     ---------    ---------
      Weighted average common
      shares-diluted                       28,432        26,987       26,251
                                         =========     =========    =========
      Diluted income per common share     $ 0.45        $ 0.23       $ 0.13
                                         =========     =========    =========


Potential common shares that would have the effect of increasing  diluted income
per share are considered to be  antidilutive.  In accordance  with SFAS No. 128,
these shares were not included in calculating  diluted  income per share.  As of
June 27, 1999, there were no potential shares considered to be antidilutive. For
the years ended June 28, 1998 and June 30, 1997,  there were 225,000 and 574,000
shares,  respectively,  that were not included in calculating diluted income per
share because their effect was antidilutive.

12.   NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In fiscal 1999, the Company adopted Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards
No. 130,  "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income"  ("SFAS  130"),  which  establishes
standards for reporting and display of  comprehensive  income and its components
in a full set of  general-purpose  financial  statements.  SFAS 130 only impacts
financial  statement  presentation as opposed to actual amounts recorded.  Other
comprehensive  income includes all non-owner changes in equity that are excluded
from net income.  For fiscal  1999,  the Company  reports  accumulated  gains on
available-for-sale  investment  securities that are accumulated in shareholders'
equity as an item of other  comprehensive  income.  At the time of the sale, any
previously  recognized  gains or losses that were  accumulated in  shareholders'
equity  would be  reversed in  comprehensive  income and then  recognized  as an
element of net  income.  For the year ended June 28,  1998,  the  Company had no
items of other comprehensive income.

                                      -49-
<PAGE>
In fiscal 1999, the Company  adopted  Statement of Financial  Standards No. 131,
"Disclosures  about  Segments of an Enterprise and Related  Information"  ("SFAS
131").  SFAS 131 changes the way public companies report segment  information in
annual financial  statements and also require those companies to report selected
segment  information in interim financial  statements to shareholders.  SFAS 131
also establishes  standards for related disclosures about products and services,
geographic areas, and major customers. The application of the new rules does not
have a significant impact on the Company's  financial  statements as the Company
only operates in a single segment.

In June 1998, The Financial  Accounting Standards Board issues Statement No. 133
"Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities"  ("SFAS 133"),
which is required to be adopted in years beginning after June 15, 1999.  Because
of the Company's minimal use of derivatives, management does not anticipate that
the adoption of the new Statement will have a significant  effect on earnings or
the financial position of the Company.

13.   SUBSEQUENT EVENT

On July 13, 1999 the Company filed a Form 8-K announcing a two-for-one  split of
its common stock.  The stock split was effected by an amendment to the Company's
Articles of Incorporation that became effective at the close of business on July
26, 1999.  With the  effectiveness  of the  amendment,  each issued and unissued
authorized share of common stock,  $0.005 par value per share, was automatically
split into two whole  shares of common  stock,  $0.0025 par value per share.  On
July 30,  1999,  the Company  issued to each holder of record of common  stock a
certificate  evidencing the additional shares of common stock resulting from the
stock  split.  All  references  in this  document to common stock and per common
share data have been adjusted to reflect the common stock split.

Item  9.  Changes  in and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
          Financial Disclosure

          None.


                                   PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The  information  called for in items 10 through 13 is incorporated by reference
from the Company's  definitive proxy statement relating to its annual meeting of
stockholders,  which will be filed with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission
within 120 days after the end of fiscal 1999.

                                      -50-
<PAGE>
                                   PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) (1) and (2)  Financial  statements  and financial  statement  schedule - the
financial  statements and reports of  independent  auditors are filed as part of
this report (see index to Consolidated Financial Statements at Part II Item 8 on
page 30 of this Form 10-K). The financial  statement  schedules are not included
herein  as  they  are  either  not  applicable  or are  included  as part of the
consolidated financial statements.

(a) (3) The  following  exhibits  have been or are being filed  herewith and are
numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K:

  EXHIBIT
    NO.                              DESCRIPTION
  -------   --------------------------------------------------------------------
    3.1     Articles of Incorporation, as amended July 26, 1999
    3.2     Bylaws, as amended May 28, 1999
    4.1     Specimen Common Stock Certificate adopted July 21, 1999
   10.1     Amended and Restated Equity Compensation Plan, as amended June 28,
            1999*
   10.2     Stock  Option  Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors  (terminated  as to
            future grants pursuant to Board action dated September 1, 1997) (1)*
   10.3     License Agreement between the Company and North Carolina State
            University dated December 3, 1987 (2)
   10.4     Amendment to License Agreement between the Company and North
            Carolina State University dated September 11, 1989 (2)
   10.5     Development, License and Supply Agreement between the Company and
            Siemens A.G. dated October 24, 1995 (3)
   10.6     Purchase Agreement between the Company and Siemens A.G. dated
            September 6, 1996 (4)
   10.7     First Amendment to Purchase Agreement between the Company and
            Siemens A.G. dated April 22, 1997 (5)
   10.8     Second Amendment to Purchase Agreement between the Company and
            Siemens A.G. dated December 9, 1997 (6)
   10.9     Third Amendment to Purchase Agreement between the Company and
            Siemens A.G. dated September 8, 1998 (7)
   10.10    Fourth Amendment to Purchase Agreement between the Company and
            Siemens A.G. dated December 16, 1998 (8)
   10.11    Transformation Agreement with Siemens A.G. and OSRAM Opto
            Semiconductors GmbH & Co. OHG effective January 1, 1999
   11.1     Computation of Per Share Earnings
   21.1     Subsidiaries of Registrant (9)
   23.1     Consent of Ernst & Young LLP
   23.2     Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
   27.1     Financial Data Schedule

                                      -51-
<PAGE>
(1)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Registration  Statement filed on Form S-8,  Registration No. 33-98958,  and
     effective with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 3, 1995.

(2)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Registration  Statement filed on Form SB-2,  Registration No. 33-55998, and
     declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 8,
     1993.

(3)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Registration  Statement filed on Form S-3,  Registration No. 33-98728,  and
     declared  effective by the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on December
     27, 1995. Confidential treatment of portions of this exhibit was granted by
     the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  pursuant to Rule 24b-2 by order
     dated December 29, 1995.

(4)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Annual  Report  filed  on  Form  10-K  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission  on September  30, 1996.  Confidential  treatment of portions of
     this exhibit was granted by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant
     to Rule 24b-2 by order dated November 21, 1996.

(5)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Quarterly  Report  filed on Form  10-Q  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission  on May 2, 1997.  Confidential  treatment  of  portions  of this
     exhibit was granted by the Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to
     Rule 24b-2 by order dated June 26, 1997.

(6)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Quarterly  Report  filed on Form  10-Q  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission on January 30, 1998.  Confidential treatment of portions of this
     exhibit was granted by the Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to
     Rule 24b-2 by order dated February 12, 1998.

(7)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Quarterly  Report  filed on Form  10-Q  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission on October 30, 1998.  Confidential treatment of portions of this
     exhibit was granted by the Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to
     Rule 24b-2 by order dated November 23, 1998.

(8)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Quarterly  Report  filed on Form  10-Q  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission on January 28, 1999.  Confidential treatment of portions of this
     exhibit was granted by the Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to
     Rule 24b-2 by order dated February 24, 1999.

(9)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Annual  Report  filed  on  Form  10-K  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission on August 19, 1998.

*    Compensatory Plan

                                      -52-
<PAGE>
                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  and
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                               CREE RESEARCH, INC.

Date:  August 11, 1999

                                    By:   /s/ F. Neal Hunter
                                        ---------------------------------------
                                        F. Neal Hunter
                                        Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

    Signature                        Title                       Date
    ---------                        -----                       ----


   /s/ F. Neal Hunter          Chairman of the Board        August 11, 1999
- ----------------------------
F. Neal Hunter


   /s/ Cynthia B. Merrell      Chief Financial Officer      August 11, 1999
- ----------------------------
Cynthia B. Merrell


   /s/ Calvin H. Carter, Jr.   Director                     August 11, 1999
- ----------------------------
Calvin H. Carter, Jr., Ph.D.


   /s/ James E. Dykes
- ----------------------------   Director                     August 11, 1999
James E. Dykes


   /s/ Michael W. Haley        Director                     August 11, 1999
- ----------------------------
Michael W. Haley


   /s/ John W. Palmour         Director                     August 11, 1999
- ----------------------------
John W. Palmour, Ph.D


  /s/ Walter L. Robb
- ----------------------------   Director                     August 11, 1999
Walter L. Robb, Ph.D.


   /s/ Dolph W. von Arx        Director                     August 11, 1999
- ----------------------------
Dolph W. von Arx

                                      -53-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.(I)
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 3.1
<TEXT>


                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.1

                          ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                      OF
                             CREE RESEARCH, INC.


                                  ARTICLE I

      The name of the Corporation is Cree Research, Inc.


                                  ARTICLE II

      The period of duration of the Corporation shall be perpetual.


                                 ARTICLE III

      The purpose for which the  Corporation  is  organized  is to engage in any
lawful act or activity for which  corporations may be organized under Chapter 55
of the General Statutes of North Carolina.


                                  ARTICLE IV

The aggregate number of shares of capital stock which the Corporation shall have
authority to issue is 63,000,000  shares divided into two classes  consisting of
60,000,000  shares of Common  Stock  with a par value of $ 0.0025  per share and
3,000,000  shares of  Preferred  Stock with a par value of $0.01 per share.  The
Board of Directors  is  authorized  from time to time to  establish  one or more
series of Preferred  Stock and to determine  the  preferences,  limitations  and
relative  rights of the  Preferred  Stock before  issuance of any shares of that
class and of any series of  Preferred  Stock  before  issuance of shares of that
series.


                                  ARTICLE V

      The number of directors of the Corporation may be fixed by the bylaws.


                                  ARTICLE VI

      There  shall be no  preemptive  rights  with  respect to the shares of the
capital stock of the Corporation.


                                 ARTICLE VII

      No director of the Corporation  shall have personal  liability arising out
of an action  whether by or in the right of the  Corporation  or  otherwise  for
monetary damages for breach of his or her duty as a director; provided, however,
that the  foregoing  shall not limit or eliminate  the  personal  liability of a
director  with respect to (i) acts or omissions not made in good faith that such
director at the time of such breach knew or believed  were in conflict  with the
best interests of the  Corporation,  (ii) any liability under Section 55-8-33 of
the North  Carolina  General  Statutes  or any  successor  provision,  (iii) any
transaction  from which such director  derived an improper  personal  benefit or
(iv) acts or omissions  occurring prior to the date of the effectiveness of this
Article. As used in this Article,  the term "improper personal benefit" does not
include a director's  compensation or other incidental benefit for or on account
of his or


<PAGE>
her service as a director, officer, employee,  independent contractor,  attorney
or consultant of the Corporation.

      Furthermore,  notwithstanding the foregoing  provision,  in the event that
Section 55-2-02 or any other provision of the North Carolina General Statutes is
amended or enacted to permit  further  limitation or elimination of the personal
liability of a director,  the personal liability of the Corporation's  directors
shall be limited or eliminated to the fullest extent permitted by the applicable
law.

      This Article shall not affect a charter or bylaw  provision or contract or
resolution of the  Corporation  indemnifying or agreeing to indemnify a director
against personal liability. Any repeal or modification of this Article shall not
adversely  affect  any  limitation  hereunder  on the  personal  liability  of a
director  with  respect to acts or omissions  occurring  prior to such repeal or
modification.


                                 ARTICLE VIII

      The name and address of the incorporator is Fred D. Hutchison,  Suite 450,
2626 Glenwood Avenue, Raleigh, North Carolina 27608.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.(II)
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 3.2
<TEXT>



                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.2

                                    BYLAWS
                                      OF
                             CREE RESEARCH, INC.
                      (as amended through May 28, 1999)


                                  ARTICLE I
                                   OFFICES

     1.  Principal  Office.  The principal  office of the  Corporation  shall be
located in Durham County, North Carolina or such other place as is designated by
the Board of Directors.

     2. Registered Office. The registered office of the Corporation  required by
law to be  maintained  in the State of North  Carolina  may be, but need not be,
identical with the principal office.

     3. Other Offices.  The  Corporation  may have offices at such other places,
either within or without the State of North Carolina,  as the Board of Directors
may  from  time to time  determine  or as the  affairs  of the  Corporation  may
require.


                                  ARTICLE II
                           MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS

     1. Place of  Meetings.  All meetings of  shareholders  shall be held at the
principal  office of the  Corporation  or at such other place,  either within or
without the State of North Carolina, as shall be designated in the notice of the
meeting  or agreed  upon by a  majority  of the  shareholders  entitled  to vote
thereat.

     2. Annual Meeting.  The annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held at
the  principal  office of the  Corporation  at ten o'clock  (10:00) a.m., on the
first Tuesday in October of each year if not a legal  holiday,  and if such, the
next  secular  day  following,  for the  purpose of  electing  Directors  of the
Corporation  and for the  transaction  of such other business as may be properly
brought before the meeting close.

     3. Substitute  Annual  Meeting.  If the annual meeting shall not be held on
the day designated by these Bylaws, a substitute annual meeting may be called in
accordance  with the  provisions of paragraph 4 of this Article II. A meeting so
called shall be designated and treated for all purposes as the annual meeting.

     4. Special Meetings.  Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at
any time by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or by the Chairman.

     5. Notice of Meetings.

      (a)  Written or printed  notice  stating the time and place of the meeting
shall be  delivered  not less than ten (10) nor more than fifty (50) days before
the date  thereof,  either  personally or by mail, by or


<PAGE>
at the direction of the President,  the  Secretary,  or other person calling the
meeting,  to each  shareholder  of record  entitled to vote at such meeting.  If
mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United
States mail  addressed  to the  shareholder  at his address as it appears on the
record of shareholders of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid.

      (b) In the case of an annual or substitute  annual meeting,  the notice of
meeting need not specifically state the business to be transacted thereat unless
it is a matter,  other  than  election  of  Directors,  on which the vote of the
shareholders  is  expressly  required by the  provisions  of the North  Carolina
Business  Corporation  Act.  In the case of a  special  meeting,  the  notice of
meeting shall  specifically  state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting
is called.

      (c) When a meeting is  adjourned  for thirty (30) days or more,  notice of
the adjourned meeting shall be given as in the case of an original meeting. When
a meeting is adjourned for less than thirty (30) days in any one adjournment, it
is not  necessary  to give any  notice  of the time and  place of the  adjourned
meeting or of the business to be transacted  thereat other than by  announcement
at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.

     6. Voting Lists. At least ten (10) days before each meeting of shareholders
the  Secretary of the  Corporation  shall  prepare an  alphabetical  list of the
shareholders  entitled to vote at such meeting or any adjournment thereof,  with
the  address of and number of shares  held by each,  which list shall be kept on
file at the registered  office of the  Corporation for a period of ten (10) days
prior to such meeting,  and shall be subject to inspection by any shareholder at
any time during the usual business  hours.  This list shall also be produced and
kept  open at the time  and  place  of the  meeting  and  shall  be  subject  to
inspection by any shareholder during the whole time of the meeting.

     7. Quorum.

      (a) Unless  otherwise  provided  by law,  the holders of a majority of the
shares entitled to vote,  represented in person or by proxy,  shall constitute a
quorum at a meeting of  shareholders.  In the absence of a quorum at the opening
of any meeting of shareholders,  such meeting may be adjourned from time to time
by the vote of a majority of the shares voting on the motion to adjourn,  but no
other  business may be transacted  until and unless a quorum is present.  At any
adjourned  meeting at which a quorum is present,  any business may be transacted
which might have been transacted at the original meeting.

      (b) The  shareholders  at a  meeting  at which a  quorum  is  present  may
continue to do business  until  adjournment,  notwithstanding  the withdrawal of
sufficient shareholders to leave less than a quorum.

     8. Voting of Shares

      (a) Each  outstanding  share having voting rights shall be entitled to one
vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of shareholders.

      (b) Except in the  election  of  Directors,  the vote of a majority of the
shares voted on any matter at a meeting of shareholders,  duly held and at which
a quorum is present, shall be the act of the shareholders on that matter, unless
the vote by a greater  number is  required by law or by the charter or Bylaws of
the Corporation.


<PAGE>
      (c) Voting on all matters  except the  election of  Directors  shall be by
voice vote or by a show of hands  unless the holders of  one-tenth of the shares
represented  at the meeting shall,  prior to the voting on any matter,  demand a
ballot vote on that particular matter.

     9.  Proxies.  Shares may be voted either in person or by one or more agents
authorized  by a  written  proxy  executed  by the  shareholder  or by his  duly
authorized attorney-in-fact. A proxy is not valid after the expiration of eleven
(11)  months  from the date of its  execution,  unless the person  executing  it
specifies  therein the length of time for which it is to  continue in force,  or
limits its use to a particular meeting,  but no proxy, whether or not designated
as  irrevocable,  shall  be valid  after  ten  (10)  years  from the date of its
execution,  unless renewed or extended at any time before its expiration for not
more than ten (10) years from the date of such renewal or extension.

      10. Notice of Shareholder Business and Nominations.

      (a)   Annual Meetings of Shareholders.

      (i)  Nominations  of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the
Corporation  and the proposal of business to be considered  by the  shareholders
may be made at an annual meeting of shareholders:  (a) pursuant to the notice of
meeting  pursuant to Article  II,  Section 5 of these  Bylaws;  (b) by or at the
direction  of  the  Board  of  Directors;  or  (c)  by  any  shareholder  of the
Corporation  who was a  shareholder  of  record  at the time of giving of notice
provided for in this Bylaw  (Article II, Section 10), who is entitled to vote at
the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw.

     (ii) For  nominations  or other  business to be properly  brought before an
annual  meeting by a shareholder  pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph  (a)(i) of
this Bylaw,  the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to
the Secretary of the  Corporation  and such other  business must  otherwise be a
proper matter for shareholder action. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall
be  delivered  to  the  Secretary  at the  principal  executive  offices  of the
Corporation  not later than the close of business on the 60th  calendar  day nor
earlier  than the close of business on the 90th  calendar day prior to the first
anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting;  provided,  however, that in
the event that the date of the  annual  meeting  is more than 30  calendar  days
before or more than 60 calendar days after such anniversary  date, notice by the
shareholder  to be timely must be so  delivered  not  earlier  than the close of
business on the 90th  calendar  day prior to such  annual  meeting and not later
than the close of business on the later of the 60th  calendar  day prior to such
annual  meeting or the 10th  calendar  day  following  the calendar day on which
public  announcement  of  the  date  of  such  meeting  is  first  made  by  the
Corporation.  In no event shall the public  announcement of an adjournment of an
annual  meeting  commence a new time  period  for the giving of a  shareholder's
notice as described above. Such shareholder's  notice shall set forth: (a) as to
each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection
as a director  all  information  relating  to such person that is required to be
disclosed in  solicitations  of proxies for election of directors in an election
contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under
the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  "Exchange  Act") and Rule
14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the
proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to
any other business that the shareholder  proposes to bring before the meeting, a
brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting,  the
reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in
such business of such  shareholder  and the beneficial  owner,  if any, on whose
behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the shareholder giving the notice and
the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made
the name and address of such  shareholder,  as they appear on the  Corporation's
books,


<PAGE>
and of  such  beneficial  owner  and the  class  and  number  of  shares  of the
Corporation  which are owned  beneficially and of record by such shareholder and
such beneficial owner.

      (b)   Special Meetings of Shareholders.

      (i) Only  such  business  shall  be  conducted  at a  special  meeting  of
shareholders  as shall have been  brought  before the  meeting  pursuant  to the
notice of meeting under Article II, Section 5 of these Bylaws.  If directors are
to be elected at a special  meeting of  shareholders  pursuant  to the notice of
meeting,  nominations  of persons for election to the Board of Directors at such
meeting may be made (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (b)
by any shareholder of the Corporation who is a shareholder of record at the time
of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at
the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw.

      (ii) In the event a special  meeting  of  shareholders  is called  for the
purpose  of  electing  one or more  directors  to the  Board of  Directors,  any
shareholder may, pursuant to clause (b) above,  nominate a person or persons (as
the case may be) for election to such  position(s) as specified in the notice of
meeting,   if  the  shareholder  shall  have  delivered  notice  containing  the
information specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Bylaw to the Secretary at the
principal  executive  offices of the  Corporation  not earlier than the close of
business on the 90th  calendar day prior to such  special  meeting and not later
than the close of business on the later of the 60th  calendar  day prior to such
special  meeting or the 10th  calendar  day  following  the day on which  public
announcement  is  first  made of the  date  of the  special  meeting  and of the
nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no
event  shall the public  announcement  of an  adjournment  of a special  meeting
commence a new time period for the giving of a shareholder's notice as described
above.

      (c)   General.

      (i) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance  with the procedures
set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible  to serve as  directors  and only such
business  shall be  conducted  at a meeting of  shareholders  as shall have been
brought  before the meeting in accordance  with the procedures set forth in this
Bylaw.  Except as otherwise  provided by law, the Articles of  Incorporation  or
these  Bylaws,  the  Chairman  of the  meeting  shall have the power and duty to
determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the
meeting  was  made or  proposed,  as the  case may be,  in  accordance  with the
procedures  set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed  nomination or business
is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or
nomination shall be disregarded.

      (ii)  For  purposes  of  this  Bylaw,  "public  announcement"  shall  mean
disclosure in a press release  reported a national news service or in a document
publicly filed by the  Corporation  with the Securities and Exchange  Commission
pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

     (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a shareholder
shall also comply with all applicable  requirements  of the Exchange Act and the
rules and  regulations  thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this
Bylaw.  Nothing  in  this  Bylaw  shall  be  deemed  to  affect  any  rights  of
shareholders  to request  inclusion  of  proposals  in the  Corporation's  proxy
statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act.

      11.  Informal  Action by  Shareholders.  Any action  which is  required or
permitted to be taken at a meeting of the  shareholders  may be taken  without a
meeting if a consent in  writing,  setting  forth the


<PAGE>

action so taken,  shall be signed by all of the persons who would be entitled to
vote upon  such  action  at a  meeting,  and  filed  with the  Secretary  of the
Corporation  to be kept in the  Corporate  Minute  Book,  whether done before or
after the action so taken.  Such consent shall have the same force and effect as
a unanimous vote of shareholders.


                                 ARTICLE III
                                  DIRECTORS

     1. General  Powers.  The business and affairs of the  Corporation  shall be
managed  by the  Board of  Directors  or by such  committees  as the  Board  may
establish pursuant to these Bylaws.

     2.  Number,  Term  and  Qualification.  The  number  of  Directors  of  the
Corporation shall be not less than three (3), the exact number of which shall be
determined  from time to time by resolution of the  shareholders.  Each Director
shall  hold  office   until  his  death,   resignation,   retirement,   removal,
disqualification,  or his successor is elected and qualifies. Directors need not
be residents of the State of North Carolina or shareholders of the Corporation.

     3. Election of Directors. Except as provided in paragraph 6 of this Article
III, the Directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of  shareholders;  and
those  persons who  receive the highest  number of votes shall be deemed to have
been elected.  If any shareholder so demands,  election of Directors shall be by
ballot.

     4. Cumulative  Voting.  At each election for Directors,  every  shareholder
entitled to vote at such election  shall have the right to vote, in person or by
proxy,  the number of shares  standing of record in his name for as many persons
as there are  Directors  to be elected and for whose  election he has a right to
vote,  or to  cumulate  his vote by giving  one  candidate  as many votes as the
number of such Directors  multiplied by the number of his shares shall equal, or
by  distributing  such  votes on the same  principle  among  any  number of such
candidates.  This right of cumulative  voting shall not be exercised unless some
shareholder  or proxy holder  announces in open  meeting,  before the voting for
Directors  starts,  his  intention  so  to  vote   cumulatively;   and  if  such
announcement  is made, the chair shall declare that all shares  entitled to vote
have the right to vote  cumulatively  and shall  announce  the  number of shares
present  in person and by proxy and shall  thereupon  grant a recess of not less
than one hour nor more than four hours, as he shall determine,  or of such other
period of time as is unanimously then agreed upon.

     5. Removal. Directors may be removed from office with or without cause by a
vote of shareholders  holding a majority of the  outstanding  shares entitled to
vote at an election of Directors;  provided, however, unless the entire Board is
removed,  an  individual  Director  may not be  removed  if the number of shares
voting  against  the  removal  would be  sufficient  to elect a Director if such
shares were voted  cumulatively at an annual  election.  If any Directors are so
removed, new Directors may be elected at the same meeting.

     6. Vacancies.  A vacancy  occurring in the Board of Directors,  including a
vacancy created by an increase in the authorized number of Directors approved by
the shareholders in accordance with these Bylaws, may be filled by a majority of
the remaining  Directors,  though less than a quorum,  or by the sole  remaining
Director.  The shareholders may elect a Director at any time to fill any vacancy
not filled by the Directors.


<PAGE>
     7. Chairman.  There may be a Chairman of the Board of Directors  elected by
the Directors from their number at any meeting of the Board.  The Chairman shall
serve as an  officer  of the  Corporation  as  provided  in  Article V and shall
preside at all meetings of the  shareholders  and of the Board of Directors  and
perform such other duties as may be directed by the Board of Directors.

     8. Compensation.  The Board of Directors may compensate Directors for their
services as such and may provide  for the  payment of all  expenses  incurred by
Directors in attending regular and special meetings of the Board.

      9.  Executive and Other Committees.

      (a) The Board of  Directors,  by  resolution  adopted by a majority of the
number of  Directors  then in office,  may  designate  from among its members an
Executive Committee and one or more other committees,  each consisting of two or
more  directors,  and each of which,  to the extent  provided in the resolution,
shall have and may  exercise  all of the  authority  of the Board of  Directors,
except no such committee shall have authority as to the following matters:

            (i) The dissolution,  merger or  consolidation  of  the Corporation;
or the sale, lease or  exchange of  all or  substantially all of the property of
the Corporation.

            (ii)  The  designation  of any  such  committee  or the  filling  of
vacancies in the Board of Directors or on any such committee.

            (iii) The fixing of compensation of the Directors for serving on the
Board or on any such committee.

            (iv) The  amendment  or repeal  of the  Bylaws  or  adoption  of new
Bylaws.

            (v) The amendment or repeal of any  resolution of the Board which by
its terms shall not be so amendable or repealable.

      (b) Any such  committee,  or any  member  thereof,  may be  discharged  or
removed by action of the  majority of the Board of  Directors.  Any  resolutions
adopted  or other  action  taken by any such  committee  within the scope of the
authority  delegated  to it by the Board of  Directors  shall be deemed  for all
purposes to be adopted or taken by the Board of Directors.


                                  ARTICLE IV
                            MEETINGS OF DIRECTORS

     1. Regular  Meetings.  A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be
held  immediately  after,  and at the same  place  as,  the  annual  meeting  of
shareholders.  In addition,  the Board of Directors may provide,  by resolution,
the time and place,  either within or without the State of North  Carolina,  for
the holding of additional regular meetings.

     2. Special  Meetings.  Special  meetings of the Board of  Directors  may be
called by or at the request of the  Chairman of the Board,  if one has been duly
elected,  the President or any two  Directors.  Such meetings may be held either
within or without the State of North Carolina.


<PAGE>
      3.    Notice of Meetings.

      (a) The Secretary shall give notice, at least two days before the meeting,
by any usual  means of  communication  of any  regular  meeting  of the Board of
Directors.

      (b) The  person  or  persons  calling a  special  meeting  of the Board of
Directors  shall,  at least two days before the meeting,  give notice thereof by
any usual means of communication.  Such notice or waiver of notice shall specify
the business to be transacted at, or the purpose of, the meeting that is called.
Notice of an adjourned meeting need not be given if the time and place are fixed
at the meeting  adjourning and if the period of adjournment  does not exceed ten
(10) days in any one adjournment.

      (c)  Attendance  by a Director at a meeting  shall  constitute a waiver of
notice of such  meeting,  except  where a  Director  attends  a meeting  for the
express  purpose of objecting  to the  transaction  of any business  because the
meeting is not lawfully called or convened.

     4. Quorum.  A majority of the Directors in office shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors.

      5.    Manner of Acting.

      (a) Except as otherwise  provided in Paragraph 5, the act of a majority of
the Directors then in office shall be the act of the Board of Directors,  unless
a greater number is required by law, the charter of the Corporation,  or a Bylaw
adopted by the shareholders.

      (b) The vote of a majority of the number of Directors then in office shall
be required to adopt a resolution  constituting an Executive  Committee or other
committee  of the Board.  The vote of a majority of the  Directors  then holding
office  shall be  required  to  adopt,  amend or  repeal a Bylaw,  or to adopt a
resolution  dissolving the Corporation  without action by the  shareholders,  in
circumstances  authorized  by law.  Vacancies in the Board of  Directors  may be
filled as provided in paragraph 6 of Article III of these Bylaws.

     6. Informal  Action by Directors.  Action taken by the Directors or members
of a committee of the Board of Directors without a meeting is nevertheless Board
or  committee  action if written  consent to the action in question is signed by
all of the Directors or members of the committee,  as the case may be, and filed
with the minutes of the  proceedings  of the Board or  committee,  whether  done
before or after the action so taken.

     7.  Attendance  by  Telephone.  Any one or more  Directors  or members of a
committee may  participate  in a meeting of the Board or committee by means of a
conference telephone or similar  communications  device which allows all persons
participating in the meeting to hear each other,  and such  participation in the
meeting shall be deemed presence in person at such meeting.


                                  ARTICLE V
                                   OFFICERS

     1. Officers. The officers of the Corporation shall consist of a Chairman, a
President, a Secretary, a Treasurer and such other officers (including,  without
limitation, one or more Executive Vice



<PAGE>
Presidents, Vice Presidents,  Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers) as
may from time to time be appointed in accordance with these Bylaws. The Chairman
shall be chosen from among the directors.

     2. Appointment and Term. The Chairman, the President and any Executive Vice
Presidents  shall be appointed by the Board of Directors.  Other officers may be
appointed  either by the Board of  Directors  or by the  Chairman.  The Board of
Directors may appoint  officers at any regular meeting or at any special meeting
called  for such  purpose.  Each  officer  shall  hold  office  until his death,
resignation, retirement, removal or disqualification,  or until his successor is
appointed and qualifies.

     3. Removal.  Any officer or other agent appointed by the Board of Directors
may be removed by the Board,  with or without  cause,  and any  officer or other
agent  appointed by the  Chairman  may be removed  either by the Board or by the
Chairman,  with or without cause. Such removal shall be without prejudice to the
contract rights, if any, of the person so removed.

     4.  Chairman.  The  Chairman  shall be the chief  executive  officer of the
Corporation.  Subject to the direction of the Board of Directors,  he shall have
general executive charge, management and control of the properties, business and
operations of the Corporation with all such powers as may be reasonably incident
to such  responsibilities.  He may sign certificates for shares of capital stock
of the Corporation and may agree upon and execute leases,  contracts,  evidences
of indebtedness and other  obligations in the name of the  Corporation,  and any
deeds,  mortgages,  bonds or other instruments which may be lawfully executed on
behalf of the  Corporation,  except where required by law to be otherwise signed
or  executed  and  except  where the  signing  and  execution  thereof  shall be
delegated  by the Board of Directors  to some other  officer or agent.  He shall
have such other powers and duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by
the Board of Directors.

     5. President.  The President  shall be the chief  operating  officer of the
Corporation.  Subject to the direction of the Chairman,  he shall  supervise the
day-to-day  operation  of the  Corporation,  shall  act in a  general  executive
capacity and shall assist the Chairman in the  administration  and  operation of
the Corporation's  business and general supervision of its policies and affairs.
Unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, the President shall have the
authority to sign  certificates  for shares of capital stock of the  Corporation
and may agree upon and execute leases, contracts,  evidences of indebtedness and
other  obligations  in the name of the  Corporation,  and any deeds,  mortgages,
bonds or other  instruments  which  may be  lawfully  executed  on behalf of the
Corporation, except where required by law to be otherwise signed or executed and
except where the signing and  execution  thereof shall be delegated by the Board
of  Directors  to some  other  officer or agent.  Unless the Board of  Directors
otherwise  determines,  the President shall, in the absence of or because of the
inability to act of the Chairman, perform all duties of the Chairman and preside
at all  meetings of  shareholders  and (should he be a director) of the Board of
Directors.  He shall have such other  powers and duties as from time to time may
be assigned to him by the Board of Directors or the Chairman.

     6. Executive Vice Presidents.  The Executive Vice Presidents,  in the order
of their  appointment  unless  otherwise  determined  by the Board of Directors,
shall,  in the absence or  disability of the  President,  perform the duties and
exercise the powers of that office.  In addition,  they shall perform such other
duties  and have such other  powers as the Board of  Directors  or the  Chairman
shall prescribe.

     7. Vice Presidents.  The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties and have
such  powers  as the Board of  Directors  or the  Chairman  or  President  shall
prescribe.


<PAGE>
     8.  Secretary.  The Secretary  shall keep accurate  records of the acts and
proceedings of all meetings of shareholders,  directors and committees. He shall
give all notices  required  by law and by these  Bylaws.  He shall have  general
charge of the  corporate  books and records and of the  corporate  seal,  and he
shall affix the corporate seal to any lawfully executed instrument requiring it.
He shall have general charge of the stock transfer books of the  Corporation and
shall keep, at the registered or principal  office of the  Corporation or at the
offices  of any  transfer  agent  designated  by the  Corporation,  a record  of
shareholders showing the name and address of each shareholder and the number and
class of the shares held by each. He shall sign such  instruments as may require
his signature,  and, in general,  attest the signature or certify the incumbency
or  signature  of any other  officer of the  Corporation  and shall  perform all
duties  incident  to the office of  Secretary  and such  other  duties as may be
assigned from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chairman.

     9. Treasurer.  The Treasurer shall have custody of all funds and securities
belonging to the  Corporation  and shall  receive,  deposit or disburse the same
under the direction of the Chairman.  The Treasurer shall keep full and accurate
accounts of the finances of the  Corporation  in books  especially  provided for
that  purpose,   which  may  be  consolidated  or  combined  statements  of  the
Corporation and one or more of its  subsidiaries as appropriate,  that include a
balance  sheet as of the end of the fiscal year,  an income  statement  for that
year, and a statement of cash flows for the year unless that information appears
elsewhere in the financial statements.  If financial statements are prepared for
the Corporation on the basis of generally accepted  accounting  principles,  the
annual  financial  statements must also be prepared on that basis. The Treasurer
shall,  in general,  perform  all duties  incident to such office and such other
duties as may be  assigned  from time to time by the Board of  Directors  or the
Chairman.

      10. Assistant  Secretaries and Treasurers.  The Assistant  Secretaries and
Assistant Treasurers shall, in the absence or disability of the Secretary or the
Treasurer,  perform the respective  duties and exercise the respective powers of
those offices, and they shall, in general, perform such other duties as shall be
assigned to them by the Board of Directors or Chairman,  or by the  Secretary or
the Treasurer, respectively.

     11. Bonds.  The Board of Directors,  by resolution,  may require any or all
officers,  agents  and  employees  of  the  Corporation  to  give  bond  to  the
Corporation,  with sufficient sureties,  conditioned on the faithful performance
of the duties of their respective offices or positions,  and to comply with such
other conditions as may from time to time be required by the Board of Directors.

      12.  Action  With  Respect to  Securities  of Other  Corporations.  Unless
otherwise  directed by the Board of Directors,  the Chairman shall have power to
vote and otherwise act on behalf of the  Corporation,  in person or by proxy, at
any  meeting of  security  holders of or with  respect to any action of security
holders of any other  corporation in which this  Corporation may hold securities
and  otherwise to exercise any and all rights and powers which this  Corporation
may possess by reason of its ownership of securities in such other corporation.


                                  ARTICLE VI
                        CONTRACTS, LOANS AND DEPOSITS

     1. Contracts. The Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers,
or agent or  agents,  to enter into any  contract  or execute  and  deliver  any
instrument on behalf of the  Corporation,  and such  authority may be general or
confined to specific instances.


<PAGE>
     2. Loans.  No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation and no
evidence  of  indebtedness  shall be issued in its name unless  authorized  by a
resolution of the Board of Directors.  Such authority may be general or confined
to specific instances.

     3. Checks and Drafts. All checks, drafts or other orders for the payment of
money issued in the name of the  Corporation  shall be signed by such officer or
officers,  or agent or agents,  of the  Corporation  and in such manner as shall
from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.

     4. Deposits.  All funds of the Corporation not otherwise  employed shall be
deposited from time to time to the credit of the  Corporation in such depository
or depositories as the Board of Directors shall direct.


                                 ARTICLE VII
                  CERTIFICATES FOR SHARES AND OTHER TRANSFER

      1. Certificates for Shares.  Certificates  representing shares of the
Corporation  shall be  issued,  in such  form as the  Board of  Directors  shall
determine,  to every  shareholder  for the fully paid shares owned by him. These
certificates  shall be signed by the President or any Vice President or a person
who has been designated as the chief executive officer of the Corporation and by
the Secretary,  Assistant Secretary, Treasurer or Assistant Treasurer and sealed
with the seal of the Corporation or a facsimile  thereof.  The signatures of any
such officers upon a certificate may be facsimiles or may be engraved or printed
or  omitted  if  the  certificate  is  countersigned  by a  transfer  agent,  or
registered by a registrar,  other than the Corporation  itself or an employee of
the Corporation.  In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile or other
signature  has been  placed upon such  certificate  shall have ceased to be such
officer before such  certificate is issued,  it may be issued by the Corporation
with the same effect as if he were such  officer at the date of its issue.  They
shall  be  consecutively  numbered  or  otherwise  identified;  and the name and
address of the  persons to whom they are  issued,  with the number of shares and
date of issue, shall be entered on the stock transfer books of the Corporation.

     2.  Transfer  of  Shares.  Transfer  of  shares  shall be made on the stock
transfer books of the Corporation  only upon surrender of the  certificates  for
the shares sought to be  transferred by the record holder thereof or by his duly
authorized  agent,   transferee  or  legal   representative.   All  certificates
surrendered  for  transfer  shall be canceled  before new  certificates  for the
transferred shares shall be issued.

      3. Closing Transfer Books and Fixing Record Date.

     (a) For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to
vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment  thereof,  or entitled to
receive  payment  of any  dividend,  or in  order  to  make a  determination  of
shareholders  for any other proper  purpose,  the Board of Directors may provide
that the stock  transfer  books  shall be closed for a stated  period but not to
exceed,  in any case,  fifty (50) days.  If the stock  transfer  books  shall be
closed for he purpose of  determining  shareholders  entitled to notice of or to
vote at a meeting of  shareholders,  such books shall be closed for at least ten
(10) full days immediately preceding the date of such meeting.

      (b) In lieu of closing the stock  transfer  books,  the Board of Directors
may fix in  advance  a date as the  record  date for any such  determination  of
shareholders,  such date in any case to be not more



<PAGE>
than sixty (60) days and,  in case of a meeting of  shareholders,  not less than
ten (10)  full  days  immediately  preceding  the date on which  the  particular
action, requiring such determination of shareholders, is to be taken.

      (c) If the stock transfer books are not closed and no record date is fixed
for the  determination  of  shareholders  entitled  to notice of or to vote at a
meeting of  shareholders,  or of  shareholders  entitled to receive payment of a
dividend, the date on which notice of the meeting is mailed or the date on which
the resolution of the Board of Directors  declaring such dividend is adopted, as
the  case  may  be,  shall  be  the  record  date  for  such   determination  of
shareholders.

      (d) When a determination  of shareholders  entitled to vote at any meeting
of shareholders has been made as provided in this Section 3, such  determination
shall apply to any adjournment thereof regardless of its length except where the
determination  has been made through the closing of the stock transfer books and
the stated period of closing has expired.

     4. Lost Certificates.  The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of
a new share  certificate in place of a certificate  claimed to have been lost or
destroyed,  upon receipt of an  affidavit of such fact from the person  claiming
the loss or destruction.  When  authorizing  such issuance of a new certificate,
the Board may require the claimant to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as
it may direct to  indemnify  the  Corporation  against  loss from any claim with
respect to the certificate claimed to have been lost or destroyed;  or the Board
may,  by  resolution  reciting  that  the  circumstances  justify  such  action,
authorize the issuance of the new certificate without requiring such a bond.


                                 ARTICLE VIII
                      INDEMNIFICATION AND REIMBURSEMENT
                          OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS

     1.  Expenses  and  Liabilities:  The  Corporation  shall  have the power to
indemnify  any  present or former  director,  officer,  employee or agent of the
Corporation,  or any person who has served or is serving in such capacity at the
request of the Corporation in any other corporation, partnership, joint venture,
trust or other  enterprise  or as a trustee or  administrator  under an employee
benefit plan,  with respect to any liability or litigation  expenses,  including
reasonable  attorneys' fees,  incurred by any such person to the extent and upon
the terms and conditions provided by law. Therefore,  to the extent and upon the
terms and conditions provided by law, the Corporation shall so indemnify any and
all of its officers and directors  against  liability and  litigation  expenses,
including  reasonable  attorneys'  fees,  arising out of their status as such or
their  activities  in any  of  the  foregoing  capacities  (excluding,  however,
liability or litigation expenses which any of the foregoing may incur on account
of his or her activities which were, at the time taken, known or believed by him
or her to be clearly in conflict  with the best  interest  of the  Corporation).
Such officers and directors  shall be entitled to recover from the  Corporation,
and the Corporation  shall pay, all reasonable costs,  expenses,  and attorneys'
fees in connection  with the  enforcement of rights to  indemnification  granted
herein.  Any person who at any time after the  adoption of this bylaw  serves or
has  served  in  either  of the  aforesaid  capacities  for or on  behalf of the
Corporation  shall be deemed to be doing or to have done so in reliance upon and
as consideration for the right of  indemnification  provided herein.  Such right
shall inure to the benefit of the legal  representatives  of any such person and
shall not be  exclusive of any other rights to which such person may be entitled
apart from the provisions of this bylaw.


<PAGE>
      The  right  of  indemnification  hereinabove  provided  for  shall  not be
exclusive of any rights to which any such director,  officer,  employee or agent
may  otherwise  be  entitled  under any bylaw,  agreement,  vote of the Board of
Directors  or  shareholders  or  otherwise  with  respect  to any  liability  or
litigation expenses arising out of his activities in such capacity.

     2. Advance Payment of Expenses.  Expenses incurred by a director,  officer,
employee or agent in defending a civil or criminal  action,  suit or  proceeding
may be paid by the  Corporation  in  advance  of the final  disposition  of such
action,  suit or  proceeding,  as  authorized  by the Board of  Directors in the
specific  case,  upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director,
officer,  employee or agent to repay such amount  unless it shall  ultimately be
determined  that he or she is  entitled  to be  indemnified  by the  Corporation
against such expenses.  Notwithstanding  the above, the Corporation  shall, upon
receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director or officer involved to
repay the expenses  described in the first paragraph of this Article VIII unless
it shall  ultimately be determined  that he or she is entitled to be indemnified
by the  Corporation  against such expenses,  pay such expenses  incurred by such
director or officer in defending a civil or criminal action,  suit or proceeding
in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding.

     3. Insurance. The Corporation shall have the power to purchase and maintain
insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or
agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation
as a director,  officer, employee or agent of another corporation,  partnership,
joint venture,  trust or other enterprise or as a trustee or administrator under
an employee benefit plan against any liability asserted against him and incurred
by him in such  capacity,  or arising out of his status as such,  whether or not
the Corporation or other such  enterprise  would have the power to indemnify him
against such liability.


                                  ARTICLE IX
                              GENERAL PROVISIONS

     1. Dividends. The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the
Corporation may pay,  dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon
the terms and conditions provided by law and by its charter.

     2.  Seal.  The  corporate  seal of the  Corporation  shall  consist  of two
concentric  circles  between  which  is the name of the  Corporation  and in the
center of which is inscribed  "1987",  and such seal, as impressed on the margin
hereof, is hereby adopted as the corporate seal of the Corporation.

     3.  Waiver of Notice.  Whenever  any notice is  required to be given to any
shareholder  or Director  under the  provisions of the North  Carolina  Business
Corporation  Act or  under  the  provisions  of the  charter  or  Bylaws  of the
Corporation,  a waiver  thereof  in  writing  signed by the  person  or  persons
entitled to such notice,  whether before or after the time stated therein, shall
be equivalent to the giving of such notice.

     4. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the  Corporation  shall be determined by
the Board of Directors.

     5. Form of  Records.  Any  records  maintained  by the  Corporation  in the
regular  course of its business,  including its stock ledger,  books of account,
and minute  books,  may be kept on, or be in the form of, punch cards,  magnetic
tape,  photographs,  microphotographs,  or any other information storage



<PAGE>
device;  provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible
form within a reasonable  time. The Corporation  shall so convert any records so
kept upon the request of any person entitled to inspect the same.

     6. Amendments.  Except as otherwise  provided  herein,  these Bylaws may be
amended or repealed and new Bylaws may be adopted by the  affirmative  vote of a
majority of the Directors then holding office at any regular or special  meeting
of the Board of Directors or by  affirmative  vote of  shareholders  entitled to
exercise a majority of voting power of the Corporation.

      The Board of Directors shall have no power to adopt a Bylaw:

      (1) Changing the statutory requirement for a quorum of Directors or action
by Directors or changing the statutory  requirement for a quorum of shareholders
or action by shareholders;

      (2) Providing for the management of the Corporation  otherwise than by the
Board of Directors or the committees thereof;

      (3)   Increasing or decreasing the number of Directors; or

      (4) Classifying and staggering the election of Directors.

      No Bylaw adopted or amended by the shareholders may be altered or repealed
by the Board of Directors.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.1
<TEXT>

                                                                     EXHIBIT 4.1

    NUMBER                                                          SHARES
                                 [CREE LOGO]
CR
                 INCORPORATED UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF    SEE REVERSE FOR
                                NORTH CAROLINA                      CERTAIN
                                                                  DEFINITIONS
COMMON STOCK                                                   CUSIP 225447 10 1


THIS CERTIFIES THAT







is the registered holder of

          FULLY PAID AND NON-ASSESSABLE SHARES OF THE COMMON STOCK OF

                              CREE RESEARCH, INC.

transferable  on the books of the  Corporation by the holder hereof in person or
by  duly  authorized  attorney  upon  surrender  of  this  certificate  properly
endorsed.  This  certificate is not valid unless  countersigned  by the Transfer
Agent and registered by the Registrar.

   WITNESS the facsimile seal of the Corporation and the facsimile signatures of
its duly authorized officers.

   Dated:

   /s/ Adam H. Broome         [CREE CORPORATE SEAL]    /s/ Charles M. Swoboda
   Secretary                                           President

COUNTERSIGNED AND REGISTERED:
AMERICAN STOCK TRANSFER & TRUST COMPANY

(NEW YORK, NEW YORK)
TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR

- --------------------------- AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE


<PAGE>
                             CREE RESEARCH, INC.

THE CORPORATION IS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE  DIFFERENT  CLASSES AND SERIES OF CAPITAL
STOCK. THE CORPORATION WILL FURNISH ANY SHAREHOLDER UPON REQUEST, IN WRITING AND
WITHOUT CHARGE, A STATEMENT OF THE  DESIGNATIONS,  RELATIVE RIGHTS,  PREFERENCES
AND LIMITATIONS APPLICABLE TO EACH CLASS OF CAPITAL STOCK OF THE CORPORATION AND
OF THE VARIATIONS IN RIGHTS,  PREFERENCES  AND  LIMITATIONS  DETERMINED FOR EACH
SERIES AND THE AUTHORITY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO DETERMINE  VARIATIONS  FOR
FUTURE SERIES.

The following  abbreviations,  when used in the  inscription on the face of this
certificate,  shall  be  construed  as  though  they  were  written  out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

TEN COM - as tenants in common     UNIF GIFT MIN ACT -         Custodian
TEN ENT - as tenants by the                            (Cust)            (Minor)
          entirties                                    under Uniform Gifts to
JT TEN  - as joint tenants with                        Minors Act
          right of survivorship
          and not as tenants in                        (State)
          common

   Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED,                                     hereby sell, assign and

transfer unto

PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITIES OR OTHER
IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING ZIP CODE, OF ASSIGNEE)

- --------------------------------------------------------------------- shares of
the Common Stock represented by the within certificate, and do hereby
irrevocably constitute and appoint

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------- Attorney

to transfer  the said stock on the books of the  Corporation  with full power of
substitution in the premises.

Dated

                                        X-------------------------------------
                                        X-------------------------------------
                                    NOTICE:  THE SIGNATURE(S) TO THIS ASSIGNMENT
                                             MUST  CORRESPOND  WITH  THE NAME AS
                                             WRITTEN   UPON   THE  FACT  OF  THE
                                             CERTIFICATE  IN  EVERY  PARTICULAR,
                                             WITHOUT  ALTERATION OR ENLARGEMENT,
                                             OR ANY CHANGE WHATSOEVER.

                   Signature(s) Guaranteed:  -----------------------------------
                                             THE SIGNATURE(S) MUST BE GUARANTEED
                                             BY    AN     ELIGIBLE     GUARANTOR
                                             INSTITUTION  SUCH  AS A  SECURITIES
                                             BROKER/DEALER,   COMMERCIAL   BANK,
                                             TRUST COMPANY,  SAVINGS ASSOCIATION
                                             OR A CREDIT UNION  PARTICIPATING IN
                                             A  MEDALLION  PROGRAM  PURSUANT  TO
                                             RULE  17Ad-15  OF  THE   SECURITIES
                                             EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED

  KEEP THIS CERTIFICATE IN A SAFE PLACE. IF IT IS LOST, STOLEN, MUTILATED OR
DESTROYED, THE CORPORATION WILL REQUIRE A BOND OF INDEMNITY AS A CONDITION TO
                  THE ISSUANCE OF A REPLACEMENT CERTIFICATE.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.1
<TEXT>


                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.1

                             CREE RESEARCH, INC.
                             AMENDED AND RESTATED

                           EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN

                      (formerly the Cree Research, Inc.
                         Employee Stock Option Plan)

                          (As amended June 28, 1999)

                        ARTICLE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.1   The Plan is  designed,  for the  benefit of the  Company,  to attract  and
      retain for the Company personnel of exceptional  ability; to motivate such
      personnel  through added incentives to make a maximum  contribution to the
      Company;  to develop and maintain a highly competent  management team; and
      to  be  competitive   with  other  companies  with  respect  to  executive
      compensation.

1.2   Awards  under  the  Plan  may be made to  Participants  in the form of (i)
      Incentive Stock Options; (ii) Nonqualified Stock Options; (iii) Restricted
      Stock;  and  (iv)  Other  Stock-Based  Awards  and  such  other  forms  of
      equity-based  compensation  as may be provided and are  permissible  under
      this Plan and the law.

1.3   The Cree Research,  Inc.  Employee Stock Option Plan was initially adopted
      effective August 2, 1989, was amended and restated in the form of the Plan
      effective as of July 1, 1995 (the "Effective  Date"), and was subsequently
      amended or amended and restated  September  17,  1996,  September 1, 1997,
      December 7, 1998, March 31, 1999 and June 28, 1999.

                           ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS

      Except where the context otherwise  indicates,  the following  definitions
apply:

2.1   "Act" means the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,  as now in effect or as
      hereafter  amended.  All  citations  to  sections  of  the  Act  or  rules
      thereunder  are to such sections or rules as they may from time to time be
      amended or renumbered.

2.2   "Agreement" means the written agreement evidencing each Award granted to a
      Participant under the Plan.

2.3   "Award"  means an award granted to a  Participant  in accordance  with the
      provisions  of the Plan,  including,  but not limited to, a Stock  Option,
      Restricted  Stock,  Other  Stock-Based  Awards,  or any combination of the
      foregoing.

2.4   "Board" means the Board of Directors of Cree Research, Inc.

2.5   "Change in Control"  means the  occurrence  of an event defined in Section
      9.1 of the Plan.


<PAGE>
2.6   "Code"  means the Internal  Revenue  Code of 1986,  as now in effect or as
      hereafter  amended.  All  citations  to  sections  of the Code are to such
      sections as they may from time to time be amended or renumbered.

2.7   "Committee"  means the  Compensation  Committee of the Board or such other
      committee  consisting  of two or  more  members  of  the  Board  as may be
      appointed by the Board to  administer  this Plan  pursuant to Article III.
      Committee  members may also be appointed for such limited  purposes as may
      be provided by the Board.

2.8   "Company" means Cree Research, Inc., a North Carolina corporation, and its
      successors and assigns.  The term "Company"  shall include any corporation
      which is a member of a  controlled  group of  corporations  (as defined in
      Section  414(b) of the Code,  as modified  by Section  415(h) of the Code)
      which  includes  the  Company;  any  trade  or  business  (whether  or not
      incorporated)  which is under common control (as defined in Section 414(c)
      of the Code, as modified by Section  415(h) of the Code) with the Company;
      any  organization  (whether or not  incorporated)  which is a member of an
      affiliated  service group (as defined in Section 414(m) of the Code) which
      includes the Company;  and any other entity required to be aggregated with
      the Company pursuant to regulations under Section 414(o) of the Code. With
      respect to all  purposes of the Plan,  including,  but not limited to, the
      establishment, amendment, termination, operation and administration of the
      Plan,  Cree  Research,  Inc.  shall be  authorized to act on behalf of all
      other entities included within the definition of "Company".

2.9   "Disability"  means (I) with respect to a  Participant  who is eligible to
      participate in the Company's program of long-term disability insurance,  a
      condition  with respect to which the  Participant  is entitled to commence
      benefits under such program of long-term  disability  insurance,  and (ii)
      with respect to any  Participant  (including a Participant who is eligible
      to   participate  in  the  Company's   program  of  long-term   disability
      insurance), a disability as determined under procedures established by the
      Committee or in any Award.

2.10  "Discount  Stock Options" means  Nonqualified  Stock Options which provide
      for an exercise  price of less than the Fair Market  Value of the Stock at
      the date of the Award.

2.11  "Early  Retirement"  shall mean retirement from active employment with the
      Company,  with the  express  consent of the  Committee,  pursuant to early
      retirement provisions established by the Committee or in any Award.

2.12  "Eligible  Participant"  means any  employee of the  Company,  as shall be
      determined  by the  Committee,  as well  as any  other  person,  including
      directors,  whose  participation  the Committee  determines is in the best
      interest of the Company,  subject to limitations as may be provided by the
      Code, the Act or the Committee.

2.13 "Fair Market Value" means, with respect to any given day, the following:

     (i)  If the  Stock is not  listed  for  trading  on a  national  securities
          exchange  but is listed on the NASDAQ  National  Market  System or the
          NASDAQ  Small-Cap  Market System,  then the Fair Market Value shall be
          the last sale price of the Stock on the date of reference if a minimum
          of 100  shares are traded on such date or, if less than 100 shares are
          traded on such  date,  then the last sale price of the Stock as of the
          last date on which at least 100


<PAGE>
           shares were traded, in either case as reported by the NASDAQ National
           Market System or the NASDAQ Small-Cap Market System,  as the case may
           be.

      (ii)  If the  Stock is  listed  for  trading  on any  national  securities
            exchange,  then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing  price of
            the Stock on such  exchange on the date of reference if a minimum of
            100  shares  are traded on such date or, if less than 100 shares are
            traded on such  date,  then the  closing  price of the Stock on such
            exchange  as of the last  date on which at  least  100  shares  were
            traded.

      The Committee may establish an alternative method of determining Fair Mar-
      ket Value.

2.14  "Incentive  Stock Option" means a Stock Option granted under Article IV of
      the Plan, and as defined in Section 422 of the Code.

2.15  "Nonqualified  Stock Option" means a Stock Option  granted under Article V
      of the Plan.

2.16  "Normal  Retirement" shall mean retirement from active employment with the
      Company on or after age 65, or pursuant to such other  requirements as may
      be established by the Committee or in any Award.

2.17 "Option Grant Date" means, as to any Stock Option, the latest of:

      (a)   the date on which the  Committee  takes  action to grant the Stock
            Option to the Participant;

      (b)   the date the  Participant  receiving  the Stock  Option  becomes  an
            employee  of the  Company,  to the  extent  employment  status  is a
            condition of the grant or a requirement of the Code or the Act; or

      (c)   such  other  date  (later  than the dates  described  in (a) and (b)
            above) as the Committee may designate.

2.18  "Participant"  means an  Eligible  Participant  to whom an Award  has been
      granted and who has entered into an Agreement evidencing the Award.

2.19  "Plan" means the Cree Research, Inc. Equity Compensation Plan as set forth
      herein, and, as further amended or amended and restated from time to time.

2.20  "Restricted  Stock" means an Award of Stock under Article VII of the Plan,
      which Stock is issued with the  restriction  that the holder may not sell,
      transfer, pledge, or assign such Stock and with such other restrictions as
      the  Committee,  in its sole  discretion,  may impose,  including  without
      limitation, any restriction on the right to vote such Stock, and the right
      to receive any cash dividends,  which restrictions may lapse separately or
      in combination at such time or times, in installments or otherwise, as the
      Committee may deem appropriate.

2.21  "Restriction  Period" means the period  commencing on the date an Award of
      Restricted Stock is granted and ending on such date as the Committee shall
      determine.

2.22  "Retirement" shall mean Early Retirement or Normal Retirement.


<PAGE>
2.23  "Stock" means shares of the Common Stock of Cree Research, Inc., par value
      $.0025 per share, as may be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section
      3.10.

2.24  "Stock  Option"  means an Award  under  Article  IV or V of the Plan of an
      option to purchase  Stock. A Stock Option may be either an Incentive Stock
      Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option.

2.25  "Termination of Employment"  means the  discontinuance  of employment of a
      Participant with the Company for any reason.  The determination of whether
      a Participant has  discontinued  employment shall be made by the Committee
      in its discretion.  In determining whether a Termination of Employment has
      occurred,  the  Committee  may provide  that  service as a  consultant  or
      service with a business  enterprise in which the Company has a significant
      ownership  interest shall be treated as employment  with the Company.  The
      Committee  shall have the discretion,  exercisable  either at the time the
      Award is granted or at the time the Participant terminates employment,  to
      establish as a provision  applicable to the exercise of one or more Awards
      that during the limited period of exercisability  following Termination of
      Employment, the Award may be exercised not only with respect to the number
      of  shares  of  Stock  for  which  it is  exercisable  at the  time of the
      Termination of Employment but also with respect to one or more  subsequent
      installments  for which the Award  would have become  exercisable  had the
      Termination of Employment not occurred.

                         ARTICLE III - ADMINISTRATION

3.1   This Plan shall be  administered by the Committee.  The Committee,  in its
      discretion,  may delegate to one or more of its members such of its powers
      as it deems  appropriate.  The  Committee  also may limit the power of any
      member to the  extent  necessary  to comply  with any law.  Members of the
      Committee shall be appointed  originally,  and as vacancies  occur, by the
      Board,  to serve at the pleasure of the Board.  The Board may serve as the
      Committee,  if by the terms of the Plan all Board  members  are  otherwise
      eligible to serve on the Committee.

3.2   The  Committee  shall meet at such times and  places as it  determines.  A
      majority of its members shall  constitute a quorum,  and the decision of a
      majority  of those  present  at any  meeting  at which a quorum is present
      shall constitute the decision of the Committee. A memorandum signed by all
      of its members  shall  constitute  the decision of the  Committee  without
      necessity, in such event, for holding an actual meeting.

3.3   The Committee  shall have the exclusive  right to interpret,  construe and
      administer  the Plan, to select the persons who are eligible to receive an
      Award,  and to act in all matters  pertaining  to the granting of an Award
      and the contents of the Agreement evidencing the Award,  including without
      limitation,  the  determination of the number of Stock Options,  shares of
      Stock subject to an Award, and the form, terms, conditions and duration of
      each Award,  and any amendment  thereof  consistent with the provisions of
      the Plan. All acts,  determinations and decisions of the Committee made or
      taken  pursuant to grants of  authority  under the Plan or with respect to
      any  questions   arising  in  connection  with  the   administration   and
      interpretation  of the Plan,  including the severability of any and all of
      the provisions  thereof,  shall be conclusive,  final and binding upon all
      Participants, Eligible Participants and their beneficiaries.


<PAGE>
3.4   The Committee may adopt such rules,  regulations and procedures of general
      application for the administration of this Plan, as it deems appropriate.

3.5   The number of shares of Stock which are available for Award under the Plan
      shall be Five Million Four Hundred Eighty Thousand  (5,480,000) shares* or
      any larger  number of shares of Stock  that,  subsequent  to the date this
      Plan is adopted,  may be  authorized  for  issuance by the  Company.  Such
      shares of Stock  shall be made  available  from  authorized  and  unissued
      shares.  If, for any  reason,  any  shares of Stock  awarded or subject to
      purchase under the Plan are not delivered or purchased,  or are reacquired
      by the Company, for reasons including, but not limited to, a forfeiture of
      Restricted  Stock or  termination,  expiration or  cancellation of a Stock
      Option, or any other termination of an Award without payment being made in
      the form of Stock,  whether or not Restricted  Stock, such shares of Stock
      shall  not be  charged  against  the  aggregate  number of shares of Stock
      available for Awards under the Plan,  and may again be available for Award
      under the Plan. (*As adjusted for stock split effective July 26, 1999.)

3.6   Each  Award  granted  under  the Plan  shall  be  evidenced  by a  written
      Agreement.  Each  Agreement  shall  be  subject  to  and  incorporate,  by
      reference or otherwise,  the applicable  terms and conditions of the Plan,
      and any other terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as may
      be imposed by the Committee.

3.7   The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificates for
      shares of Stock prior to:

      (a)   the  listing  of such  shares on any stock  exchange  on which the
            Stock may then be listed; and

      (b)   the completion of any  registration or  qualification of such shares
            of Stock under any federal or state law, or any ruling or regulation
            of any government  body which the Company shall,  in its discretion,
            determine to be necessary or advisable.

3.8   All  certificates  for shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall also
      be subject to such  stop-transfer  orders  and other  restrictions  as the
      Committee  may deem  advisable  under the  rules,  regulations,  and other
      requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange
      upon which the Stock is then  listed and any  applicable  federal or state
      laws,  and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be placed on any
      such certificates to make appropriate  reference to such restrictions.  In
      making  such  determination,  the  Committee  may rely upon an  opinion of
      counsel for the Company.

3.9   Subject to the  restrictions  on Restricted  Stock, as provided in Article
      VII of the Plan and in the Restricted  Stock  Agreement,  each Participant
      who receives an Award of Restricted  Stock shall have all of the rights of
      a shareholder with respect to such shares of Stock, including the right to
      vote the shares to the extent,  if any, such shares  possess voting rights
      and  receive  dividends  and  other  distributions.   Except  as  provided
      otherwise in the Plan or in an Agreement,  no Participant  awarded a Stock
      Option shall have any right as a shareholder with respect to any shares of
      Stock  covered by his or her Stock Option prior to the date of issuance to
      him or her of a certificate or certificates for such shares of Stock.

3.10  If any reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock split-up,
      stock  dividend,   or  consolidation   of  shares  of  Stock,   merger  or
      consolidation  of the Company or sale or other


<PAGE>
     disposition  by the  Company of all or a portion of its  assets,  any other
     change in the Company's corporate  structure, or any distribution to share-
     holders other  than a cash dividend  results in the  outstanding  shares of
     Stock, or any  securities  exchanged therefor or  received  in their place,
     being exchanged for a different number or class of shares of Stock or other
     securities of the Company, or for shares of Stock or other  securities  of
     any other  corporation;  or new, different  or  additional  shares or other
     securities of the Company or of any other corporation being received by the
     holders of outstanding shares of Stock, then equitable adjustments shall be
     made by the Committee in:

      (a)   the  limitation on the aggregate  number of shares of Stock that may
            be awarded as set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan;

      (b)   the number  and class of Stock that may be subject to an Award,  and
            which  have not been  issued  or  transferred  under an  outstanding
            Award;

      (c)   the purchase  price to be paid per share of Stock under  outstanding
            Stock Options; and

      (d)   the terms,  conditions or  restrictions  of any Award and Agreement,
            including the price payable for the acquisition of Stock;  provided,
            however, that all adjustments made as the result of the foregoing in
            respect of each  Incentive  Stock  Option shall be made so that such
            Stock Option  shall  continue to be an Incentive  Stock  Option,  as
            defined in Section 422 of the Code.

3.11  In addition to such other  rights of  indemnification  as they may have as
      directors  or as members of the  Committee,  the members of the  Committee
      shall be indemnified by the Company against reasonable expenses, including
      attorney's fees, actually and necessarily  incurred in connection with the
      defense of any  action,  suit or  proceeding,  or in  connection  with any
      appeal  therein,  to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of
      any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan or
      any Award  granted  thereunder,  and against  all amounts  paid by them in
      settlement  thereof,  provided such  settlement is approved by independent
      legal counsel selected by the Company,  or paid by them in satisfaction of
      a judgment or settlement in any such action, suit or proceeding, except as
      to matters as to which the Committee  member has been negligent or engaged
      in misconduct in the performance of his duties;  provided,  that within 60
      days after institution of any such action, suit or proceeding, a Committee
      member  shall in writing  offer the  Company the  opportunity,  at its own
      expense, to handle and defend the same.

3.12  The Committee may require each person  purchasing shares of Stock pursuant
      to a Stock  Option or other Award under the Plan to represent to and agree
      with the  Company  in  writing  that he is  acquiring  the shares of Stock
      without a view to  distribution  thereof and/or that he has met such other
      requirements  as the  Committee  determines  may  be  applicable  to  such
      purchase. The certificates for such shares of Stock may include any legend
      which the  Committee  deems  appropriate  to reflect any  restrictions  on
      transfer.

3.13  The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in performance based
      criteria or in the terms and  conditions of other Awards in recognition of
      unusual or  nonrecurring  events  affecting  the Company or its  financial
      statements  or changes  in  applicable  laws,  regulations  or  accounting
      principles.  The Committee may correct any defect,  supply any omission or
      reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Agreement in the manner and
      to the  extent it shall deem  desirable  to carry it into  effect.  In the
      event the Company shall assume outstanding  employee benefit awards



<PAGE>
      or the right or obligation to make  future such awards in  connection with
      the acquisition of another  corporation or  business entity, the Committee
      may, in its discretion, make such adjustments in the terms of Awards under
      the Plan as it shall deem appropriate.

3.14  The Committee shall have full power and authority to determine whether, to
      what extent and under what  circumstances,  any Award shall be canceled or
      suspended if (a) the  Participant,  without the consent of the  Committee,
      while  employed by the Company or after  termination  of such  employment,
      becomes  associated  with,  employed by, renders  services to, or owns any
      interest in, other than any insubstantial  interest,  as determined by the
      Committee,  any  business  that is in  competition  with  the  Company  as
      determined by the Committee in its  discretion;  or (b) is terminated  for
      cause as determined by the Committee in its discretion.

                     ARTICLE IV - INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS

4.1   Each  provision  of this  Article IV and of each  Incentive  Stock  Option
      granted  hereunder shall be construed in accordance with the provisions of
      Section  422 of the  Code,  and any  provision  hereof  that  cannot be so
      construed shall be disregarded.

4.2   Incentive Stock Options shall be granted only to Eligible Participants who
      are in the active  employment of the Company,  each of whom may be granted
      one or more such  Incentive  Stock  Options  for a reason  related  to his
      employment at such time or times determined by the Committee following the
      Effective  Date  through  the date which is ten (10) years  following  the
      Effective Date, subject to the following conditions:

      (a)   The  Incentive  Stock Option price per share of Stock shall be set
            in the  Agreement,  but  shall  not be less  than 100% of the Fair
            Market  Value  of the  Stock  on the  Option  Grant  Date.  If the
            Eligible  Participant owns more than 10% of the outstanding  Stock
            (as  determined  pursuant  to  Section  424(d) of the Code) on the
            Option  Grant Date,  the  Incentive  Stock  Option price per share
            shall not be less than 110% of the Fair Market  Value of the Stock
            on the Option Grant Date.

      (b)   Subject  to  any   conditions   on  exercise   set  forth  in  the
            corresponding   Agreement,  the  Incentive  Stock  Option  may  be
            exercised  in whole or in part from time to time  within  ten (10)
            years from the Option  Grant Date (five (5) years if the  Eligible
            Participant  owns more than 10% of the Stock on the  Option  Grant
            Date),  or  such  shorter  period  as  may  be  specified  by  the
            Committee  in  the  Award;  provided,   that  in  any  event,  the
            Incentive  Stock  Option  shall lapse and cease to be  exercisable
            upon a Termination  of Employment or within such period  following
            a Termination  of  Employment as shall have been  specified in the
            Incentive  Stock Option  Agreement,  which period shall not exceed
            three months unless:

            (i)   employment  shall  have  terminated  as a  result  of death or
                  Disability,  in which event such  period  shall not exceed one
                  year after the date of death or Disability; or

            (ii)  death  shall  have  occurred   following  a   Termination   of
                  Employment  and while the  Incentive  Stock  Option  was still
                  exercisable,  in which event such period  shall not exceed one
                  year after the date of death;


<PAGE>
            provided,  further,  that such  period  following a  Termination  of
            Employment shall in no event extend the original  exercise period of
            the Incentive Stock Option.

      (c)   To the extent the aggregate Fair Market Value,  determined as of the
            Option  Grant  Date,  of the shares of Stock  with  respect to which
            Incentive   Stock  Options   (determined   without  regard  to  this
            subsection)  are first  exercisable  during any calendar year by any
            Eligible Participant exceeds $100,000, such options shall be treated
            as Nonqualified Stock Options granted under Article V.

      (d)   The  Committee may adopt any other terms and  conditions  which it
            determines  should be imposed for the  Incentive  Stock  Option to
            qualify  under Section 422 of the Code, as well as any other terms
            and   conditions  not   inconsistent   with  this  Article  IV  as
            determined  by the  Committee.  If, for any reason,  an  Incentive
            Stock Option fails to meet the  requirements of Section 422 of the
            Code,  the Option  shall  automatically  be deemed a  Nonqualified
            Stock Option granted under Article V herein.

      (e)   The maximum  number of shares of Stock  subject to  Incentive  Stock
            Option  Awards  hereunder  shall  be  the  total  number  of  shares
            authorized for issuance under the Plan pursuant to Section 3.5.

4.3   The  Committee  may at any time  offer to buy out for a  payment  in cash,
      Stock or Restricted  Stock an Incentive Stock Option  previously  granted,
      based on such terms and  conditions as the Committee  shall  establish and
      communicate to the Participant at the time that such offer is made.

4.4   If the  Incentive  Stock Option  Agreement so provides,  the Committee may
      require  that all or part of the  shares  of Stock to be  issued  upon the
      exercise of an Incentive  Stock  Option shall take the form of  Restricted
      Stock, which shall be valued on the date of exercise, as determined by the
      Committee,  on the basis of the Fair Market Value of such Restricted Stock
      determined  without regard to the deferral  limitations  and/or forfeiture
      restrictions involved.

                    ARTICLE V - NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS

5.1   One or more Stock Options may be granted as Nonqualified  Stock Options to
      Eligible  Participants  to purchase  shares of Stock at such time or times
      determined by the Committee,  following the Effective Date, subject to the
      terms and conditions set forth in this Article V.

5.2   The  Nonqualified   Stock  Option  price  per  share  of  Stock  shall  be
      established  in the Agreement and may be less than or greater than 100% of
      the Fair Market Value at the time of the grant.

5.3   The  Nonqualified  Stock  Option may be  exercised in full or in part from
      time to time within such period as may be specified by the Committee or in
      the Agreement; provided, that, in any event, the Nonqualified Stock Option
      shall lapse and cease to be  exercisable  upon a Termination of Employment
      or within such period  following a Termination of Employment as shall have
      been specified in the Nonqualified  Stock Option  Agreement,  which period
      shall not exceed three months unless:


<PAGE>
      (i)   employment shall have terminated as a result of death or Disability,
            in which event such period  shall not exceed one year after the date
            of death or Disability; or

     (ii)   death shall have occurred following a Termination of Employment  and
            while the Nonqualified Stock Option was still exercisable,  in which
            event such period shall not exceed one year after the date of death;

      provided,  further, that such period following a Termination of Employment
      shall in no event extend the original  exercise period of the Nonqualified
      Stock Option.

5.4   The  Nonqualified  Stock Option  Agreement may include any other terms and
      conditions  not  inconsistent  with this  Article V or in  Article  VI, as
      determined by the Committee.

                   ARTICLE VI - INCIDENTS OF STOCK OPTIONS

6.1   Each Stock Option shall be granted  subject to such terms and  conditions,
      if any, not  inconsistent  with this Plan,  as shall be  determined by the
      Committee,   including  any  provisions  as  to  continued  employment  as
      consideration  for the grant or  exercise  of such  Stock  Option  and any
      provisions  which  may  be  advisable  to  comply  with  applicable  laws,
      regulations or rulings of any governmental authority.

6.2   Except as provided  below, a Stock Option shall be exercisable  during the
      lifetime  of  the  Participant  only  by  him or  his  guardian  or  legal
      representative and shall not be transferable by the Participant other than
      (i) by will or by the laws of  descent  and  distribution,  or (ii) to the
      extent  otherwise  allowed by  applicable  law,  pursuant  to a  qualified
      domestic  relations  order  as  defined  by  the  Code  and  the  Employee
      Retirement  Income  Security  Act  of  1974,  as  amended,  or  the  rules
      thereunder.  However,  the Committee may, in its sole  discretion,  either
      pursuant to an Agreement or otherwise,  permit a Participant to transfer a
      Nonqualified  Stock  Option  by gift or other  donative  transfer  without
      payment of consideration,  conditioned upon and subject to compliance with
      all applicable law (including, but not limited to, securities law).

6.3   Shares of Stock  purchased  upon  exercise of a Stock Option shall be paid
      for in such  amounts,  at such  times  and  upon  such  terms  as shall be
      determined by the Committee, subject to limitations set forth in the Stock
      Option  Agreement.  Without  limiting the  foregoing,  the  Committee  may
      establish payment terms for the exercise of Stock Options which permit the
      Participant to deliver shares of Stock,  or other evidence of ownership of
      Stock  satisfactory to the Company,  with a Fair Market Value equal to the
      Stock Option price as payment.

6.4   No cash dividends  shall be paid on shares of Stock subject to unexercised
      Stock Options. The Committee may provide,  however,  that a Participant to
      whom a Stock Option has been granted which is  exercisable  in whole or in
      part at a future  time for shares of Stock shall be entitled to receive an
      amount per share equal in value to the cash  dividends,  if any,  paid per
      share on issued and  outstanding  Stock,  as of the dividend  record dates
      occurring  during  the period  between  the date of the grant and the time
      each such share of Stock is  delivered  pursuant to exercise of such Stock
      Option.  Such amounts (herein called "dividend  equivalents")  may, in the
      discretion of the Committee, be:


<PAGE>
      (a)   paid in cash or Stock  either  from time to time prior to, or at the
            time of the delivery of, such Stock, or upon expiration of the Stock
            Option if it shall not have been fully exercised; or

      (b)   converted into  contingently  credited shares of Stock, with respect
            to which dividend  equivalents may accrue,  in such manner,  at such
            value,  and  deliverable at such time or times, as may be determined
            by the Committee.

      Such Stock, whether delivered or contingently  credited,  shall be charged
      against the limitations set forth in Section 3.5.

6.5   The Committee,  in its sole discretion,  may authorize payment of interest
      equivalents on dividend  equivalents which are payable in cash at a future
      time.

6.6   In the event of Disability or death,  the  Committee,  with the consent of
      the Participant or his legal  representative,  may authorize  payment,  in
      cash or in Stock,  or partly in cash and partly in Stock, as the Committee
      may direct,  of an amount equal to the  difference at the time between the
      Fair Market  Value of the Stock  subject to a Stock  Option and the option
      price in consideration of the surrender of the Stock Option.

6.7   If a Participant  is required to pay to the Company an amount with respect
      to income and employment tax  withholding  obligations in connection  with
      exercise of a  Nonqualified  Stock Option,  and/or with respect to certain
      dispositions  of Stock  acquired  upon the exercise of an Incentive  Stock
      Option,  the Committee,  in its discretion and subject to such rules as it
      may adopt, may permit the Participant to satisfy the obligation,  in whole
      or in part, by making an irrevocable  election that a portion of the total
      Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock subject to the Nonqualified Stock
      Option and/or with respect to certain  dispositions of Stock acquired upon
      the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option,  be paid in the form of cash in
      lieu of the issuance of Stock and that such cash payment be applied to the
      satisfaction  of the  withholding  obligations.  The amount to be withheld
      shall not  exceed  the  statutory  minimum  federal  and state  income and
      employment   tax  liability   arising  from  the  Stock  Option   exercise
      transaction.

6.8   The Committee  may permit the  voluntary  surrender of all or a portion of
      any  Stock  Option  granted  under  the  Plan to be  conditioned  upon the
      granting  to the  Participant  of a new  Stock  Option  for the  same or a
      different  number of shares of Stock as the Stock Option  surrendered,  or
      may require such  surrender  as a condition  precedent to a grant of a new
      Stock Option to such  Participant.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan,
      such new Stock Option shall be exercisable at the such price,  during such
      period and on such other  terms and  conditions  as are  specified  by the
      Committee at the time the new Stock Option is granted. Upon surrender, the
      Stock  Options  surrendered  shall be  canceled  and the  shares  of Stock
      previously subject to them shall be available for the grant of other Stock
      Options.

                        ARTICLE VII - RESTRICTED STOCK

7.1   Restricted  Stock  Awards  may  be  made  to  certain  Participants  as an
      incentive for the  performance  of future  services  that will  contribute
      materially  to  the  successful  operation  of  the  Company.   Awards  of
      Restricted  Stock may be made  either  alone,  in addition to or in tandem
      with other Awards granted under the Plan and/or cash payments made outside
      of the Plan.


<PAGE>
7.2   With respect to Awards of Restricted Stock, the Committee shall:

      (a)   determine the purchase price, if any, to be paid for such Restricted
            Stock, which may be equal to or less than par value and may be zero,
            subject  to  such  minimum  consideration  as  may  be  required  by
            applicable law;

      (b)   determine the length of the Restriction Period;

      (c)   determine any  restrictions  applicable to the Restricted Stock such
            as  service  or  performance,  other  than  those  set forth in this
            Article VII;

      (d)   determine  if the  restrictions  shall  lapse  as to all  shares  of
            Restricted  Stock at the end of the  Restriction  Period  or as to a
            portion of the shares of Restricted Stock in installments during the
            Restriction Period; and

      (e)   determine if dividends  and other  distributions  on the  Restricted
            Stock are to be paid  currently  to the  Participant  or paid to the
            Company for the account of the Participant.

7.3   Awards of Restricted Stock must be accepted within a period of 60 days, or
      such  shorter  period  as  the  Committee  may  specify,  by  executing  a
      Restricted Stock Agreement and paying whatever price, if any, is required.
      The prospective  recipient of a Restricted  Stock Award shall not have any
      rights with respect to such Award,  unless such  recipient  has executed a
      Restricted Stock Agreement and has delivered a fully executed copy thereof
      to the Committee, and has otherwise complied with the applicable terms and
      conditions of such Award.

7.4   Except when the Committee determines  otherwise,  or as otherwise provided
      in the Restricted Stock Agreement,  if a Participant terminates employment
      with the Company for any reason before the  expiration of the  Restriction
      Period,  all shares of Restricted Stock still subject to restriction shall
      be forfeited by the Participant and shall be reacquired by the Company.

7.5   Except as otherwise provided in this  Article VII or in the  corresponding
      Agreement,  no shares of Restricted Stock received by a Participant  shall
      be  sold, exchanged,  transferred,  pledged,  hypothecated  or   otherwise
      disposed of during the Restriction Period.

7.6   To the extent not otherwise  provided in a Restricted Stock Agreement,  in
      cases  of  death,   Disability  or  Retirement  or  in  cases  of  special
      circumstances,  the  committee,  if  it  finds  that  a  waiver  would  be
      appropriate,  may elect to waive any or all  remaining  restrictions  with
      respect to such Participant's Restricted Stock.

7.7   In the event of hardship or other special  circumstances  of a Participant
      whose  employment  with  the  Company  is  involuntarily  terminated,  the
      Committee may waive in whole or in part any or all remaining  restrictions
      with respect to any or all of the Participant's Restricted Stock, based on
      such factors and criteria as the Committee may deem appropriate.

7.8   The certificates representing shares of Restricted Stock may either:


<PAGE>
      (a)   be held in  custody  by the  Company  until the  Restriction  Period
            expires  or until  restrictions  thereon  otherwise  lapse,  and the
            Participant  shall deliver to the Company a stock power  endorsed in
            blank relating to the Restricted Stock; and/or

      (b)   be  issued  to the  Participant  and  registered  in the name of the
            Participant,  and shall bear an appropriate  restrictive  legend and
            shall be subject to appropriate stop-transfer orders.

7.9   Except  as  provided  in this  Article  VII,  a  Participant  receiving  a
      Restricted  Stock  Award  shall  have,  with  respect  to  the  shares  of
      Restricted  Stock covered by any Award, all of the rights of a shareholder
      of the Company,  including the right to vote the shares to the extent,  if
      any,  such  shares  possess  voting  rights and the right to  receive  any
      dividends; provided, however, the Committee may require that any dividends
      on such shares of  Restricted  Stock shall be  automatically  deferred and
      reinvested in additional Restricted Stock subject to the same restrictions
      as  the  underlying  Award,  or  may  require  that  dividends  and  other
      distributions  on  Restricted  Stock  shall be paid to the Company for the
      account of the Participant. The Committee shall determine whether interest
      shall be paid on such  amounts,  the rate of any  such  interest,  and the
      other terms applicable to such amounts.

7.10  If and when the Restriction  Period expires without a prior  forfeiture of
      the  Restricted  Stock subject to such  Restriction  Period,  unrestricted
      certificates  for such  shares  shall  be  delivered  to the  Participant;
      provided,  however, that the Committee may cause such legend or legends to
      be  placed on any such  certificates  as it may deem  advisable  under the
      rules,  regulations and other  requirements of the Securities and Exchange
      Commission and any applicable federal or state law.

7.11  In order to  better  ensure  that  Award  payments  actually  reflect  the
      performance  of the  Company  and  the  service  of the  Participant,  the
      Committee   may   provide,   in  its   sole   discretion,   for  a  tandem
      performance-based  or other Award  designed to guarantee a minimum  value,
      payable in cash or Stock to the  recipient  of a  Restricted  Stock Award,
      subject to such performance,  future service, deferral and other terms and
      conditions as may be specified by the Committee.

                   ARTICLE VIII - OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS

8.1   Other awards that are valued in whole or in part by  reference  to, or are
      otherwise based on, Stock ("Other Stock-Based Awards"),  including without
      limitation, convertible preferred stock, convertible debentures, exchange-
      able securities,  phantom stock and Stock awards or options valued by ref-
      erence to book value  or performance,  may  be granted either alone  or in
      addition  to or in  tandem with Stock  Options or Restricted Stock granted
      under the Plan and/or cash awards made outside of the Plan.

      Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee  shall have authority
      to determine  the Eligible  Participants  to whom and the time or times at
      which such Awards shall be made,  the number of shares of Stock subject to
      such Awards,  and all other  conditions of the Awards.  The Committee also
      may  provide  for the grant of shares of Stock  upon the  completion  of a
      specified Performance Period.

      The  provisions  of Other  Stock-Based  Awards  need not be the same  with
      respect to each recipient.


<PAGE>
8.2   Other  Stock-Based  Awards  made  pursuant to this  Article  VIII shall be
      subject to the following terms and conditions:

      (a)   Subject to the provisions of this Plan and the Agreement,  shares of
            Stock  subject to Awards  made under  this  Article  VIII may not be
            sold, assigned,  transferred,  pledged or otherwise encumbered prior
            to the date on which the shares are issued,  or, if later,  the date
            on which any applicable restriction,  performance or deferral period
            lapses.

      (b)   Subject  to the  provisions  of this  Plan and the  Agreement  and
            unless  otherwise  determined  by the Committee at the time of the
            Award,  the recipient of an Award under this Article VIII shall be
            entitled to receive,  currently or on a deferred  basis,  interest
            or dividends or interest or dividend  equivalents  with respect to
            the number of shares  covered by the Award,  as  determined at the
            time of the Award by the Committee,  in its sole  discretion,  and
            the  Committee  may provide that such  amounts,  if any,  shall be
            deemed to have been  reinvested in  additional  Stock or otherwise
            reinvested.

      (c)   Any Award under this Article VIII and any Stock  covered by any such
            Award  shall vest or be  forfeited  to the extent so provided in the
            Agreement, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.

      (d)   Upon the Participant's Retirement,  Disability or death, or in cases
            of special circumstances, the Committee may, in its sole discretion,
            waive in whole  or in part any or all of the  remaining  limitations
            imposed  hereunder,  if any,  with respect to any or all of an Award
            under this Article VIII.

      (e)   Each  Award  under this  Article  VIII  shall be  confirmed  by, and
            subject to the terms of, an Agreement.

      (f)   Stock,  including  securities  convertible  into Stock,  issued on a
            bonus  basis  under  this  Article  VIII may be  issued  for no cash
            consideration.

8.3   Other  Stock-Based  Awards may  include a phantom  stock  Award,  which is
      subject to the following terms and conditions:

      (a)   The Committee shall select the Eligible Participants who may receive
            phantom stock Awards.  The Eligible  Participant  shall be awarded a
            phantom  stock  unit,  which shall be the  equivalent  to a share of
            Stock.

      (b)   Under an Award of phantom stock,  payment shall be made on the dates
            or dates as specified by the Committee or as stated in the Agreement
            and  phantom  stock  Awards may be settled in cash,  Stock,  or some
            combination  thereof  as  determined  by the  Committee  in its sole
            discretion.

      (c)   The Committee  shall  determine  such other terms and  conditions of
            each Award as it deems necessary in its sole discretion.


<PAGE>
                        ARTICLE IX - CHANGE IN CONTROL

9.1   A "Change in Control"  shall be deemed to have occurred upon the happening
      of any of the following events:

      (a)   Any "Person" as defined in Section  3(a)(9) of the Act,  including
            a "group" (as that term is used in Sections  13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2)
            of the Act),  but excluding the Company (as defined in Section 2.8
            of  this  Plan)  and  any  employee   benefit  plan  sponsored  or
            maintained  by the  Company  (including  any  trustee of such plan
            acting  as  trustee),  who  together  with  its  "affiliates"  and
            "associates"  (as those  terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 under the
            Act) becomes the  "Beneficial  Owner"  (within the meaning of Rule
            13d-3  under  the  Act)  of 20% or  more  of the  then-outstanding
            shares   of   Stock   or  the   combined   voting   power  of  the
            then-outstanding  securities  of  the  Company  entitled  to  vote
            generally  in the  election  of its  directors.  For  purposes  of
            calculating  the  number of shares  or voting  power  held by such
            Person  and its  affiliates  and  associates  under  this  Section
            9.1(a),  there shall be excluded any  securities  acquired by such
            Person or its affiliates or associates directly from the Company.

      (b)   A sale  or  other  disposition  of all or  substantially  all of the
            Company's  assets  is  consummated,   other  than  such  a  sale  or
            disposition  that  would not have  constituted  a Change of  Control
            under  subsection  (d) below had it been  structured  as a merger or
            consolidation.

      (c)   The  shareholders of the Company  approve a definitive  agreement or
            plan to liquidate the Company.

      (d)   A merger or  consolidation  of the Company  with and into  another
            entity  is   consummated,   unless   immediately   following  such
            transaction  (1) more  than 50% of the  members  of the  governing
            body of the surviving entity were Incumbent  Directors (as defined
            in  subsection  (e) below) at the time of execution of the initial
            agreement  providing  for such  transaction,  (2) no "Person"  (as
            defined in Section 9.1(a) above),  together with its  "affiliates"
            and  "associates"  (as defined in Section  9.1(a)  above),  is the
            "Beneficial Owner" (as defined in Section 9.1(a) above),  directly
            or  indirectly,  of 20% or  more  of the  then-outstanding  equity
            interests of the surviving  entity or the combined voting power of
            the  then-outstanding  equity  interests of the  surviving  entity
            entitled  to vote  generally  in the  election  of  members of its
            governing  body,  and (3) more  than  50% of the  then-outstanding
            equity  interests of the surviving  entity and the combined voting
            power of the  then-outstanding  equity  interests of the surviving
            entity  entitled to vote  generally  in the election of members of
            its  governing   body  is   "Beneficially   Owned",   directly  or
            indirectly,  by all or  substantially  all of the  individuals and
            entities who were the  "Beneficial  Owners" of the shares of Stock
            immediately  prior to such transaction in  substantially  the same
            proportions  as  their   ownership   immediately   prior  to  such
            transaction.

      (e)   During any period of 24  consecutive  months  during the existence
            of the  Plan,  the  individuals  who,  at the  beginning  of  such
            period,  constitute the Board (the  "Incumbent  Directors")  cease
            for any reason other than death to  constitute at least a majority
            thereof;  provided,  however,  that  a  director  who  was  not  a
            director at the  beginning of such 24 month period shall be deemed
            to have satisfied such 24 month  requirement,  and be an Incumbent


<PAGE>
            Director,   if  such   director   was   elected   by,  or  on  the
            recommendation  of or with the approval of, at least two-thirds of
            the directors  who then  qualified as Incumbent  Directors  either
            actually,  because they were directors at the beginning of such 24
            month period,  or by prior operation of this Section  9.1(e),  but
            excluding  for this  purpose  any such  individual  whose  initial
            assumption  of  office  is  in   connection   with  an  actual  or
            threatened  election  context subject to Rule 14a-11 of Regulation
            14A  promulgated  under  the Act or  other  actual  or  threatened
            solicitation  of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a "Person"
            (as defined in Section 9.1(a) above) other than the Board.

9.2   In the event of a Change in Control: (a) any or all then outstanding Stock
      Options  having an Option Grant Date on or before January 31, 1999, to the
      extent not previously  fully vested and exercisable,  shall  automatically
      become fully vested and,  except to the extent such Options are cashed out
      pursuant to Section 9.4 below,  exercisable effective immediately prior to
      the Change in Control;  and (b) outstanding Stock Options having an Option
      Grant Date after January 31, 1999 shall vest and become  exercisable  only
      to  the  extent  and in  such  manner  as is  provided  in the  applicable
      Agreement evidencing the Stock Option.

9.3   In the event of a Change in Control, the restrictions applicable to Awards
      of Restricted Stock or Other Stock-Based Awards shall  automatically lapse
      effective  immediately  prior to the  Change in  Control,  in which  case,
      subject to the  requirements  of applicable  law, the Company shall remove
      all  restrictive  legends  and  stop-transfer  orders  applicable  to  the
      certificates for such shares of Stock and deliver such certificates to the
      Participants in whose names they are registered.

9.4   Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control,  the Committee may in its sole
      discretion and consistent  with the  requirements of applicable law decide
      to cash-out the value of all outstanding  Stock Options,  Restricted Stock
      and Other  Stock-Based  Awards, in each case to the extent vested pursuant
      to Sections 9.2 and/or 9.3 above or otherwise, on the basis of the "Change
      in Control  Price" (as  defined in Section  9.5) less the  exercise  price
      under  such  Award  (if any) as of the date  such  Change  in  Control  is
      determined  to have  occurred  or such  other  date prior to the Change in
      Control as the Committee may determine.

9.5   For purposes of Section 9.4,  "Change in Control  Price" means the highest
      price per share of Stock paid in any transaction  reported on the exchange
      on which the Stock is then traded or on the NASDAQ  National Market System
      or the  NASDAQ  Small-Cap  Market  System,  as the case may be, or paid or
      offered in any bona fide  transaction  related to a Change in Control,  at
      any time during the 120 day period immediately preceding the occurrence of
      the Change in Control, as determined by the Committee.

9.6   The Committee is authorized to take such actions that are not inconsistent
      with Sections  9.2, 9.3, 9.4 and 9.5 above as the Committee  determines to
      be necessary or advisable,  and fair and equitable to  Participants,  with
      respect to an Award in the event of a Change in  Control.  Such action may
      include,  but shall not be limited to,  establishing,  amending or waiving
      the forms,  terms,  conditions and duration of an Award and the Agreement,
      so as to provide for  earlier,  later,  extended or  additional  times for
      exercise  or  payment,  differing  methods for  calculating  payments  and
      alternate  forms and  amounts  of  payment.  The  Committee  may take such
      actions  pursuant to this Section 9.6 by adopting rules and regulations of
      general  applicability  to all  Participants  or to certain  categories of
      Participants, by including, amending or waiving terms and conditions in an
      Award and the  Agreement,  or by taking  action with respect to individual
      Participants.


<PAGE>
                    ARTICLE X - AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

10.1  The Board, upon recommendation of the Committee, or otherwise, at any time
      and from time to time,  may amend or  terminate  the Plan.  To the  extent
      required  by Code  Section  422,  no  amendment,  without  approval by the
      Company's shareholders, shall:

      (a)   alter the group of persons eligible to participate in the Plan;

      (b)   except as provided in Section 3.5,  increase  the maximum  number of
            shares of Stock or Stock  Options  which are  available  for  Awards
            under the Plan;

      (c)   extend the period during which  Incentive Stock Option Awards may be
            granted  beyond  the  date  which is ten (10)  years  following  the
            Effective Date.

      (d)   limit or restrict  the powers of the  Committee  with respect to the
            administration of this Plan;

      (e)   change the definition of an Eligible  Participant for the purpose of
            an  Incentive  Stock  Option or  increase  the limit or the value of
            shares of Stock for which an Eligible  Participant may be granted an
            Incentive Stock Option;

      (f)   materially increase the benefits accruing to Participants under this
            Plan;

      (g)   materially   modify  the   requirements   as  to   eligibility   for
            participation in this Plan; or

      (h) change any of the provisions of this Article X.

10.2  No amendment to or discontinuance of this Plan or any provision thereof by
      the Board or the  shareholders  of the Company shall,  without the written
      consent of the Participant,  adversely  affect,  as shall be determined by
      the Committee, any Award previously granted to such Participant under this
      Plan; provided, however, the Committee retains the right and power to:

      (a)   annul  any Award if the  Participant  is  terminated  for cause as
            determined by the Committee;

      (b)   provide for the forfeiture of shares of Stock or other gain under an
            Award as  determined  by the  Committee  for  competing  against the
            Company; and

      (c)   convert any  outstanding  Incentive  Stock Option to a  Nonqualified
            Stock Option.

10.3  If a Change in Control has  occurred,  no amendment or  termination  shall
      impair the rights of any person with  respect to an  outstanding  Award as
      provided in Article IX.


<PAGE>
                    ARTICLE XI - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

11.1  Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted  hereunder  shall confer upon any
      Participant  any right to  continue  in the employ of the  Company,  or to
      serve as a director thereof, or interfere in any way with the right of the
      Company  to  terminate  his  or  her   employment  at  any  time.   Unless
      specifically provided otherwise,  no Award granted under the Plan shall be
      deemed salary or compensation for the purpose of computing  benefits under
      any  employee  benefit  plan or other  arrangement  of the Company for the
      benefit of its employees unless the Company shall determine otherwise.  No
      Participant  shall have any claim to an Award until it is actually granted
      under the Plan. To the extent that any person  acquires a right to receive
      payments  from the Company  under the Plan,  such right  shall,  except as
      otherwise  provided by the  Committee,  be no greater than the right of an
      unsecured  general  creditor  of the  Company.  All  payments  to be  made
      hereunder  shall be paid from the  general  funds of the  company,  and no
      special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets
      shall be made to assure  payment of such  amounts,  except as  provided in
      Article  VII with  respect to  Restricted  Stock and  except as  otherwise
      provided by the Committee.

11.2  The  Company may make such  provisions  and take such steps as it may deem
      necessary  or  appropriate  for the  withholding  of any  taxes  which the
      Company  is  required  by  any  law  or  regulation  of  any  governmental
      authority,  whether  federal,  state or local,  domestic  or  foreign,  to
      withhold in connection with any Stock Option or the exercise  thereof,  or
      in connection  with any other type of equity-based  compensation  provided
      hereunder  or the  exercise  thereof,  including,  but not limited to, the
      withholding  of  payment  of all or any  portion  of such Award or another
      Award under this Plan until the Participant reimburses the Company for the
      amount the Company is required to withhold with respect to such taxes,  or
      canceling any portion of such Award or another Award under this Plan in an
      amount  sufficient to reimburse itself for the amount it is required to so
      withhold, or selling any property contingently credited by the Company for
      the  purpose of paying  such Award or another  Award  under this Plan,  in
      order to withhold or reimburse  itself for the amount it is required to so
      withhold.

11.3  The Plan and the  grant of  Awards  shall  be  subject  to all  applicable
      federal and state laws,  rules,  and  regulations and to such approvals by
      any United States government or regulatory agency as may be required.

11.4  The  terms  of the  Plan  shall  be  binding  upon  the  Company,  and its
      successors and assigns.

11.5  Neither a Stock Option,  nor any other type of  equity-based  compensation
      provided  for  hereunder,  shall be  transferable  except as provided  for
      herein.  Unless  otherwise  provided by the  Committee or in an Agreement,
      transfer  restrictions  shall only  apply to  Incentive  Stock  Options as
      required in Article IV and to the extent otherwise  required by federal or
      state  securities  laws.  If any  Participant  makes  such a  transfer  in
      violation hereof, any obligation of the Company shall forthwith terminate.

11.6  This Plan and all actions taken hereunder shall be governed by the laws of
      the State of North Carolina.

11.7  The Plan is intended to constitute  an  "unfunded"  plan for incentive and
      deferred  compensation.  With  respect to any  payments  not yet made to a
      Participant by the Company,  nothing  contained herein shall give any such
      Participant  any rights that are greater than those of a general  creditor
      of the Company.  In its sole  discretion,  the Committee may authorize the
      creation of trusts or other  arrangements to meet the obligations  created
      under the Plan to deliver  shares of Stock or  payments in lieu of or with
      respect to Awards hereunder; provided, however, that, unless the Committee
      otherwise  determines  with the consent of the affected  Participant,  the
      existence  of such trusts or other  arrangements  is  consistent  with the
      "unfunded" status of the Plan.


<PAGE>
11.8  Each  Participant  exercising  an  Award  hereunder  agrees  to  give  the
      Committee  prompt written notice of any election made by such  Participant
      under Section 83(b) of the Code, or any similar provision thereof.

11.9  If any  provision  of this Plan or an Agreement is or becomes or is deemed
      invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or would disqualify
      the  Plan  or  any  Agreement  under  any  law  deemed  applicable  by the
      Committee,  such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform
      to applicable laws or if it cannot be construed or deemed amended without,
      in the determination of the Committee,  materially  altering the intent of
      the Plan or the  Agreement,  it shall be stricken and the remainder of the
      Plan or the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.11
<TEXT>


                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.11

                                                                March 30, 1999

                           TRANSFORMATION AGREEMENT

between

Siemens AG HL

a company incorporated under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany,  whose
registered office is at Wittelsbacherplatz 2, 80312 Munich

- - hereinafter referred to as SIEMENS

and

CREE Research, Inc.

a company incorporated under the laws of North Carolina, whose registered office
is at 4600 Silicon Drive, Durham, NC 27703.

- - hereinafter referred to as CREE

and

OSRAM Opto Semiconductors GmbH & Co. OHG

a company incorporated under the laws of the Federal Republic of Germany,  whose
registered office is at Wernerwerkstrasse 2, 83049 Regensburg,

- - hereinafter referred to as OSRAM OS

Whereas -

the parties hereto except OSRAM OS have entered into a Development,  License and
Supply  Agreement  dated  October  25,  1995,  and a  Purchase  Agreement  dated
September 6, 1996 and amendments thereto  (hereinafter  referred to collectively
as the "Agreements").

which are in full force and effect, unconditional and unterminated as of
today.

SIEMENS as party to the  Agreements,  now  intends to transfer  its  position as
party to the Agreements to its subsidiary, OSRAM OS.

OSRAM OS wishes to take over  SIEMENS'  position  and become  party  instead and
place of SIEMENS.


<PAGE>
Now it is hereby agreed as follows:

With effect as of January 1st, 1999 the Agreements shall be modified as follows:

      Siemens Aktiengesellschaft, a company incorporated in the Federal Republic
      of Germany  and having its  registered  address at  Wittelsbacherplatz  2,
      Postfach 10 12 12, D 80312 Muenchen, the Federal

      Republic of Germany,

      in each case shall be substituted by:

      OSRAM  Opto  Semiconductors  GmbH & Co.  OHG,  Wernerwerkstrasse  2, 93049
      Regensburg, the Federal Republic of Germany, "OSRAM OS".

      Consequentially,  each  reference  in the  wording  of the  Agreements  to
      "Siemens" or "Siemens HL" shall be deemed to read "OSRAM OS" instead.

      Nothing herein shall be construed to release  SIEMENS from its obligations
      under the Agreements,  including but not limited to its  obligations  with
      respect to  confidential  information  of CREE,  and SIEMENS  shall in all
      events remain responsible for performance of the Agreements by OSRAM OS.

      Correspondence of technical, commercial or sales-related content necessary
      in the course of performing  this  agreement  shall pass directly  between
      Siemens HL OS and the competent departments at OSRAM OS, Wernerwerkstrasse
      2, 93049 Regensburg.

Apart from the above  changes,  the  Agreements  shall remain  unaltered in full
force and effect.

OSRAM OS agrees to be bound by and  comply  with the  Restricted  Use  Agreement
(RUA) dated  October 1, 1994  between  Siemens and Cree with  respect to all SiC
material supplied by Cree.

Durham, dated this March 30, 1999

 ..../s/..............................
CREE Research, Inc.

Regensburg, dated this ...30.3.., 1999    Regensburg, dated this ....30.3..,
1999



 ..../s/..............................    ..../s/................................
SIEMENS AG HL                            OSRAM Opto Semiconductors
                                          GmbH & Co. OHG


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 11.1
<TEXT>


                                                                  EXHIBIT 11.1

                              CREE RESEARCH, INC.
             STATEMENT REGARDING COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE

                    Year Ended  Year Ended  Year Ended  Year Ended  Year Ended
                     June 27,    June 28,    June 30,    June 30,    June 30,
                       1999        1998        1997        1996        1995
                    ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Basic:
Weighted average
common shares
outstanding         27,015,000  25,726,000  24,911,000  23,652,000  20,734,000
Net income (loss)   12,702,000   6,275,000   3,542,000     243,000    (17,000)
                    ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Net income (loss)
per common share      $ 0.47      $ 0.24      $ 0.14      $ 0.01     $ (0.00)
                    ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========

Diluted:
Weighted average
common shares
outstanding         27,015,000  25,726,000  24,911,000  23,652,000  20,734,000
Dilutive effect of
stock options and
warrants             1,417,000   1,261,000   1,340,000   1,578,000      ---
                    ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Total shares        28,432,000  26,987,000  26,251,000  25,230,000  20,734,000
                    ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Net income (loss)   12,702,000   6,275,000   3,542,000     243,000    (17,000)
                    ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Net income (loss)
per common share      $ 0.45      $ 0.23        0.13      $ 0.01     $ (0.00)
                    ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23.1
<TEXT>


                                                                  EXHIBIT 23.1

                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We consent to the  incorporation by reference in the  Registration  Statements
of Cree Research,  Inc. on Forms S-8 (No.  33-98956 and No. 33-98958) and Form
S-3 (No.  33-98728)  of our  report  dated July 23,  1999 with  respect to the
consolidated  financial  statements of Cree  Research,  Inc. and  subsidiaries
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 27, 1999.

Ernst & Young LLP

Raleigh, North Carolina
August 11, 1999


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23.2
<TEXT>

                                                                  EXHIBIT 23.2

                      CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

We hereby  consent  to the  incorporation  by  reference  in the  Registration
Statements  on Form S-3 (No.  33-98728)  and Forms S-8 (No.  33-98956  and No.
33-98958) of Cree  Research,  Inc. and  subsidiaries  of our report dated July
22, 1998 relating to the financial statements which appear in this Form 10-K.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Raleigh, North Carolina
August 11, 1999

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE>                 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM THE
ACCOMPANYING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY
REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<CIK>                                          0000895419
<NAME>                                         CREE RESEARCH, INC.
<MULTIPLIER>                                   1,000
<CURRENCY>                                     U.S. DOLLARS

<S>                                            <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                  12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUN-27-1999
<PERIOD-START>                             JUN-29-1998
<PERIOD-END>                               JUN-27-1999
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                          42,506
<SECURITIES>                                     6,145
<RECEIVABLES>                                   16,460
<ALLOWANCES>                                       175
<INVENTORY>                                      3,977
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                69,767
<PP&E>                                          83,195
<DEPRECIATION>                                  13,311
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 144,217
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                            9,545
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                       111,209
<OTHER-SE>                                      18,813
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   144,217
<SALES>                                         60,050
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                60,050
<CGS>                                           31,920
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                   43,468
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                             (1,060)
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                 17,642
<INCOME-TAX>                                     4,940
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                             12,702
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                    12,702
<EPS-BASIC>                                     0.47
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     0.45


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
