-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 TaMBXxpitfaaIyFaqTlNqhPNOy89Xg4J/XctVuo7+eFBtgz8L1t17B1Xxih9ajVC
 Nv4/SRsRwoypqMZB4xCa1Q==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>/in/edgar/work/20000810/0000895419-00-000012/0000895419-00-000012.txt : 20000921
<SEC-HEADER>0000895419-00-000012.hdr.sgml : 20000921
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000895419-00-000012
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20000625
FILED AS OF DATE:		20000810

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CREE INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895419
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	 [3674
]		IRS NUMBER:				561572719
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0627
</COMPANY-DATA>

		FILING VALUES:
			FORM TYPE:		10-K
			SEC ACT:		
			SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-21154
			FILM NUMBER:		691814
</FILING-VALUES>

			BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
				STREET 1:		4600 SILICON DR
				CITY:			DURHAM
				STATE:			NC
				ZIP:			27703
				BUSINESS PHONE:		9193615709
</BUSINESS-ADDRESS>

				MAIL ADDRESS:	
					STREET 1:		4600 SILICON DR
					STREET 2:		STE 176
					CITY:			DURHAM
					STATE:			NC
					ZIP:			27703
</MAIL-ADDRESS>

					FORMER COMPANY:	
						FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CREE RESEARCH INC /NC/
						DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940224
</FORMER-COMPANY>
</FILER>
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>0001.txt
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended June 25, 2000

                                   CREE, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


North Carolina                       0-21154                   56-1572719
(State or other               (Commission File No.)         (I.R.S. Employer
jurisdiction                                              Identification Number)
of incorporation)


                4600 Silicon Drive, Durham, North Carolina 27703
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (919) 313-5300
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)


        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                         Common Stock, $0.0025 par value
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The  aggregate  market  value of  common  stock  held by  non-affiliates  of the
registrant as of August 4, 2000 was approximately  $3,368,572,950  (based on the
closing sale price of $102 per share).

The number of shares of the  registrant's  Common  Stock,  $0.0025 par value per
share, outstanding as of August 4, 2000 was 35,351,133.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the definitive  Proxy  Statement to be delivered to  shareholders in
connection  with the Annual Meeting of  Shareholders to be held October 31, 2000
are incorporated by reference into Part III.

<PAGE>

                                   CREE, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K

                     For the Fiscal Year Ended June 25, 2000

                                      INDEX

Part I                                                                      Page

Item  1.  Business............................................................3
Item  2.  Properties.........................................................20
Item  3.  Legal Proceedings..................................................20
Item  4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders................20

Part II

Item  5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
          Stockholder Matters................................................21
Item  6.  Selected Financial Data............................................21
Item  7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
          Condition and Results of Operations................................23
Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.........30
Item  8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data........................31
Item  9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
          Accounting and Financial Disclosures...............................53

Part III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.................54
Item 11.  Executive Compensation.............................................54
Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
          Management.........................................................54
Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.....................54

Part IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K....55

SIGNATURES...................................................................57

<PAGE>
                                     PART I

Item 1. Business

INTRODUCTION
- ------------

Cree,  Inc.,  a  North  Carolina   corporation,   was  established  in  1987  to
commercialize silicon carbide, or SiC, semiconductor wafers and devices.  Today,
we are the world leader in developing and manufacturing  compound  semiconductor
materials  and  electronic  devices  made  from  SiC.  SiC-based  devices  offer
significant  advantages  over  competing  products  made from  silicon,  gallium
arsenide,  sapphire and other materials for certain electronic applications.  We
use our compound semiconductor technology to make enabling products such as blue
and green light  emitting  diodes,  or LEDs.  We sell our LEDs to customers  who
package  them  for use in  applications  such  as  backlighting  for  automotive
dashboards  and  automotive  interior  lighting,  wireless  handsets  and  other
consumer  products.  Other  applications for our LEDs include indoor and outdoor
full color displays,  such as video boards in indoor arenas and outdoor stadiums
or  billboards  and message  signs.  Our LEDs are also used in traffic  signals,
indicator  lights for  consumer or  industrial  equipment  and  miniature  white
lights.  We have developed several  generations of LED products,  including high
performance  LEDs with increased  brightness  over our previous diodes and small
chip products, which consume less power. Our SiC-based blue and green LEDs offer
benefits  to our  customers  over  competing  products,  including  an  industry
standard chip structure,  improved resistance to electrostatic discharge,  small
size and low unit price. We also manufacture SiC materials  products,  including
SiC wafers,  that we sell for use in manufacturing  and for research directed to
optoelectronics,  microwave and power applications, and SiC crystals used in the
production of unique gemstones.

We have new product  initiatives  for RF and microwave  transistors and recently
began  shipping  limited  quantities  of these  devices.  We believe  that these
products  may  prove  useful  in a  variety  of  applications,  including  power
amplifiers for wireless  infrastructure,  home-based  multi-channel  multi-point
subscriber units, digital broadcast  applications and solid state radar. We also
have new product  initiatives  aimed at developing  high power devices for power
conversion  and  switching  uses and blue laser  diodes for use in  high-density
digital versatile disk, or DVD, players and other optical storage  applications.
We are also  developing  LEDs with a higher  luminous  efficiency  to expand our
existing  family of devices.  We believe if certain  significant  milestones are
achieved  these LED chip  products  currently  in  development  may  enable  our
customers to produce white lamps that could compete in the conventional lighting
market.

BACKGROUND
- ----------

Most semiconductor  devices are fabricated on wafers made from silicon crystals.
Silicon evolved as the dominant  semiconductor material because it is relatively
easy to grow into large,  single crystals and is suitable for  fabricating  many
electronic devices.  Alternative  materials,  such as gallium arsenide, or GaAs,
have emerged to enable the fabrication of new devices with  characteristics that
could not be obtained using silicon, including certain RF, microwave, LED, laser
and other solid state devices.  However,  GaAs,  silicon and other  commercially
available   semiconductor   materials  have  certain   physical  and  electronic
characteristics  that  limit  their  usefulness  in  certain  applications.  For
example, silicon and GaAs-based semiconductors have not demonstrated the ability
to fabricate short wavelength  optoelectronic  devices.  In addition,  the power
handling  capabilities of silicon and GaAs-based microwave transistors can limit
the power and  performance  of  microwave  systems used in many

                                      -3-

<PAGE>
commercial and military  applications.  SiC can deliver five times the power per
single device than silicon or GaAs based devices,  therefore, SiC based wireless
systems may use fewer transistors per base station with less complex  circuitry,
which may  result in a lower  system  cost.  Furthermore,  few  silicon  or GaAs
devices can operate  effectively at temperatures  above 400 degrees  Fahrenheit.
This is a significant  limitation for applications  such as advanced  electronic
systems for high power electric motors, jet engines and satellites.

Substantial research and development efforts have been undertaken to explore the
properties  of other  potential  semiconductor  materials.  These  efforts  have
identified few candidate materials that are capable of being grown as low defect
single  crystals,  a requirement in the production of most  semiconductors.  SiC
also possesses  physical and electronic  properties that  meaningfully  increase
device  performance  over products  fabricated from  semiconductor  materials in
general use. Of the few potential  candidates,  the properties of SiC make it an
excellent material for extending existing  semiconductor device technology where
high power, high temperature or short wavelengths are important for performance.

SiC OVERVIEW
- ------------

SiC has many  physical  characteristics  that make it difficult to produce.  For
example, in a typical  semiconductor  manufacturing  process,  the semiconductor
material is grown in single crystal form and sliced into wafers.  The wafers are
then  polished  and  chemically  etched,  coated  with  thin  crystalline  films
containing controlled levels of impurities and fabricated into devices.  Because
SiC can form many  different  atomic  arrangements  and must be grown at process
temperatures  above 3,500  degrees  Fahrenheit,  it is  difficult  to grow large
single  crystals  that are  homogeneous  in  structure.  In  addition,  the high
temperatures  required to grow SiC make the  control of  impurity  levels in SiC
crystals and thin films  difficult.  "Micropipes,"  or small diameter holes, may
appear in the crystals during their growth,  affecting the electrical  integrity
of the wafer and  reducing  the  usability  of portions of the wafer for certain
applications. Slicing and polishing SiC wafers is also hindered by the intrinsic
hardness of the material.  Similarly, its inherent chemical resistance makes SiC
a difficult  material to etch. The  characteristics  discussed below distinguish
SiC from conventional silicon and GaAs-based semiconductor materials,  resulting
in significant advantages if production hurdles can be overcome:

WIDE  ENERGY  BANDGAP.  Bandgap  is the amount of energy  required  to ionize an
electron from the valence band to the  conduction  band.  SiC is classified as a
"wide bandgap" semiconductor material,  meaning that more energy is required for
ionization.  Electronic  devices  made  from  this  material  can  operate  more
efficiently and at much higher  temperatures than devices made from other common
semiconductor materials.

HIGH BREAKDOWN  ELECTRIC FIELD. The "breakdown  electric field" is the amount of
voltage per unit distance  that a material can  withstand and still  effectively
operate as a  semiconductor  device.  SiC has a much higher  breakdown  electric
field than silicon or GaAs. This characteristic allows SiC devices to operate at
much higher  voltage  levels.  Additionally,  it allows SiC power  devices to be
significantly  smaller  while  carrying the same as or greater power levels than
comparable silicon and GaAs-based devices.

HIGH THERMAL  CONDUCTIVITY.  SiC is an excellent thermal  conductor  compared to
other  commercially  available  semiconductor  materials.  This feature  enables
SiC-based devices to operate at high power levels and still dissipate the excess
heat generated.

                                      -4-

<PAGE>
HIGH SATURATED  ELECTRON  DRIFT  VELOCITY.  SiC has a "saturated  electron drift
velocity"  higher than that of silicon or GaAs.  The  saturated  electron  drift
velocity is the maximum speed at which  electrons can travel through a material.
This  characteristic,  combined with a high breakdown electric field, allows the
fabrication of SiC-based  microwave  transistors  that operate at  significantly
higher power levels than current silicon and GaAs-based devices.

ROBUST  MATERIAL.  SiC has an  extremely  high  melting  point and is one of the
hardest known materials in the world. As a result, SiC can withstand much higher
electrical pulses and is much more radiation-resistant than silicon or GaAs. SiC
is also  extremely  resistant  to  chemical  breakdown  and can operate in harsh
environments.

GEMOLOGICAL  APPEAL. In the gemstone industry,  SiC is known as moissanite.  Its
high refractive index and dispersion give it "diamond-like"  sparkle or fire. In
addition,  its hardness allows superior faceting and wear resistance compared to
many gemstone materials.

THE CREE SOLUTION
- -----------------

Some of the same physical  characteristics  that make SiC an excellent  material
for certain semiconductor  applications also make the material very difficult to
produce.  Through our 13 years of development and manufacturing  experience,  we
have succeeded in overcoming many of the difficulties involved in processing SiC
for commercial  use. We introduced our first product in October 1989 and believe
we are currently the leading  volume  producer of SiC wafers and SiC-based  blue
and green LED  products in the world.  We believe that our  proprietary  process
techniques  and the inherent  attributes  of SiC give our  products  significant
advantages  over  competing  products  for certain  electronic  and  gemological
applications. These advantages include:

BLUE AND GREEN LIGHT  EMISSION.  We produce high  efficiency blue and green LEDs
using gallium nitride, or GaN, a wide bandgap material, and other nitrides grown
on SiC  substrates.  Other  manufacturers  of  nitride-based  LEDs currently use
sapphire substrates.  The conductive  properties of SiC enable us to fabricate a
simpler,  industry  standard  sized LED chip that is smaller  than LEDs grown on
competing sapphire substrates. We believe the industry standard size of our chip
affords our customers  more  flexibility  in gaining design wins and our smaller
chip  size  enables  our  product  to be  offered  for a lower  cost per chip in
comparison  to  sapphire-based   products  currently  available.   We  are  also
developing LEDs with higher  luminous  efficiency that may allow our products to
better  compete  with  the  brightness  offered  from  sapphire-based  products.
Sapphire-based  products  currently offer a higher  brightness than our existing
LED products.  We are also working to develop highly efficient  near-ultraviolet
LED chips that may  eventually  be used by our  customers to produce white lamps
that can compete with conventional  lighting products for certain  applications.
We have also  demonstrated  in the laboratory and are continuing  development of
nitride-based  blue laser diodes grown on SiC. The  principal  advantages of SiC
over other substrate materials for blue laser diodes are its high electrical and
thermal  conductivity  and its ability to be  cleaved,  providing  an  excellent
surface for laser light emission.

ENABLING  SUBSTRATE  PROPERTIES.  The inherent  attributes of SiC as a substrate
enable researchers to work on developing new optoelectronic, microwave and power
devices that offer  significant  advantages  over  competing  products and which
could  not  be  produced  as  effectively  on  other  substrate  materials.   We
manufacture  SiC  wafers  for  both  internal  use  and  for  sale  to  external
development  programs  to further  new  product  development.  We also sell some
wafers to Osram OS for the  production  of LED  products.  In October  1999,  we
introduced a larger  three-inch  wafer to production  for research  purposes and
demonstrated a four-inch  prototype  wafer.

                                      -5-
<PAGE>
GEMSTONE  MATERIAL  PROPERTIES.  We  manufacture  SiC crystals  that are used to
produce moissanite gemstones.  The combination of SiC's optical properties (high
refractive  index and  dispersion)  and robust  material  properties  give these
gemstones both  diamond-like  sparkle or fire and hardness  characteristics.  We
continue to develop larger and higher quality SiC crystals for this application.

HIGH  POWER  RF  AND  MICROWAVE  OPERATIONS.  We  have  demonstrated  SiC RF and
microwave  transistors  that can operate at much higher voltages than silicon or
GaAs because of SiC's high breakdown electric field,  allowing much higher power
operation  at high  frequencies.  We believe our higher  power SiC devices  will
enable the design and  manufacture  of SiC-based RF and  microwave  transmitters
with  less  circuit  complexity  and  higher  total  output  power.  These  same
advantages exist for microwave  devices made using GaN on SiC substrates,  which
can also operate at much higher  frequencies than SiC-only devices.  We recently
began shipping limited quantities of SiC RF devices that can be used in wireless
infrastructure  applications such as cellular base station transmission systems.
We believe  that SiC  devices  offer  certain  advantages  for RF and  microwave
applications  in comparison to silicon and GaAs devices,  including  using fewer
devices for a similar  range of  frequency,  superior  linearity  for  digitally
modulated carrier  applications  which results in less distortion to the signal,
superior efficiency,  and the ability to operate at higher temperatures.  We are
continuing  development  of  additional  RF and  microwave  devices  for  use in
wireless infrastructure and other commercial and defense-related applications.

HIGH POWER,  HIGH  VOLTAGE  OPERATION.  We are  developing  SiC power diodes and
switches that are able to operate at higher power  densities than currently used
semiconductor  materials because of the much higher breakdown  electric field of
SiC. In addition,  we believe that our SiC power devices will be able to operate
with lower  resistive  losses and lower  switching  losses  than those made with
silicon or GaAs.

PRODUCTS
- --------

All of our current products are based on our SiC technology. The following chart
illustrates  our existing  products and existing and potential  applications  of
these products by our customers and their end users:

      PRODUCT                 EXISTING AND POTENTIAL USER APPLICATIONS
      -------                 ----------------------------------------

      Blue and green LEDs     o Backlighting in applications such as automotive
                                dashboards and interior lighting, wireless hand-
                                sets and other lighting applications
                              o Large indoor full color displays,  such as arena
                                video screens
                              o Large outdoor full color displays
                              o White light products to replace miniature incan-
                                descent bulbs,  such as those used in automobile
                                map lights and other lighting applications
                              o Traffic signals
                              o Indicator  lights  used for consumer, office and
                                other equipment
      Wafer Products          o Manufacture of LEDs
                              o Research  and development for new  semiconductor
                                devices

                                       -6-

<PAGE>
      SiC crystals            o Gemstones
      RF transistors and      o Power  amplifier  systems  for  wireless  infra-
      amplifiers                structure, such as base stations, wireless local
                                loop and multi-channel, multi-point distribution
                                system base station and subscriber sites
                              o Digital broadcast systems
                              o Solid-state radar systems
                              o Military communications systems

BLUE AND GREEN LEDs

LEDs are solid-state chips used in miniature lamps in everyday applications such
as indicator lights on printers,  computers and other equipment.  LEDs generally
offer substantial  advantages over small  incandescent  bulbs,  including longer
life,  lower  maintenance  cost  and  energy  consumption,   and  smaller  space
requirements.  Groups  of LEDs  can  make up  single  or  multicolor  electronic
displays. Since the introduction of our first blue SiC-only LED product in 1989,
we have developed several generations of LED products,  including blue and green
LEDs using nitride materials on SiC substrates,  a more robust conductive buffer
chip that is easier to build into lamps,  higher brightness products and a small
size low power consumption  diode. All of these products have a lower unit price
than competing  products.  We believe that LEDs made from SiC  substrates  offer
important benefits over those made from the sapphire  substrates  presently used
by our competitors, including:

     o an industry standard vertical chip structure requiring a single wire bond
       that permits faster LED assembly and reduced  cost;
     o a small chip size;
     o improved resistance to electrostatic discharge, or ESD, which reduces the
       cost, engineering effort and time to qualify  LEDs at customer production
       sites; and
     o a lower-priced outdoor-capable product.

Presently, our LED chips are used for backlighting purposes in applications such
as automotive  dashboards,  interior  automotive  lighting,  and liquid  crystal
display or LCD,  including  wireless  handsets and other consumer  products.  In
addition, they are used in office equipment indicator lighting, full color video
display  technology,  such as arena video boards,  billboards and moving message
advertising  and  informational  signs.  Our standard  brightness  LED products,
offered in blue wavelengths only, are primarily used in indoor applications.  In
September 1998, we introduced  brighter,  higher-priced blue and green LEDs that
offer  a  lower  cost  alternative  to  competing   products  made  on  sapphire
substrates. These products increased brightness up to 300% over our standard LED
products.  These higher  brightness  parts are used by our  customers to produce
packaged components marketed for backlighting  applications  requiring low power
consumption,  such as LCDs for wireless handsets and consumer  products,  and in
traffic signals and outdoor full-color display  applications where brightness is
critical.

We also offer a product line within our blue LED products that our customers use
in  manufacturing  solid-state  LED components that emit white light. By passing
blue or near ultraviolet LED output through certain conversion materials such as
phosphors  or  polymers,  blue  light may be  converted  into  white  light.  We
currently sell blue LED chips to customers who produce packaged  components that
emit white light.  Commercial  products  incorporating our chips for white light
conversion  include  backlighting  applications  for  automobile  dashboards and
instrumentation  and LCD backlighting for

                                      -7-

<PAGE>
wireless  handsets.  Other  applications for white light LEDs include  miniature
incandescent  lighting,  such as map lights,  automobile  trunk lights and small
flashlights.

In June 2000,  we  announced  the  introduction  of a new  smaller  chip that is
available at standard and high brightness  levels in blue and in high brightness
levels  for  green.  This  product  costs  less and uses 50% less power than our
larger  sized  chips.  We are  targeting  this  product to the low cost  handset
market.

We are focusing current  development efforts on further improving the brightness
of our high brightness  LEDs. We believe that increased  brightness is necessary
to effectively compete against LEDs fabricated on sapphire substrates, which are
presently brighter than our high brightness products, and may eventually lead to
products marketed for commercial lighting applications. LED products represented
63%, 49%, and 43% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 25, 2000,  June
27, 1999, and June 28, 1998, respectively.

MATERIALS PRODUCTS

We  manufacture  SiC wafers for sale to  corporate,  government  and  university
programs that use SiC as the basis for research in optoelectronic, microwave and
high power  devices.  Each order may be sold as a bare  wafer or  customized  by
adding epitaxial films,  depending upon the nature of the customer's development
program.  For the past several  years,  we have worked to improve the quality of
our wafers while  increasing their size. In October 1999, we released a low-cost
two-inch wafer targeted as an  alternative to sapphire  substrates  used by many
researchers in the  optoelectronics  field. In the same month, we introduced our
first three-inch wafer for sale to the research community.

Single  crystalline  SiC  has  characteristics  that  are  similar  to  diamond,
including properties relating to hardness and brilliance.  Through a proprietary
process,  we manufacture SiC crystals in near colorless form for use in gemstone
applications.  We sell SiC  crystals  directly  to Charles & Colvard,  or C&C, a
company  founded to develop  gemstone  products from SiC crystals.  C&C cuts and
facets  the  SiC  crystals  to  fabricate  diamond-like  gemstones  targeted  at
customers who desire  affordable  high quality  jewelry.  In December  1999, C&C
announced lower sales revenue and higher  inventory  levels than  anticipated as
well as the initiation of a new marketing campaign for its gemstone products. As
a  result,  we  anticipate  that  sales to C&C will  continue  to  decline  as a
percentage  of our business in fiscal 2001.  Future  demand also is dependent on
C&C's ability to cut, facet and effectively market its gemstone products.  Wafer
and other material products  represented 26%, 37% and 31% of our revenue for the
fiscal  years  ended  June  25,  2000,   June  27,  1999,  and  June  28,  1998,
respectively.

RF AND MICROWAVE TRANSISTORS

In June 1999,  we  announced  the first of a planned  line of  SiC-based  RF and
microwave transistor  products.  Samples of this product were shipped throughout
fiscal 2000. In June 2000, the first 10-watt  transistor  products were released
to production  and became  available to customers in limited  quantities.  These
products include a complete,  self-biased broadband power amplifier covering 100
megahertz  to 1  gigahertz  as well as  pre-matched  transistors  for  broadband
wireless access bands up to 3.7 gigahertz. We believe that these products can be
used  in  a  variety  of  power  amplifier   applications,   including  wireless
infrastructure,  home-based  subscriber  units,  cable TV and digital  broadcast
applications.  At this time we are  shipping  only limited  quantities  of these
products. Revenue growth from sales of these devices is dependent on the results
of customer  evaluations  of the first SiC RF products  and whether the products
are designed into customer applications.

                                      -8-

<PAGE>
PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT
- --------------------------

The following chart illustrates the potential user applications for each area of
current product development:

      PRODUCT CATEGORY                  POTENTIAL USER APPLICATIONS
      ----------------                  ---------------------------

      RF and microwave devices          o Power  amplifier systems  for wireless
                                          applications,  such as  base stations,
                                          wireless local loop and multi-channel,
                                          multi-point  distribution system base
                                          station and subscriber sites
                                        o Amplifiers for CATV
                                        o Digital broadcast systems
                                        o Solid-state radar systems
      Power devices                     o Industrial motor controls
                                        o Electric vehicles
                                        o High voltage power supplies
                                        o Lighting ballasts
                                        o Factory robotics
                                        o Locomotive applications
                                        o Solid-state power transmission
      Blue and ultraviolet  lasers      o High density optical storage, such as
                                          DVDs
      LEDs with higher lumenous         o Premium outdoor display signs
       efficiency                       o Products for the conventional lighting
                                          market

RF AND MICROWAVE DEVICES

We are currently  developing  SiC-based high power  transistors  that operate at
radio and microwave frequencies. We believe these devices will have applications
in  wireless  base  stations,  high  power  solid-state  broadcast  systems  for
television and radio and radar search and detection  equipment.  These SiC-based
devices are targeted for frequencies from 30 megahertz to 4 gigahertz, including
third  generation,  or 3G transmitter site networks.  We believe that future SiC
transistors in development, with higher output power per transistor than current
silicon  and  GaAs-based  devices,  will  allow  wireless  systems  to use fewer
transistors  per base  station,  resulting  in less  complex  circuitry,  higher
linearity and lower cost. New higher power devices are targeted for introduction
in  fiscal  2001 on a  sample  basis.  We have  also  demonstrated  50  watts of
continuous  wave power at 2 gigahertz in a complete  amplifier from a single SiC
transistor.

We are also developing  GaN-based  microwave  transistors on SiC substrates that
are  targeted  for  higher  frequency  applications  (10  to 30  gigahertz).  We
previously  reported the  demonstration  of GaN on SiC transistors that operated
with an output  power of 40 watts at 10  gigahertz  which we  believe  to be the
highest  publicly  reported  pulsed  power  output  for a single  device at this
frequency.  We also  reported  a record  high  power  density  of 9.8  watts per
millimeter, continuous wave, at 8.2 gigahertz on smaller GaN devices. This power
density is higher  than that  achieved  with  equivalent  silicon or  GaAs-based
devices. We do not anticipate that a commercial device capable of emitting power
at this level will be available in the near term.

                                      -9-


<PAGE>
POWER DEVICES

We are developing  prototype  high power devices that have many potential  uses.
Such devices could be employed in applications  involving power  conditioning as
well as power  switching.  SiC-based  power devices have the potential to handle
significantly  higher power  densities than existing  silicon-based  devices and
operate  at  significantly   higher  temperatures  and  voltages  with  superior
switching  capabilities,  yielding  power  savings  due  to  higher  efficiency.
Potential  applications  include power drive  components for electric  vehicles,
lighting ballast  components,  industrial motor controls and power  conditioning
for high voltage  power  transmission.  In early fiscal 1999,  we entered into a
three-year project with Kansai Electric Power Company,  one of the largest power
companies in the world,  for  development of SiC-based  devices for use in power
transmission networks. Under this program, we recently demonstrated a 12 kV high
efficiency  SiC rectifier for use in electric power  switching.  We believe this
voltage  level was higher than any  previously  reported for a single  rectifier
device. We do not anticipate that a commercial device capable of switching power
at this voltage level will be available in the near term.

BLUE AND NEAR ULTRAVIOLET LASER DIODES

We  continue  to focus on the  development  of blue and near  ultraviolet  laser
diodes. SiC's inherent  attributes,  including its natural cleavability and high
thermal conductivity, make it an excellent substrate material for development of
such short wavelength laser diodes.  The storage capacity of optical disk drives
can be increased  significantly  by utilizing a laser diode  capable of emitting
shorter  wavelength  light. We have demonstrated in the laboratory a short-lived
blue laser diode, fabricated from nitride materials deposited on SiC substrates,
which has a shorter  wavelength  than that of the red or infrared lasers used in
applications  today. We believe that the shorter  wavelength of blue light could
potentially  result  in  storage  capacity  for  optical  disk  drives  that  is
significantly  greater  than the capacity  permitted  by red light.  Substantial
research  and  development  work is needed for us to produce a short  wavelength
laser suitable for consumer applications. In May 1999 we entered into a one-year
development  agreement  with  Microvision,  Inc.,  or  Microvision,  under which
Microvision  provided $2.6 million in funding for us to conduct research in edge
emitting LEDs and laser diodes. In April 2000, the agreement was extended for an
additional two years with Microvision providing funding of $4.5 million and $5.5
million in the first and second years of the program, respectively.

LEDs WITH HIGHER LUMINOUS EFFICIENCY

In May 2000, we acquired  Nitres,  Inc., (now a wholly owned subsidiary known as
Cree  Lighting  Company,  or Cree  Lighting)  with  operations  based in Goleta,
California.  Cree Lighting is engaged in the  development  of new LED device and
manufacturing  technology,  with the goal of developing  higher  efficiency  LED
technology  necessary  for LEDs to compete  with  incandescent  and  fluorescent
lighting  technology  for  conventional  lighting  markets.  In July 2000,  Cree
Lighting  demonstrated a near ultraviolet LED made using nitride  materials on a
sapphire  substrate  with a  power  output  of 17 mW and  28%  external  quantum
efficiency.  This is the highest  known  external  quantum  efficiency  publicly
reported for an LED in the UV-to-blue  portion of the wavelength  spectrum.  Our
goal is to begin  production of products  using this new  development  in fiscal
2001.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACT FUNDING
- ---------------------------

We derive a portion of our revenue with funding from research contracts with the
U.S.  Government.  For the fiscal years ended June 25,  2000,  June 27, 1999 and
June 28, 1998, government funding represented

                                      -10-

<PAGE>
11%, 14% and 21% of total revenue, respectively. These contracts typically cover
work  performed over several  months up to three years.  These  contracts may be
modified or  terminated  at the  convenience  of the  government.  The contracts
generally  provide that we may elect to obtain title to  inventions  made in the
course of research,  with the  government  retaining a  nonexclusive  license to
practice such inventions for government purposes.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
- ------------------------

We invest  significant  resources in research and development aimed at improving
our semiconductor materials and developing new device and production technology.
Our core SiC  materials  research  is  directed  to  improving  the  quality and
diameter of our SiC  substrates.  We are also  working to improve the quality of
the SiC and  nitride  epitaxial  materials  we grow to  produce  devices  and to
improve device yields by reducing variability in our processes.

We spent $20.0  million in fiscal  2000,  $12.1  million in fiscal 1999 and $9.9
million  in  fiscal  1998 for  direct  expenditures  relating  to  research  and
development  activities.  Off-setting  these  expenditures were $12.7 million in
fiscal 2000, $9.0 million in fiscal 1999 and $9.7 million in fiscal 1998 of U.S.
Government funding for direct and indirect research and development expenses. In
addition,  certain customers have also sponsored research  activities related to
the development of new products.  Customers  contributed  $5.5 million in fiscal
2000,  $4.5  million in fiscal 1999 and $ 3.5 million in fiscal 1998 towards our
product research and development activities.

SALES AND MARKETING
- -------------------

We  actively  market  our wafer and  optoelectronic  products  through  targeted
mailings,  telemarketing,  select  advertising and attendance at trade shows. We
generally use an executive sales approach,  relying predominantly on the efforts
of senior management and a small direct sales staff for worldwide product sales.
We believe that this approach is preferable in view of our current customer base
and product mix,  particularly since the production of lamp and display products
incorporating  LED chips is  concentrated  among a  relatively  small  number of
manufacturers.  However, we depart from this approach for sales to certain Asian
countries.  In Japan,  we market our LED  products  and SiC wafers  through  our
distributors Sumitomo Corporation, or Sumitomo, and Shin-Etsu Handotai Co. Ltd.,
or Shin-Etsu.  We also use sales  representatives  to market our LED products in
Hong Kong, China,  Taiwan and South Korea. We sell SiC crystal materials for use
in gemstone applications directly to C&C under an exclusive supply agreement. We
are using both direct sales and sales  representative  arrangements to market RF
products. We have engaged nine representatives for our RF products in the United
States. We have not yet engaged sales representatives or made other distribution
arrangements for our RF products outside the United States.

CUSTOMERS
- ---------

During  fiscal  2000,  revenues  from three  customers-  Siemens AG, or Siemens,
Sumitomo and C&C each accounted for more than 10% of total revenue. For the year
ended June 27,  1999,  and June 28,  1998,  revenue  from  Siemens,  C&C and the
Department  of Defense each  accounted for more than 10% of total  revenue.  For
financial  information  about  foreign and  domestic  sales,  please see Note 2,
"Summary of  Significant  Accounting  Policies"  to our  consolidated  financial
statements included in Item 8 of this report.

                                      -11-
<PAGE>
BACKLOG
- -------

As of June 25,  2000,  we had a firm  backlog  of  approximately  $76.5  million
consisting of  approximately  $55.1 million of product  orders and $21.4 million
under research contracts signed with the U.S.  Government,  a portion which have
not yet  been  appropriated.  This  compares  to a firm  backlog  level of $42.3
million as of June 27, 1999, which consisted of  approximately  $25.6 million of
product orders and approximately $16.7 million of research contracts signed with
the U.S. Government. We believe the entire backlog could be filled during fiscal
2001, with the exception of approximately $9.3 million in U.S. government funded
contracts.

MANUFACTURING
- -------------

Our products are manufactured in a six-part process, which includes: SiC crystal
growth, wafer slicing, polishing, epitaxial deposition, fabrication, and testing
and  packaging.  SiC crystals  are grown using a  proprietary  high  temperature
process  designed  to produce  uniform  crystals in a single  crystalline  form.
Crystals used for moissanite  gemstones exit the  manufacturing  process at this
stage.  Crystals used for other products are then sliced into wafers. The wafers
are polished and then processed using our epitaxial deposition processes,  which
require that we grow thin layers of SiC,  GaN or other  material on the polished
wafer,  depending  on the  nature  of the  device  under  production.  SiC wafer
products may leave the manufacturing  process either after polishing or epitaxy.
Following epitaxy,  LED and RF chips are fabricated in a clean room environment.
The final steps include  testing and packaging for shipment to the customer.  In
manufacturing  our products we depend  substantially on our  custom-manufactured
equipment and systems,  some of which are  manufactured  internally  and some of
which we acquire from third parties and customize ourselves.

SOURCES OF RAW MATERIALS
- ------------------------

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components
and equipment used in our SiC products and LEDs, including certain key materials
and  equipment  used  in our  crystal  growth,  wafering,  polishing,  epitaxial
deposition,  device fabrication and device test processes. We generally purchase
these limited  source items  pursuant to purchase  orders and have no guaranteed
supply arrangements with our suppliers.  In addition,  the availability of these
materials, components and equipment to us is dependent in part on our ability to
provide our suppliers  with accurate  forecasts of our future  requirements.  We
endeavor to maintain ongoing  communication  with our suppliers to guard against
interruptions  in  supply  and,  to date,  generally  have  been  able to obtain
adequate  supplies in a timely manner from our existing  sources.  However,  any
interruption in the supply of these key materials, components or equipment could
have a significant adverse effect on our operations.

COMPETITION
- -----------

The  semiconductor  industry is intensely  competitive and is  characterized  by
rapid technological  change, price erosion and intense foreign  competition.  We
believe that we currently enjoy a favorable position in the existing markets for
SiC-based  products  and  materials.  However,  we  face  actual  and  potential
competition  from a number of established  domestic and  international  compound
semiconductor  companies.  Many of these  companies  have  greater  engineering,
manufacturing, marketing and financial resources than we have.

                                      -12-

<PAGE>
Our  primary  competition  for blue and green LED  products  comes  from  Nichia
Chemical  Industries,  Ltd.,  or Nichia,  Toyoda  Gosei Co.  Ltd.  and Lumi Leds
Lighting,  a joint venture between Agilent  Technologies  and Philips  Lighting.
These companies  currently  market blue and green LED products that are brighter
than our high  brightness  blue and green LED  devices.  In  addition,  Uniroyal
Technologies,  Inc.,  American Xtal  Technology,  Lucky Goldstar and other Asian
based companies have announced  intentions to begin production of blue and green
LEDs, all on sapphire  substrates.  Some of our existing  competitors  have been
more successful than us in the market for outdoor display  applications  because
of the brightness  demands of outdoor  displays,  as well as the decreased price
sensitivity  of the outdoor  display  market.  We believe our brighter  blue and
green LEDs have enabled us to compete  successfully  in this market  because our
LEDs often can be used in the same  applications  at a lower cost than competing
products.  We are  working on plans to  improve  the  brightness  of our LEDs to
enhance our ability to compete in this  market.  We believe that our approach to
manufacturing   blue  and  green  LEDs  from  SiC   substrates   offers  a  more
cost-effective  design  and  process  than  competitors,   who  use  a  sapphire
substrate.  Our  smaller  chip  design,  which  is  possible  because  we  use a
conductive  substrate,  permits  more  devices  to be  fabricated  on each wafer
processed,  which lowers our cost per unit. In addition,  our industry  standard
vertical  chip  structure  allows  manufacturers  to package the LED on the same
production  line as other green,  amber and red LEDs,  eliminating  the need for
special   equipment   necessary  for  chips  made  from   sapphire   substrates.
Furthermore,  our  SiC-based  devices can  withstand a higher  level of ESD than
existing   sapphire-based   products  and   therefore   are  more  suitable  for
applications  that  require  high  ESD  emission  ratings,  such  as  automotive
applications.

In  addition  to  competitor  using  alternative  LED  technology,  Osram  OS is
currently  producing LEDs using technology  licensed from us in 1995.  Shin-Etsu
has also  licensed  certain  of our LED  technology  in 1996  but has not  begun
production  under this  license.  The market  for SiC  wafers  also is  becoming
competitive,  as other  companies  in recent years have begun to offer SiC wafer
products or announced plans to do so.

PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS
- ------------------------------

We seek to protect our  proprietary  technology  by applying  for patents  where
appropriate and in other cases by preserving the technology and related know-how
and  information  as trade  secrets.  We have also  from time to time  acquired,
through  license  grants  or  assignments,   rights  to  patents  on  inventions
originally developed by others.

At June 25, 2000 we owned or held exclusive  rights licensed under a total of 70
issued U.S. patents,  subject in some cases to nonexclusive  license rights held
by third  parties.  These  patents  expire  between 2007 and 2018.  Two of these
patents  are  jointly  owned with a third  party.  In  addition,  we own or hold
exclusive license rights under corresponding  patents and patent applications in
certain foreign countries.

Included in the patent licenses we hold is an exclusive license granted by North
Carolina  State  University,   or  N.C.  State,  to  10  U.S.  patents,  and  to
corresponding foreign patents and applications, that relate to SiC materials and
device technology,  including a process to grow single crystal SiC. The license,
granted  pursuant  to an  agreement  executed  with  N.C.  State in  1987,  is a
worldwide,  fully paid, exclusive license to manufacture,  use and sell products
and processes covered by the claims of patent  applications  filed by N.C. State
relating to the licensed  inventions.  Ten U.S. patents were subsequently issued
with respect to the  applications,  with expiration dates between 2007 and 2009.
Twelve of the foreign  applications  have been issued with expiration dates from
2006 to 2013. The U.S. government holds a non-exclusive  license to practice the
inventions  covered by the N.C. State license for government  purposes.  We have
also  entered  into  other  license  agreements  with N.C.  State,  and with the
licensing

                                      -13-

<PAGE>
agencies of other universities,  under which we have obtained rights to practice
inventions claimed in various patents and applications  issued or pending in the
U.S. and other foreign countries.

For proprietary technology which is not patented or otherwise published, we seek
to protect the technology and related  know-how and information as trade secrets
and to maintain it in confidence through appropriate  non-disclosure  agreements
with employees and others to whom the information is disclosed.  There can be no
assurance  that these  agreements  will provide  meaningful  protection  against
unauthorized  disclosure  or use of our  confidential  information  or that  our
proprietary   technology  and  know-how  will  not  otherwise  become  known  or
independently  discovered  by  others.  We also  rely  upon  other  intellectual
property rights such as copyright where appropriate.

Because of rapid technological  developments in the semiconductor  industry, the
patent position of any semiconductor materials or device manufacturer, including
ours,  is subject to  uncertainties  and may involve  complex  legal and factual
issues.  Consequently,  there can be no assurance that patents will be issued on
any of the pending  applications  owned or licensed to us or that claims allowed
in any patents issued or licensed to us will not be contested or invalidated. In
the past, the U.S.  patent that we license from N.C. State relating to growth of
SiC was subject to a reissue proceeding;  however,  that patent was successfully
reissued.  Currently,  a corresponding  European patent is being opposed,  which
means that we could lose patent  protection in Europe for this particular method
or that the scope of our patent protection may be reduced.  There is likewise no
assurance  that patent rights owned or  exclusively  licensed to us will provide
significant  commercial  protection  since issuance of a patent does not prevent
other companies from using alternative,  non-infringing technology.  Further, we
earn a material  amount of our revenues in overseas  markets.  While we hold and
have  applied for patent  protection  for certain of our  technologies  in these
markets,  there  can be no  assurance  that we  will  obtain  protection  in all
commercially  significant  foreign  markets  or that our  intellectual  property
rights will provide adequate protection in all such markets.

In December 1999, one of our  distributors  in Japan,  Sumitomo,  was named in a
lawsuit filed by Nichia in Tokyo District  Court.  As previously  reported,  the
complaint in this proceeding is directed to our standard brightness LED products
and alleges that these products infringe a Japanese patent owned by Nichia.  The
suit seeks a permanent  injunction against further  distribution of the products
in Japan. We have intervened in the proceeding and filed a response  denying the
allegations  of  infringement.  In April 2000,  Nichia  commenced two additional
lawsuits  against  Sumitomo in Tokyo District Court in which it alleges that our
high brightness LED products  infringe a second Japanese patent owned by Nichia.
The complaints in the new proceedings seek provisional and permanent  injunctive
relief  prohibiting  Sumitomo from further sales of these products in Japan.  We
have  intervened in the new  proceedings  and have filed  responses  denying the
allegations of  infringement.  No monetary  damages for  infringement  have been
sought in any of the lawsuits  brought by Nichia  against  Sumitomo.  Management
believes  that the  infringement  claims are without merit and that the lawsuits
are  motivated  by  competitive  factors.  We intend to  vigorously  defend  our
products against these claims.

Frequent  claims and  litigation  involving  patents and  intellectual  property
rights are common in the semiconductor industry.  Litigation may be necessary in
the future to enforce our  intellectual  property rights or to defend us against
claims of  infringement,  and such  litigation  can be protracted and costly and
divert the  attention of key  personnel.  There can be no  assurance  that third
parties will not attempt to assert  infringement  claims against us with respect
to our current or future  products.  We have been  notified from time to time of
assertions  that our products or processes  may be  infringing  patents or other
intellectual  property rights of others.  We have  investigated  such claims and
determined the assertions  were without merit or taken steps to obtain a license
or avoid the  infringement.  However,  we cannot

                                      -14-

<PAGE>
predict  whether  past or  future  assertions  of  infringement  may  result  in
litigation  or the  extent to which  such  assertions  may  require us to seek a
license  under the rights  asserted or whether a license  would be  available or
available on acceptable  terms.  Likewise,  we cannot  predict the occurrence of
future  assertions of  infringement  that may prevent us from selling  products,
result in litigation or require us to pay damage awards.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
- ------------------------

The Company is subject to a variety of  governmental  regulations  pertaining to
chemical and waste  discharges and other aspects of our  manufacturing  process.
For example, we are responsible for the management of the hazardous materials we
use and dispose of hazardous waste resulting from our manufacturing process. The
proper handling and disposal of such hazardous material and waste requires us to
comply with certain government regulations. We believe we are in full compliance
with such  regulations,  but any  failure  to  comply,  whether  intentional  or
inadvertent, could have an adverse effect on our business.

EMPLOYEES
- ---------

As of June 25,  2000,  the Company  (including  its  subsidiaries)  employed 680
people,  including  524  in  manufacturing  operations,   110  in  research  and
development,  and 46 in sales and general administration.  None of our employees
is represented by a labor union or subject to collective bargaining  agreements.
We believe relations with our employees are strong.

CERTAIN BUSINESS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
- ----------------------------------------

OUR  OPERATING  RESULTS MAY  FLUCTUATE  SIGNIFICANTLY  AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
MAINTAIN OUR EXISTING GROWTH RATE.

Although we have had significant revenue and earnings growth in recent quarters,
we  may  not be  able  to  sustain  these  growth  rates  and we may  experience
significant fluctuations in our revenue and earnings in the future.

Our operating results will depend on many factors, including the following:

     o our ability to develop, manufacture and deliver products in  a timely and
       cost-effective  manner;
     o whether we encounter low levels  of usable  product  produced during each
       manufacturing step (our "yield");
     o our ability to expand our production of SiC wafers and devices;
     o our ability to produce higher brightness products;
     o demand for our products or our customers' products;
     o competition; and
     o general industry and global economic conditions.

Our future  operating  results  could be  adversely  affected  by these or other
factors.  If our future  operating  results are below the  expectations of stock
market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline.

IF WE EXPERIENCE POOR PRODUCTION YIELDS, OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY SUFFER.

Our SiC material  products and our LED and RF device  products are  manufactured
using  technologies  that are highly  complex.  Our  customers  incorporate  our
products into high volume applications such as

                                      -15-

<PAGE>
automotive  dashboards,   wireless  handsets,  full  color  video  displays  and
gemstones,  and they  insist that our  products  meet exact  specifications  for
quality, performance and reliability.

The  number  of  usable  crystals,  wafers  and  devices  that  result  from our
production  processes can  fluctuate as a result of many factors,  including but
not  limited  to  the  following:

     o impurities in the materials used;
     o contamination of the manufacturing environment;
     o equipment failure, power outages or variations in the manufacturing
       process;
     o losses from broken wafers or other human error; and
     o defects in packaging.

Because many of our  manufacturing  costs are fixed,  if our yields decrease our
operating  results  would  be  adversely  affected.  For  this  reason,  we  are
constantly  trying to  improve  our  yields.  In the past,  we have  experienced
difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on new products, which has adversely
affected our operating results. We may experience similar problems in the future
and we cannot  predict  when they may occur or their  severity.  These  problems
could significantly affect our future operating results.

THERE ARE LIMITATIONS ON OUR ABILITY TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.

Our intellectual  property  position is based in part on patents owned by us and
patents  exclusively  licensed  to us by N.C.  State and  others.  The  licensed
patents include patents relating to our SiC crystal growth process. We intend to
continue to file patent  applications in the future,  where appropriate,  and to
pursue such applications with U.S. and foreign patent authorities, but we cannot
be sure that patents will be issued on such applications or that our existing or
future patents will not be  successfully  contested.  Also,  since issuance of a
valid  patent  does  not  prevent  other   companies  from  using   alternative,
non-infringing technology, we cannot be sure that any of our patents (or patents
issued  to  others  and  licensed  to us) will  provide  significant  commercial
protection.  In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets and
other non-patented  proprietary  information relating to our product development
and  manufacturing   activities.   We  try  to  protect  this  information  with
confidentiality  agreements  with our employees and other parties.  We cannot be
sure that these  agreements  will not be breached,  that we would have  adequate
remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets and proprietary  know-how will
not otherwise become known or independently discovered by others.

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PRODUCE ADEQUATE QUANTITIES OF OUR HIGH BRIGHTNESS LEDs, OUR
OPERATING RESULTS MAY SUFFER.

We believe that higher volume  production of high brightness blue and green LEDs
will be important to our future  operating  results.  Achieving  greater volumes
requires improved production yields for these products. Successful production of
these products is subject to a number of risks, including the following:

     o our ability to consistently manufacture these products in volumes large
       enough to cover our fixed costs and satisfy our customers' requirements;
       and
     o our ability to improve our yields and reduce the costs associated with
       the manufacture of these products.

Our inability to produce  adequate  quantities of our high  brightness  blue and
green products would have a material adverse effect on our business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

                                      -16-

<PAGE>
OUR OPERATING  RESULTS ARE  SUBSTANTIALLY  DEPENDENT ON THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF NEW
PRODUCTS BASED ON OUR CORE SIC TECHNOLOGY.

Our future  success will depend on our ability to develop new SiC  solutions for
existing  and new  markets.  We must  introduce  new  products  in a timely  and
cost-effective  manner, and we must secure production orders from our customers.
The  development  of new SiC products is a highly complex  process,  and we have
historically  experienced  delays in completing the development and introduction
of new products.  Products currently under development include high power RF and
microwave devices,  power devices,  blue laser diodes,  high temperature devices
and higher brightness LED products.  The successful development and introduction
of these products depends on a number of factors, including the following:

     o achievement of technology breakthroughs required to make commercially
       viable devices;
     o the accuracy of our predictions of market requirements and evolving
       standards;
     o acceptance of our new product designs;
     o the availability of qualified development personnel;
     o our timely completion of product designs and development;
     o our ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new products
       in sufficient quantities for commercial sales;
     o our customers' ability to develop applications incorporating our
       products; and
     o acceptance of our customers' products by the market.

If any of these  or  other  factors  become  problematic,  we may not be able to
develop and introduce these new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner.

WE DEPEND ON A FEW LARGE CUSTOMERS.

Historically, a substantial portion of our revenue has come from large purchases
by a small number of customers.  We expect that trend to continue.  For example,
for fiscal 2000 our top five  customers  accounted for 82% of our total revenue.
Accordingly,  our future operating  results depend on the success of our largest
customers  and on our success in selling  large  quantities  of our  products to
them.  The  concentration  of our revenues with a few large  customers  makes us
particularly  dependent on factors  affecting those customers.  For example,  if
demand for their products  decreases,  they may stop purchasing our products and
our operating  results will suffer.  If we lose a large customer and fail to add
new customers to replace lost revenue, our operating results may not recover.

WE  FACE  CHALLENGES RELATING TO EXPANSION  OF OUR  PRODUCTION AND MANUFACTURING
FACILITY.

In order to increase  production at our new  facility,  we must add critical new
equipment,  move existing  equipment and complete the  construction and upfit of
buildings.  Expansion activities such as these are subject to a number of risks,
including unforeseen  environmental or engineering problems relating to existing
or new facilities or unavailability or late delivery of the advanced,  and often
customized,  equipment  used in the  production of our  products,  and delays in
bringing  production  equipment  on-line.  These and other  risks may affect the
construction  of new  facilities,  which could  adversely  affect our  business,
results of operations and financial condition.

                                      -17-
<PAGE>
THE MARKETS IN WHICH WE OPERATE ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE.

The market for our products is highly  competitive.  Our  competitors  currently
sell blue and green LEDs made from  sapphire  wafers that are brighter  than the
high brightness  LEDs we currently  produce.  In addition,  new firms have begun
offering or  announced  plans to offer blue and green  LEDs.  The market for SiC
wafers is also  becoming  competitive  as other firms have in recent years begun
offering  SiC  wafer  products  or  announced  plans  to do so.  We also  expect
significant competition for products we are currently developing,  such as those
for use in microwave communications.

We expect  competition  to  increase.  This  could  mean  lower  prices  for our
products,  reduced demand for our products and a corresponding  reduction in our
ability to recover  development,  engineering and  manufacturing  costs.  Any of
these  developments  could have an adverse  effect on our  business,  results of
operations and financial condition.

WE FACE SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGES MANAGING OUR GROWTH.

We have  experienced  a period  of  significant  growth  that has  strained  our
management and other resources. We have grown from 188 employees on December 31,
1996 to 680  employees on June 25, 2000 and from  revenues of $44.0  million for
the fiscal year ended June 28, 1998 to $108.6  million for the fiscal year ended
June 25, 2000. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to:

     o implement and improve operation systems;
     o maintain adequate manufacturing facilities and equipment to meet customer
       demand;
     o add experienced senior level managers; and
     o attract and retain qualified people with experience in engineering,
       design, technical marketing support.

We will spend substantial amounts of money in supporting our growth and may have
additional  unexpected  costs.  Our systems,  procedures  or controls may not be
adequate to support  our  operations,  and we may not be able to expand  quickly
enough to exploit potential market  opportunities.  Our future operating results
will also depend on expanding sales and marketing, research and development, and
administrative  support.  If we cannot attract qualified people or manage growth
effectively,  our business  operating  results and financial  condition could be
adversely affected.

OUR  OPERATING  RESULTS  COULD BE ADVERSELY  AFFECTED IF WE  ENCOUNTER  PROBLEMS
TRANSITIONING LED PRODUCTION TO A LARGER WAFER SIZE.

Beginning in fiscal 2001, we plan to begin shifting LED production from two-inch
wafers to three-inch  wafers. We must first qualify our production  processes on
systems  designed to accommodate the larger wafer size, and some of our existing
production  equipment must be refitted for the larger wafer size. Delays in this
process could have an adverse effect on our business.  In addition,  in the past
we have experienced  lower yields for a period of time following a transition to
a larger  wafer  size  until  use of the  larger  wafer is fully  integrated  in
production and we begin to achieve production efficiency.  We anticipate that we
will experience  similar temporary yield reductions during the transition to the
three-inch  wafers,  and we have  factored  this  into our  plan for  production
capacity.  If this  transition  phase  takes  longer than we expect or if we are
unable to attain  expected  yield  improvements,  our  operating  results may be
adversely affected.

                                      -18-

<PAGE>
WE RELY ON A FEW KEY SUPPLIERS.

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components
and equipment used in  manufacturing  our SiC products,  including key materials
and  equipment  used in  critical  stages  of our  manufacturing  processes.  We
generally  purchase these limited source items with purchase orders, and we have
no guaranteed supply  arrangements with such suppliers.  If we were to lose such
key  suppliers,  our  manufacturing  efforts  could be  hampered  significantly.
Although we believe  our  relationship  with our  suppliers  is good,  we cannot
assure  you that we will  continue  to  maintain  good  relationships  with such
suppliers or that such suppliers will continue to exist.

IF  GOVERNMENT  AGENCIES OR OTHER  CUSTOMERS  DISCONTINUE  THEIR FUNDING FOR OUR
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF SIC TECHNOLOGY, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER.

In the past,  government  agencies and other customers have funded a significant
portion  of  our  research  and  development  activities.  If  this  support  is
discontinued  or reduced,  our ability to develop or enhance  products  could be
limited and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be
adversely affected.

OUR OPERATIONS COULD INFRINGE UPON THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS.

Other  companies may hold or obtain patents on inventions or may otherwise claim
proprietary rights to technology necessary to our business. We cannot assure you
that third  parties will not attempt to assert  infringement  claims  against us
with respect to our current or future products,  including our core products. We
cannot  predict  the  extent to which  such  assertions  may  require us to seek
licenses or, if required,  whether such  licenses  will be offered or offered on
acceptable terms or that disputes can be resolved without litigation. Litigation
to determine the validity of  infringement,  or claims alleged by third parties,
could  result  in  significant  expense  to us and  divert  the  efforts  of our
technical and management personnel,  whether or not the litigation is ultimately
determined in our favor. We cannot predict the occurrence of future intellectual
property claims that may prevent us from selling products,  result in litigation
or give rise to indemnification obligations or damage claims.

IF AN ADVERSE  JUDGEMENT  IS  ENTERED  IN THE  PENDING  PATENT  LITIGATION,  OUR
BUSINESS MAY SUFFER.

Our  distributor  in Japan is currently a party to patent  litigation  in Japan,
brought by Nichia,  in which Nichia  claims that our LED  products  infringe two
Japanese  patents it owns. The  complaints in the  proceedings  seek  injunctive
relief  that  would  prohibit  our  distributor  from  further  sales of our LED
products  in Japan.  A result  adverse to the  distributor  in these cases would
impair our ability to sell both our standard  brightness and high brightness LED
products in Japan. Subject to contractual limitations,  we have an obligation to
indemnify our distributor for certain patent infringement claims.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS FROM INTERNATIONAL SALES.

Sales to customers located outside the U.S. accounted for about 69%, 59% and 58%
of our  revenue in fiscal  2000,  1999 and 1998,  respectively.  We expect  that
revenue from  international  sales will continue to be a significant part of our
total revenue.  International sales are subject to a variety of risks, including
risks arising from  currency  fluctuations,  the emergence of the Euro,  trading
restrictions,  tariffs,  trade  barriers and taxes.  Also,  U.S.  Government  or
military  export  restrictions  could limit or prohibit  sales to  customers  in
certain   countries   because  of  their  uses  in  military   or   surveillance
applications.  Because all

                                      -19-

<PAGE>
of our foreign sales are denominated in U.S.  dollars,  our products become less
price  competitive in countries with currencies that are low or are declining in
value against the U.S.  dollar.  Also, we cannot be sure that our  international
customers will continue to place orders denominated in U.S. dollars.  If they do
not,  our  reported  revenue and  earnings  will be subject to foreign  exchange
fluctuations.

Item 2.  Properties

We operate our own facilities in Durham, North Carolina. Direct control over SiC
crystal growth,  wafering,  epitaxial  deposition,  device  fabrication and test
operations  allows us to shorten our product design and production cycles and to
protect our proprietary technology and processes.  In November 1997, we acquired
our present  manufacturing  facility, a 30-acre industrial site in Durham, North
Carolina,  consisting of a 139,000  square foot  production  facility and 33,000
square feet of service and warehouse buildings.  In the second quarter of fiscal
2000, we completed a 42,000 square foot expansion of this  facility.  During the
third quarter of fiscal 2000, we purchased a 120,000  square foot shell building
on 17.5 acres of land near the existing  production site that we plan to use for
administrative offices and as an employee services center. We are upfitting this
facility and have plans to begin using  portions of it in the second  quarter of
fiscal 2001. In addition,  we are currently engaged in construction of a 250,000
square foot expansion of our main facility to provide added capacity for our LED
and materials  production  and future product  lines.  We are targeting  primary
phases of this project to be finished in fiscal 2001, with the balance  targeted
for completion in fiscal 2002.

We lease approximately  21,900 square feet in Durham, North Carolina for support
of our  manufacturing  and  administrative  activities.  This  lease  expires in
December  2001.  We also lease  approximately  13,200  square feet in a separate
building in Durham,  North Carolina that is used for RF production and microwave
research and  development.  This lease  expires in August 2002. We lease a 3,000
square  foot  facility  in  Goleta,  California  for  research  and  development
activities of Cree Lighting.  This lease expires in April 2001. Finally we lease
facilities for two small administrative offices in West Lake Village, California
and Clearwater,  Florida. The first lease is on a month to month renewal and the
other expires in December 2000.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

In December 1999, one of our  distributors  in Japan,  Sumitomo,  was named in a
lawsuit  filed  by  Nichia  in  Tokyo  District  Court.  The  complaint  in this
proceeding is directed to our standard  brightness LED products and alleges that
these  products  infringe a Japanese  patent  owned by Nichia.  The suit seeks a
permanent  injunction against further  distribution of the products in Japan. We
have  intervened in the proceeding and filed a response  denying the allegations
of infringement. In April 2000, Nichia commenced two additional lawsuits against
Sumitomo in Tokyo  District  Court in which it alleges that our high  brightness
LED products  infringe a second Japanese patent owned by Nichia.  The complaints
in  the  new  proceedings  seek  provisional  and  permanent  injunctive  relief
prohibiting  Sumitomo  from further  sales of these  products in Japan.  We have
intervened  in  the  new  proceedings  and  have  filed  responses  denying  the
allegations of  infringement.  No monetary  damages for  infringement  have been
sought in any of the lawsuits  brought by Nichia  against  Sumitomo.  Management
believes  that the  infringement  claims are without merit and that the lawsuits
are  motivated  by  competitive  factors.  We intend to  vigorously  defend  our
products against these claims.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No  matters  were  submitted  to a vote of  security  holders  during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2000.

                                      -20-

<PAGE>
                                     PART II

Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Common Stock Market  Information.  The  Company's  common stock is traded in the
NASDAQ  National  Market and is quoted under the symbol  "CREE".  The  following
table sets forth,  for the  quarters  indicated,  the high and low bid prices as
reported  by  NASDAQ.   Quotations  represent   interdealer  prices  without  an
adjustment for retail  markups,  markdowns or commissions  and may not represent
actual transactions.

                          FY 2000                       FY 1999*
                          -------                       --------
                      High       Low                High        Low

First Quarter      $ 44.750    $23.500            $ 8.750     $ 5.250
Second Quarter       79.000     32.125             23.500       6.813
Third Quarter       202.000     66.625             26.625      15.125
Fourth Quarter      175.000     83.000             36.688      18.625

      *As adjusted for the two-for-one split effective on July 26, 1999.


Holders and  Dividends.  There were  approximately  530 holders of record of the
Company's common stock as of August 4, 2000.

The  Company  has never paid cash  dividends  on its  Common  Stock and does not
anticipate  that  it  will  do  so in  the  foreseeable  future.  There  are  no
contractual restrictions in place that currently materially limit, or are likely
in the future to  materially  limit,  the Company  from paying  dividends on its
common stock, but applicable  state law may limit the payment of dividends.  The
present  policy of the Company is to retain  earnings,  if any, to provide funds
for the operation and expansion of its business.

On May 1, 2000, the Company  acquired all of the  outstanding  shares of Nitres,
Inc. from its  shareholders  in exchange for  1,847,746  shares of the Company's
common stock.  The issuance of shares of the  Company's  common stock was exempt
from registration pursuant to Section 3(a)(10) of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the "Securities  Act"), as a result of a fairness hearing  conducted by
the Securities  Administrator  of the Office of the North Carolina  Secretary of
State.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The  consolidated  statement of operations  data set forth below with respect to
the  years  ended  June 25,  2000,  June 27,  1999  and June 28,  1998,  and the
consolidated  balance  sheet data at June 25, 2000 and June 27, 1999 are derived
from,  and are  qualified by reference  to, the audited  consolidated  financial
statements  included  elsewhere in this report and should be read in conjunction
with those financial statements and notes thereto. The consolidated statement of
operations data for the years ended June 30, 1997 and 1996 and the  consolidated
balance sheet data at June 28, 1998, and June 30, 1997 and 1996 are derived from
audited consolidated  financial statements not included herein. All consolidated
statement of  operations  and  consolidated  balance  sheet data shown below are
adjusted to reflect the acquisition of Nitres,  Inc. effective May 1, 2000. This
transaction was accounted for under the pooling of interests  method.  All share
amounts  have been  restated to reflect the  Company's  two-for-one  stock split
effective July 26, 1999.

                                      -21-

<PAGE>
<TABLE>

                                         Selected Consolidated Financial Data
                                        (In thousands, except per share data)
<CAPTION>

                                                                          Years Ended
                                                    --------------------------------------------------------
                                                    June 25,    June 27,    June 28,    June 30,    June 30,
                                                      2000        1999        1998        1997        1996
                                                    --------    --------    --------    --------    --------
<S>                                                 <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Statement of Operations Data:
Product revenue, net                                $ 96,742    $ 53,424    $ 34,891    $ 19,823    $  9,689
Contract revenue, net                                 11,820       8,977       9,071       7,025       3,960
License fee income                                      --          --          --         2,615       1,423
                                                    --------     -------    --------    --------    --------
Total revenue                                        108,562      62,401      43,962      29,463      15,072

Income from continuing operations                   $ 30,520    $ 12,448    $  6,243    $  3,650        $231

Net income per share, basic                            $0.93       $0.43       $0.23       $0.14       $0.01
Net income per share, dilutive                         $0.87       $0.41       $0.22       $0.13       $0.01

Weighted average shares outstanding-diluted           35,217      30,432      28,987      28,251      25,230


<CAPTION>
                                                                          Years Ended
                                                    --------------------------------------------------------
                                                    June 25,    June 27,    June 28,    June 30,    June 30,
                                                      2000        1999        1998        1997        1996
                                                    --------    --------    --------    --------    --------
<S>                                                 <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Balance Sheet Data:
Working capital                                     $265,957    $ 59,889    $ 28,265    $ 21,121    $ 18,584
Total assets                                         486,202     145,933      74,379      50,568      43,811
Long-term obligations                                   --         4,650      11,046       1,638        --
Shareholders' equity                                 463,140     131,001      55,905      45,236      40,660
</TABLE>













                                      -22-
<PAGE>
Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

All statements,  trend analysis and other information contained in the following
discussion  relative to markets for our  products  and trends in revenue,  gross
margins, and anticipated expense levels, as well as other statements,  including
words  such as  "may,"  "will,"  "anticipate,"  "believe,"  "plan,"  "estimate,"
"expect," and "intend" and other similar expressions constitute  forward-looking
statements.  These  forward-looking  statements  are  subject  to  business  and
economic  risks and  uncertainties,  and our actual  results of  operations  may
differ  materially  from  those  contained  in the  forward-looking  statements.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences  include, but are not
limited to, those  discussed in "Certain  Business Risks and  Uncertainties"  in
Item 1 of this report,  as well as other risks and  uncertainties  referenced in
this report.

Overview
- --------

We are the world leader in developing and manufacturing  semiconductor materials
and electronic  devices made from SiC. We recognize  product revenue at the time
of  shipment  or in  accordance  with the  terms of the  relevant  contract.  We
recognize the largest portion of our revenue from the sale of blue and green LED
products. We offer LEDs at two brightness levels- high brightness blue and green
products and standard blue  products.  Our LED devices are utilized by end users
for automotive  backlighting,  LCD backlighting  (including  wireless handsets),
indicator  lamps,  miniature  white  lighting,  indoor sign and arena  displays,
outdoor  full  color  stadium  displays,  traffic  signals  and  other  lighting
applications. LED products represented 63% of our revenue in fiscal 2000 and 49%
in fiscal 1999.

We also derive  revenue from the sale of materials  products  made from SiC that
are  used  primarily  for  research  and  development   for  new   semiconductor
applications.  We also sell SiC  crystals  to C&C,  which  incorporates  them in
gemstone  applications.  Sales  of  SiC  materials  products  and  SiC  crystals
represented  26% of our  revenue  in fiscal  2000 and  approximately  37% during
fiscal 1999.

The  balance  of our  revenue,  11% for fiscal  2000 and 14% for fiscal  1999 is
derived  from  government  contract  funding.   Under  various  programs,   U.S.
Government  entities  further the  development  of our technology by funding our
research and development  efforts. All resulting technology remains our property
after the completion of the contract, subject to certain license rights retained
by the  government.  Contract  revenue  includes  funding of direct research and
development costs and a portion of our general and  administrative  expenses and
other  operating  expenses for contracts under which we expect funding to exceed
direct  costs  over the  life of the  contract.  For  contracts  under  which we
anticipate  that direct costs will exceed  amounts to be funded over the life of
the contract (i.e., certain cost-share arrangements),  we report direct costs as
research and  development  expenses with related  reimbursements  recorded as an
offset to those expenses.

We have new product  initiatives  for RF and microwave  transistors and recently
began shipping limited quantities of our first RF devices. We believe that these
products can be used in a variety of  applications,  including power  amplifiers
for wireless  infrastructure,  home-based  subscriber  units,  digital broadcast
applications  and solid state radar.  We also have new product  initiatives  for
high power devices for power conversion and switching uses and blue laser diodes
for  high-density  digital  versatile  disk,  or DVD,  players and other optical
storage  applications.  We are  also  developing  LEDs  with a  higher  luminous
efficiency to expand our existing family of devices.

The  following  table shows our  statement  of  operations  data  expressed as a
percentage of total revenue for the periods indicated:

                                      -23-

<PAGE>
                                                       Years Ended
                                           -----------------------------------
                                           June 25,      June 27,     June 28,
                                             2000          1999         1998
                                           --------      --------     --------
Revenue:
     Product revenue, net................    89.1%         85.7%        79.4%
     Contract revenue, net...............    10.9          14.3         20.6
                                           --------      --------     --------
         Total revenue...................   100.0         100.0        100.0

Cost of Revenue:
     Product revenue, net................    40.0          43.2         49.4
     Contract revenue, net.............       8.2          11.5         17.1
                                           --------      --------     --------
         Total cost of revenue...........    48.2          54.7         66.5
                                           --------      --------     --------
Gross margin.............................    51.8          45.3         33.5

Operating expenses:
     Research and development..........       6.5           7.1          4.0
     Sales, general and administrative       10.2          10.4         10.0
     Other expense.......................     1.2           1.9          1.1
                                           --------      --------     --------
     Income from operations..............    33.9          25.9         18.4

Other non-operating income.............       0.6           0.2          0.0
Interest income, net....................      8.6           1.7          1.7
                                           --------      --------     --------
     Income before income taxes......        43.1          27.8         20.1
Income tax expense.......................    15.0          7.8          5.9
                                           --------      --------     --------
     Net income..........................    28.1%         20.0%        14.2%
                                           ========      ========     ========


Fiscal Years Ended June 25, 2000 and June 27, 1999
- --------------------------------------------------

Revenue

Revenue grew 74% to $108.6  million in fiscal 2000 from $62.4  million in fiscal
1999. This increase was attributable to higher product  revenue,  which rose 81%
to $96.7 million in fiscal 2000 from $53.4 million in fiscal 1999. This increase
in product  revenue  was a result of the 124% rise in sales of our LED  products
and a 24%  increase in SiC  material  revenue in fiscal 2000  compared to fiscal
1999, respectively.

Our high brightness LED products  experienced the heaviest demand. While our LED
chip volume has grown 78% in fiscal 2000 over units shipped in fiscal 1999,  our
average sales prices for LEDs have also  increased 26% over the prior year.  The
greater  average sales price  reflects a significant  shift in mix to the higher
priced high  brightness LED products.  During fiscal 2000,  the high  brightness
products  sold for an average sales price that was 125% higher than the standard
brightness  product.   For  fiscal  2000,  more  than  70%  of  LED  sales  were
attributable to high brightness  products.  During fiscal 1999, less than 15% of
LED sales were from the high brightness devices. The average sales price for the
high  brightness  product  line  declined  12% in fiscal 2000 as compared to the
prior year.  The increase in high  brightness  unit volume was due to the strong
demand from  customers  and the  availability  of  additional  capacity from our
factory  as  a  result  of  our  facility  and  equipment  expansion  and  yield
improvements.  Unit shipments of the high brightness  product also increased due
to the  introduction  of  small-sized  chips

                                      -24-

<PAGE>
during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000. The small-sized  high brightness chips
represented 8% of total LED volume for that quarter.

While we continue to improve  our  manufacturing  process and yields on our high
brightness and standard brightness  products,  we must continue to significantly
increase our production output to meet the growing demands of our customers.  We
believe that our LED products  continue to be attractive to the  marketplace due
to our low prices and industry  standard vertical  structure.  We expect that in
order to increase market demand for all of our LED products, we must continue to
lower average sales prices, which is common in our industry. During fiscal 2001,
we believe that the average  sales price for all LED products will decline based
on current and projected orders. However, we are targeting strong growth for our
LED  revenue  in  fiscal  2001 to more  than  offset  these  lower  prices  with
significantly  higher  volume,  stemming  from  strong  customer  demand and our
continued capacity expansion and yield improvements.

Revenue  attributable  to sales of SiC  materials  was 24% higher in fiscal 2000
than the same period in 1999 due to a  significant  increase in sales to C&C for
gemstone  applications  and demand for wafer products.  In the second quarter of
fiscal  2000,  C&C  announced  lower  sales and  higher  inventory  levels  than
anticipated and we agreed to allow C&C to reschedule  approximately  one-half of
its purchase commitments from the first half of calendar 2000 to the second half
of the year. For fiscal 2001, we believe  gemstone sales will comprise less than
5% of total  revenue  and strong  demand  from our LED  business  will more than
offset  further  reductions  in gemstone  sales.  Demand for our wafer  business
remains  solid,  and we are targeting  increased  revenue from these products in
fiscal 2001 due to higher demand for optoelectronic production and microwave and
power device research.

Contract revenue  received from U.S.  Government  agencies  increased 32% during
fiscal 2000  compared to fiscal 1999,  due to  increased  revenue on a microwave
contract  awarded in late fiscal 1999, and additional  contract  awards for Cree
Lighting  during  fiscal 2000.  We are  targeting  contract  revenue to increase
slightly in fiscal 2001 based on contracts awarded in late fiscal 2000.

Gross Profit

Gross profit increased 99% to $56.2 million in fiscal 2000 from $28.2 million in
fiscal  1999.  This  increase is due  primarily  to the rise in LED sales volume
discussed  above and improved  profitability.  During  fiscal 2000,  the average
sales price of high brightness and standard brightness LED products declined 12%
and 21%, respectively,  over the prior year. During the same comparative period,
the cost of these devices  declined 45% and 28%,  respectively.  The lower costs
resulted from improved yields and greater throughput.

Profits on wafer and gemstone  products have also improved during fiscal 2000 as
compared to fiscal 1999,  due to higher  quality  materials  being produced with
greater  yields.  As a result,  average wafer costs for SiC material  sales also
declined 34% during fiscal 2000 over the comparative period.

For fiscal 2001,  we are targeting our average sales prices for LEDs to decline.
Historically,  we have been successful in matching lower sales prices with lower
costs.  During  fiscal  2001,  we plan to continue  our focus on reducing  costs
through higher production yields and from significantly greater volumes as fixed
costs are spread over a greater number of units.

                                      -25-

<PAGE>
Research and Development

Research and development  expenses  increased 59% in fiscal 2000 to $7.1 million
from $4.4  million in fiscal 1999.  Much of this  increase was caused by greater
investments for research and development in RF and microwave and optoelectronics
programs.  In May of 1999, we signed a $2.6 million  agreement with Microvision,
Inc. or MVIS, for the development of  edge-emitting  LEDs and blue laser diodes.
In April 2000,  we amended our contract with MVIS to extend the agreement for an
additional  two-year  period.  Under the  amended  agreement,  MVIS will fund an
additional $10.0 million.  As development  costs are incurred under the original
and amended contract, funding from MVIS is offset against these expenses. During
fiscal 2000,  approximately $3.1 million of funding from MVIS was offset against
research and development expenses. During fiscal 1999, only $500,000 was applied
to research and development  expenses.  The remaining $9.0 million of funding is
expected to be applied to research and  development  expenses in fiscal 2001 and
fiscal 2002,  with $4.5 million of funding  expected to be applied each year. We
believe that  including  the offset of MVIS funds in fiscal  2001,  research and
development  expenses  will  continue  to grow in future  periods;  however,  we
believe that as a percentage  of revenue,  research and  development  costs will
remain constant.

Sales, General and Administrative

Sales, general and administrative expenses increased 71% in fiscal 2000 to $11.1
million from $6.5 million in fiscal 1999 due primarily to the general  growth in
our  business.  In future  periods,  we believe  that total  sales,  general and
administrative  costs will continue to increase in connection with the growth of
our  business;  however,  we believe that as a  percentage  of revenue they will
remain constant.

Other Expense

Other expense increased 11% to $1.3 million during fiscal 2000 from $1.2 million
in fiscal 1999 due to higher write-downs for fixed assets during the year.

Other Non-Operating Income

Other  non-operating  income  increased  372% to  $700,000  in fiscal  2000 from
$100,000  in  fiscal  1999 due to  greater  income  recognized  from the sale of
investment securities. During fiscal 2000, a $4.1 million gain was recognized on
the sale of  securities.  This gain  combined  with  one-time  proceeds  from an
insurance recovery of $400,000,  more than offset a $3.8 million one-time charge
for  expenses  incurred  with the  acquisition  of Nitres,  Inc. In fiscal 1999,
$100,000 was recognized on the sale of securities.

Interest Income, net

Interest income, net has increased 788% to $9.4 million in fiscal 2000 from $1.1
million in fiscal 1999 due to higher  average cash balances  being  available in
fiscal 2000 as a result of two public stock offerings  completed in January 2000
and February  1999.  Higher  interest  rates in fiscal 2000 also  contributed to
increased  interest income.  In addition,  in November 1997, we obtained a $10.0
million term loan from  NationsBank to fund the acquisition and  construction of
our  manufacturing  facility  in Durham,  North  Carolina.  The  majority of the
interest incurred in the first half of fiscal 1999 was expensed and was shown as
an offset to "Interest  income,  net". This loan was repaid in the third quarter
of fiscal 1999;  therefore,  there was no interest expense  associated with this
loan in fiscal 2000.

                                      -26-

<PAGE>
Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense for fiscal 2000 was $16.3 million compared to $4.9 million in
fiscal 1999. This increase resulted from increased  profitability  during fiscal
2000 over  fiscal  1999.  Our  effective  tax rate  during  fiscal  2000 was 35%
compared to 28% in fiscal 1999 due to a  reduction  in the reserve for  deferred
tax assets.

Fiscal Years Ended June 27, 1999 and June 28, 1998
- --------------------------------------------------

Revenue

Revenue  grew 42% to $62.4  million in fiscal 1999 from $44.0  million in fiscal
1998. This increase was attributable to higher product  revenue,  which rose 53%
to $53.4 million in fiscal 1999 from $34.9 million in fiscal 1998. This increase
in product revenue was a result of the 62% rise in sales of our LED products and
58%  increase  in  materials  revenue in fiscal 1999  compared  to fiscal  1998,
respectively.

Growth in LED volume  resulted from the  introduction of the new high brightness
devices  and  improvements  in the product  design of and strong  demand for the
standard  brightness  product.  During  fiscal 1999,  LED volume grew 160% while
average sales prices declined 38%.

Revenue attributable to sales of SiC material was 58% higher in fiscal 1999 than
in the same period of fiscal 1998 due to a significant  increase in sales to C&C
for gemstone  applications  and strong demand for wafer products.  During fiscal
1998,  C&C was in the initial  stages of operation;  therefore,  unit sales were
limited. Revenue from sales of SiC wafers were higher in fiscal 1999 as compared
to  fiscal  1998,  due  to  quality  improvements  in  wafers,  along  with  the
availability of the larger two-inch wafer during fiscal 1999.

During fiscal 1999, sales from our displays business declined 96% from the prior
year period as we had chosen to discontinue this product line.  Contract revenue
received  from U.S.  Government  agencies  also  declined 1% during  fiscal 1999
compared to fiscal 1998,  as a significant  contract that funded  optoelectronic
research was exhausted in early fiscal 1999.

Gross Profit

Gross  margin  climbed to 45% of revenue  during  fiscal 1999 as compared to 34%
during fiscal 1998.  This increase is  predominantly  attributable to design and
manufacturing improvements that occurred in fiscal 1999 resulting in significant
reductions  in cost.  With the  introduction  of the new  conductive  buffer LED
technology in the fourth  quarter of fiscal 1998, we were able to  significantly
lower costs of production due to fewer manufacturing steps required with the new
chip structure and improved  yield.  During the first six months of fiscal 1998,
we  introduced  a smaller  LED chip  size and,  in  December  1997,  we began to
fabricate  devices on a larger  two-inch  wafer.  During much of fiscal 1998, we
were still in the process of establishing  these new  manufacturing  designs and
had not achieved production  efficiency.  In addition, the larger two-inch wafer
had not been in full production for much of fiscal 1998; therefore,  average die
yields were  significantly  lower.  During fiscal 1999,  margins realized on the
high  brightness  products  were lower than those derived from our standard blue
LED  product,  as the yield  from the  manufacturing  process  was less than our
standard product.

Average  wafer costs for SiC material  products  sales also  declined 32% during
fiscal 1999 over the  comparative  period due to more  efficient  processes  and
improved yield.

                                      -27-

<PAGE>
Research and Development

Research and development  expenses increased 150% in fiscal 1999 to $4.4 million
from  $1.8  million  in  fiscal  1998.  Much  of this  increase  was  caused  by
significantly  higher  costs  for  the  initial  development  of  the  new  high
brightness  LED  products.  In May of 1999,  the company  signed a $2.6  million
agreement  with MVIS for the  development of  edge-emitting  LEDs and blue laser
diodes.  As development  costs were incurred  under this contract,  funding from
MVIS was offset  against  these  expenses.  During  fiscal  1999,  approximately
$500,000  of  funding  from MVIS was offset  against  research  and  development
expenses.  The  remaining  $2.1  million of funding was applied to research  and
development expenses in fiscal 2000.

Sales, General and Administrative

Sales, general and administrative  expenses increased 48% in fiscal 1999 to $6.5
million from $4.4 million in fiscal 1998 due primarily to the general  growth in
our business.  In addition,  in fiscal 1998 two  insurance  events were recorded
that reduced expenses by $400,000.  As a result of the dismissal of a securities
class action  lawsuit in November  1997, we were  reimbursed  $200,000 for costs
incurred in connection with the lawsuit. Most of these expenses were recorded in
fiscal  1997.  In  addition,  we  received a $200,000  reimbursement  of medical
expenses due to a negotiated cost cap in a partially  self-funded insured health
plan.

Other Expense

Other expense increased 135% to $1.2 million during fiscal 1999 from $500,000 in
fiscal 1998. During fiscal 1999, we realized impairments to leasehold costs as a
result of  management's  decision to move equipment from our leased  facility to
our new  manufacturing  site. We also wrote-off  other assets that had no future
value to us.

Other Non-Operating Income

Other  non-operating  income  increased 100% to $100,000 in fiscal 1999 due to a
gain  recorded for the sale of securities in that year. In fiscal 1998 there was
no "Other non-operating income".

Interest Income, net

Interest  income,  net has  increased  40% to $1.1  million in fiscal  1999 from
$800,000 in fiscal 1998 due to higher average cash balances  being  available in
fiscal 1999 as a result of a public stock offering completed in February 1999. A
portion of the  proceeds  received  from the offering was used to repay all debt
that was outstanding;  therefore during much of the third quarter and all of the
fourth  quarter of fiscal  1999,  there was no  interest  expense  incurred.  In
November 1997, we obtained a term loan from  NationsBank to fund the acquisition
and construction of our manufacturing  facility in Durham, North Carolina.  Most
of that interest was capitalized during fiscal 1998.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense for fiscal 1999 was $4.9 million  compared to $2.6 million in
fiscal 1998. This increase resulted from increased  profitability  during fiscal
1999 over  fiscal  1998.  Our  effective  tax rate  during  fiscal  1999 was 28%
compared to 29% in fiscal 1998.

                                      -28-
<PAGE>
Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

We have funded our operations to date through sales of equity,  bank  borrowings
and revenue from product and contract sales. As of June 25, 2000, we had working
capital of $266.0 million,  including  $246.3 million in cash, cash  equivalents
and short-term  investments.  Operating  activities  generated  $63.0 million in
fiscal 2000  compared  with $20.4 million  generated  during  fiscal 1999.  This
increase was primarily attributable to net income and other non-cash expenses of
$42.7  million,  a $12.8  million  increase  in  accounts  payable  and  accrued
expenses,  and  a  $27.3  million  tax  benefit  associated  with  stock  option
exercises.  These  amounts  were partly  offset by a $11.6  million  increase in
deferred income taxes, and a $5.3 million rise in inventory.

Most of the $274.6  million of cash used in investing  activities in fiscal 2000
was related to purchases of held to maturity investments. We also invested $12.5
million to acquire available for sale marketable  securities.  We invested $78.0
million in capital  expenditures  during  fiscal 2000  compared to $41.4 million
during the same period of the prior fiscal year. The majority of the increase in
spending was due to new equipment additions to increase  manufacturing  capacity
in our crystal growth,  epitaxy and package and test areas.  Also we completed a
42,000  square foot  facility  expansion at our  production  site near  Research
Triangle  Park,  North  Carolina  and began the  construction  of an  additional
250,000  square  foot  facility  expansion  at the same site.  In  addition,  we
acquired a 120,000  square  foot shell  building  on 17.5 acres of land near our
present  facility.  We  plan  to  use  this  facility  for  sales,  general  and
administrative,  as well as for general employee service functions.  The cost to
acquire this facility (not  including the upfit costs for  completing  the shell
building) was $8.2 million.

The $272.9 million of cash provided by financing  activities  during fiscal 2000
related  primarily  to the receipt of $266.1  million in net  proceeds  from the
January  2000  stock  offering  and the  exercise  of stock  options  and  stock
warrants.  The stock warrants  exercised were distributed in connection with our
September  1995 private  placement and have an exercise  price of $13.62.  As of
June 25, 2000 warrants  remained  outstanding to purchase 231,000 shares;  these
warrants will expire in September 2000.

We may also  issue  additional  shares of common  stock for the  acquisition  of
complementary  businesses  or other  significant  assets.  From  time to time we
evaluate potential  acquisitions of and investments in complementary  businesses
and anticipate continuing to make such evaluations.

We are currently engaged in construction activities relating to a 250,000 square
foot  expansion of our main facility to provide  added  capacity for our LED and
materials and future product lines.  We are targeting  phases of this project to
be finished beginning in December 2000, with the balance targeted for completion
within 18 months.  We anticipate  total costs for these facilities to be between
$45.0 million and $50.0 million.  Estimates for equipment costs relating to this
expansion and other additions total approximately $65.0 million. We plan to fund
this expansion with cash from operations and cash on hand.




                                      -29-
<PAGE>
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Quantitative Disclosures:
- -------------------------

As of June 25, 2000,  the Company  maintains an investment in equity  securities
that is treated for  accounting  purposes under SFAS 115 as "available for sale"
securities.  This  investment  is carried at fair market value based upon quoted
market price of that investment as of June 25, 2000,  with net unrealized  gains
or losses  excluded  from  earnings  and  reported  as a separate  component  of
stockholder's  equity. This investment,  which consists of common stock of MVIS,
is subject to market risk of equity price  changes.  The common stock of MVIS is
publicly  traded on the Nasdaq National  Market.  The Company  acquired  268,600
shares from MVIS in a private  placement in May 1999. In April 2000, the company
purchased  250,000  additional  shares of common  stock of MVIS.  In June  2000,
162,600 shares from the initial  investment  were sold,  leaving  356,000 shares
remaining. Management views this stock holding as an investment;  therefore, the
shares are accounted for as "available for sale"  securities under SFAS 115. The
fair market value of this investment as of June 25, 2000, using the closing sale
price as of June 23, 2000, was $15.8 million.

During the third  quarter  of fiscal  2000,  the  Company  invested  some of the
proceeds from its January 2000 public offering into  high-grade  corporate debt,
commercial paper,  government securities and other investments at fixed interest
rates that vary by  security.  No other  material  changes  in market  risk were
identified during the most recent quarter.

During fiscal 1999, the Company repaid the term loan that was  outstanding as of
June 28, 1998. The Company currently has no debt outstanding.

Qualitative Disclosures:
- ------------------------

The  investment  in MVIS  common  stock is subject to the market  risk of equity
price  changes.  While the Company  can not predict or manage the future  market
price for such stock,  management  continues to evaluate its investment position
on an ongoing basis.


















                                      -30-
<PAGE>
Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                                                            Page

Report of Independent Auditors...............................................32

Report of Independent Accountants............................................33

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 25, 2000 and June 27, 1999............34

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended June 25, 2000,
June 27, 1999 and June 28, 1998..............................................35

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow for the years ended June 25, 2000,
June 27, 1999 and June 28, 1998..............................................36

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended
June 25, 2000, June 27, 1999 and June 28, 1998...............................37

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements...................................38













                                      -31-
<PAGE>
                         Report of Independent Auditors


The Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Cree, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Cree, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of June 25, 2000 and June 27, 1999, and the related consolidated
statements of income,  shareholders'  equity,  and cash flows for the years then
ended.  These  financial  statements  are the  responsibility  of the  Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements based on our audits. The consolidated  financial  statements of Cree,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of and for the year ended June 28, 1998 were audited by
other auditors whose report dated July 22, 1998,  except for the  restatement of
the fiscal 1998  financial  statements  as a result of the business  combination
described in the first three  paragraphs  of Note 2 for which the date is May 1,
2000, expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial  statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial  statement
presentation.  We believe  that our audits  provide a  reasonable  basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects,  the consolidated  financial position of Cree,
Inc.  and  subsidiaries  as of  June  25,  2000  and  June  27,  1999,  and  the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then
ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States.

                                       /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Raleigh, North Carolina
July 21, 2000




                                      -32-
<PAGE>
                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



Board of Directors and Shareholders
Cree, Inc.

In our  opinion,  based on our  audit  and the  report  of other  auditors,  the
consolidated statements of income, of shareholders' equity, and of cash flow for
the year ended June 28, 1998  present  fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the
results of operations and cash flows of Cree, Inc. and its  subsidiaries for the
year ended June 28, 1998, in conformity  with  accounting  principles  generally
accepted in the United States. These financial statements are the responsibility
of the  Company's  management;  our  responsibility  is to express an opinion on
these  financial  statements  based on our  audit.  The  consolidated  financial
statements give retroactive effect to the merger of Nitres,  Inc. on May 1, 2000
in a transaction  accounted for as a pooling of interest, as described in Note 2
to the  consolidated  financial  statements.  We did  not  audit  the  financial
statements  of  Nitres,   Inc.  which  statements   reflect  total  revenues  of
$1,430,561,  for the year ended June 28, 1998.  Those statements were audited by
other  auditors  whose report  thereon has been furnished to us, and our opinion
expressed  herein,  insofar as it relates to the  amounts  included  for Nitres,
Inc.,  is based solely on the report of the other  auditors.  We  conducted  our
audit of these  statements  in  accordance  with  auditing  standards  generally
accepted in the United States,  which require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and  disclosures in the financial  statements,  assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our
audit  and the  report of other  auditors  provide  a  reasonable  basis for the
opinion  expressed  above.  We  have  not  audited  the  consolidated  financial
statements of Cree, Inc. for any period subsequent to June 28, 1998.



PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Raleigh, North Carolina

July 22, 1998, except for the restatement
of the fiscal 1998 financial statements as
a result of the business combination
described in the first three paragraphs
of Note 2 for which the date is May 1, 2000



                                      -33-
<PAGE>
                                   CREE, INC.
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                    (In thousands, except per share amounts)

                                                        June 25,        June 27,
                                                          2000            1999
ASSETS                                                 ---------       ---------
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents                            $103,843        $ 42,545
  Short-term investments held to maturity               142,461             --
  Marketable securities available for sale               15,842           6,145
  Accounts receivable, net                               12,406          16,099
  Interest receivable                                     3,893             109
  Inventories                                             9,320           3,986
  Deferred income taxes                                     --              296
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets               1,254             991
                                                       ---------       ---------
    Total current assets                                289,019          70,171

  Property and equipment, net                           137,118          71,130
  Long-term investments held to maturity                 41,965             --
  Deferred income taxes                                  10,624           2,879
  Patent and license rights, net                          2,324           1,742
  Other assets                                            5,152              11
                                                       ---------       ---------
    Total assets                                       $486,202        $145,933
                                                       =========       =========

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable, trade                              $ 14,204         $ 7,757
  Current maturities of long term debt                      --              478
  Accrued salaries and wages                              3,133             819
  Other accrued expenses                                  5,725           1,228
                                                       ---------       ---------
    Total current liabilities                            23,062          10,282

Long term liabilities:
  Deferred income taxes                                     --            4,650
                                                       ---------       ---------
    Total long term liabilities                             --            4,650

Shareholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, par value $0.01;                         --              --
     3,000 shares authorized at June 25,
     2000 and June 27, 1999; none issued
     and outstanding
  Common stock, par value $0.0025; 60,000                    88              77
     shares authorized at June 25, 2000 and
     June 27, 1999; 35,348 and 31,258 shares
     issued and outstanding at June 25, 2000
     and June 27, 1999, respectively
  Additional paid-in-capital                            415,716         113,268
  Deferred compensation expense                         (1,755)           (967)
  Retained earnings                                      48,156          17,636
  Accumulated other comprehensive income,                   935             987
     net of tax                                        --------         --------
     Total shareholders' equity                         463,140         131,001
                                                       --------         --------
     Total liabilities and shareholders' equity        $486,202        $145,933
                                                       ========        =========

                   The accompanying notes are an integral part
                   of the consolidated financial statements.

                                      -34-

<PAGE>
                                   CREE, INC.
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    (In thousands, except per share amounts)


                                                      Year Ended
                                       -----------------------------------------
                                       June 25,         June 27,        June 28,
                                         2000             1999            1998
                                       --------         --------        --------
Revenue:
  Product revenue, net                 $ 96,742         $ 53,424        $ 34,891
  Contract revenue, net                  11,820            8,977           9,071
                                       --------         --------        --------
    Total revenue                       108,562           62,401          43,962

Cost of revenue:
  Product revenue, net                   43,399           26,968          21,727
  Contract revenue, net                   8,963            7,195           7,496
                                       --------         --------        --------
    Total cost of revenue                52,362           34,163          29,223

                                       --------         --------        --------
Gross profit                             56,200           28,238          14,739

Operating expenses:
  Research and development                7,054            4,443           1,774
  Sales, general and administrative      11,091            6,472           4,383
  Other expense                           1,305            1,180             502
                                       --------         --------        --------
    Income from operations               36,750           16,143           8,080

Other non-operating income                  656              139             --
Interest income, net                      9,400            1,058             754
                                       --------         --------        --------
    Income before income taxes           46,806           17,340           8,834

Income tax expense                       16,286            4,892           2,591
                                       --------         --------        --------
    Net income                          $30,520          $12,448          $6,243
                                       ========         ========        ========

Earnings per share:
    Basic                                 $0.93            $0.43           $0.23
                                       ========         ========        ========
    Diluted                               $0.87            $0.41          $0.22
                                       ========         ========        ========

Shares used in per share calculation:
    Basic                                32,965           29,015          27,726
                                       ========         ========        ========
    Diluted                              35,217           30,432          28,987
                                       ========         ========        ========


               The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                      -35-
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          CREE, INC.
                                             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW
                                                        (In thousands)
                                                                                          Year Ended
                                                               -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                    June 25,                June 27,              June 28,
                                                                      2000                    1999                  1998
                                                               --------------------    -------------------    ------------------
<S>                                                            <C>                     <C>                    <C>
Operating activities:
       Net income                                                    $ 30,520                $ 12,448                $6,243
       Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
         provided by operating activities:
       Depreciation and amortization                                   10,803                   5,593                 4,368
       Loss on retirement of property and equipment                     1,256                   1,602                   719
       Loss on write off of patents                                        --                      51                    17
       Amortization of patent rights                                      145                     117                   102
       Amortization and write off of goodwill                            --                     --                       86
       Purchase of marketable trading securities                      (1,786)                   (233)               (1,500)
       Proceeds from sale of marketable trading securities              2,280                   1,421                   421
       Loss (gain) on marketable trading securities                     (494)                   (141)                    32
       Loss (gain) on available for sale securities                   (3,567)                   --                    --
       Deferred income taxes                                         (11,617)                     628                   382
       Income tax benefits from stock option exercises                 27,336                   2,672                 1,791
       Amortization of deferred compensation                              980                     142                    10
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

           Accounts and interest receivable                              (91)                 (5,753)               (2,656)
           Inventories                                                (5,334)                 (1,443)                 1,406
           Prepaid expenses and other current assets                    (263)                     414                 (880)
           Accounts payable, trade                                      6,447                   2,049                 1,141
           Accrued expenses                                             6,356                     799                   350
                                                               --------------------    -------------------    ------------------
Net cash provided by operating activities                              62,971                  20,366                12,032
                                                               --------------------    -------------------    ------------------

Investing activities:
       Purchase of available for sale securities                     (12,500)                 (4,500)                  --
       Proceeds from sale of available for sale securities              6,291                    --                    --
       Purchase of securities held to maturity                      (195,883)                    --                    --
       Proceeds from maturities of securities held to                  11,457                    --                    --
maturity

       Purchase of property and equipment                            (78,047)                (41,439)              (15,894)
       Proceeds from sale of property and equipment                      --                       186                   463
       Purchase of patent rights                                        (727)                   (379)                 (383)
       Increase in other long term assets                             (5,141)                    --                    --
                                                               --------------------    -------------------    ------------------
           Net cash used in investing activities                    (274,550)                (46,132)              (15,814)
                                                               --------------------    -------------------    ------------------
Financing activities:
       Net proceeds from issuance of long term debt                       --                    1,350                 8,891
       Net repayment of long term debt                                   (47)                (10,241)                  --
       Net proceeds from issuance of common stock                     272,924                  61,470                 3,736
       Receipt of Section 16(b) common stock profits                      --                      594                  --
       Repurchase of common stock                                         --                  (3,213)               (1,262)
                                                               --------------------    -------------------    ------------------
           Net cash provided by financing activities                  272,877                  49,960                11,365
                                                               --------------------    -------------------    ------------------

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents                              61,298                  24,194                 7,583
Cash and cash equivalents:
       Beginning of year                                               42,545                  18,351                10,768
                                                               --------------------    -------------------    ------------------
       End of year                                                   $103,843                 $42,545              $ 18,351
                                                               ====================    ===================    ==================
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:

       Cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized              $   13                  $  282                $   93
                                                               ====================    ===================    ==================
       Cash paid for income taxes                                      $  272                 $ 2,175                $  336
                                                               ====================    ===================    ==================

Non-cash investing and financing activities:

       Deferred compensation                                          $ 1,768                 $ 1,016               $   98
                                                               ====================    ===================    ==================
       Conversion of note payable to common stock                      $  431                $  --                 $  --
                                                               ====================    ===================    ==================
       Equipment donated for common stock                             $  --                  $  --                   $  150
                                                               ====================    ===================    ==================
</TABLE>

               The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                      -36-
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          CREE, INC.
                                         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                  YEARS ENDED JUNE 25, 2000, JUNE 27, 1999 AND JUNE 28, 1998
                                                        (In thousands)

                                                                                                     Compre-
                                       Common         Additional        Deferred                     hensive     Total
                                        Stock          Paid-in          Compen-       Retained        Income        Shareholders'
                                      Par Value        Capital          sation        Earnings                         Equity
                                      -----------    -------------     ----------    ------------    ----------     --------------
<S>                                   <C>            <C>               <C>           <C>             <C>            <C>
Balance at June 30, 1997                 $ 64          $46,234              $(5)       $(1,055)        $ --          $45,238
Common stock options exercised for
cash, 434 shares                            1            1,693                                                         1,694
Common stock warrants exercised for
cash, 662 shares                            2            1,240                                                         1,242
Employees granted stock, 52 shares                          98              (98)                                          --
Issuance of common stock for cash           1              949                                                           950
and assets, 558 shares
Purchase of common stock for the
treasury, 164 shares                                                                    (1,262)                      (1,262)
Retirement of 164 treasury shares                        (1,262)                          1,262                           --
Income tax benefits from stock
option exercises                                         1,791                                                         1,791
Amortization of deferred                                                      10                                          10
compensation
Net income                                                                                6,243                        6,243
                                      -----------    -------------     ----------    ------------    ----------     --------------
Balance at June 28, 1998                   68           50,743              (93)          5,188          --           55,906

Common stock options exercised for
cash, 418 shares                            1            1,511                                                         1,512
Common stock warrants exercised for
cash, 342 shares                                         4,656                                                         4,656
Employees & directors granted
stock, 441 shares                           1            1,015           (1,016)                                          --
Issuance of common stock for cash,
3,010 shares                                7           55,290                                                        55,297
Purchase of common stock for the
treasury, 470 shares                                                                    (3,213)                      (3,213)
Retirement of 470 treasury shares                      (3,213)                            3,213                           --
Receipt of Section 16(b) common
stock profits from a director                              594                                                           594
Income tax benefits from stock
option exercises                                         2,672                                                         2,672
Amortization of deferred                                                     142                                         142
compensation

Net income                                                                               12,448                       12,448
Unrealized gain (loss) on
securities available for sale, net                                                                       987             987
of tax of $658
                                                                                                                    --------------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                  13,435
                                      -----------    -------------     ----------    ------------    ----------     --------------
Balance at June 27, 1999                   77          113,268             (967)         17,636         987          131,001

Common stock options exercised for
cash, 927 shares                            3            6,383                                                         6,386
Common stock warrants exercised for
cash, 27 shares                                            367                                                           367
Employees granted stock options,
137 shares                                                 785             (785)                                          --
Employees granted stock, 171 shares                        983             (983)                                          --
Common stock warrants granted, 16                           31                                                            31
shares
Loan converted to common stock, 169
shares                                                     431                                                           431
Issuance of common stock for cash,
3,289 shares                                8          266,132                                                       266,140
Income tax benefits from stock
option exercises                                        27,336                                                        27,336
Amortization of deferred                                                     980                                         980
compensation

Net income                                                                               30,520                       30,520
Unrealized gain (loss) on
securities available for sale, net                                                                       (52)           (52)
of tax of $(27)
                                                                                                                    --------------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                  30,468
                                      -----------    -------------     ----------    ------------    -----------    --------------
Balance at June 25, 2000                 $ 88         $415,716         $ (1,755)       $ 48,156         $ 935       $463,140
                                      ===========    =============     ==========    ============    ===========    ==============
</TABLE>

               The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
                       consolidated financial statements.

                                      -37-
<PAGE>
                                   CREE, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  NATURE OF BUSINESS

Cree,  Inc., the "Company," or "Cree," a North Carolina  corporation,  develops,
manufactures,  and markets silicon carbide-based semiconductor devices. Revenues
are  primarily  derived  from the sale of blue and green light  emitting  diodes
("LED"),  and silicon carbide ("SiC") based  materials.  The Company markets its
blue and green LED chip products  principally to customers who incorporate  them
into packaged lamps for resale to original equipment manufacturers.  The Company
also sells SiC  material  products  to  corporate,  government,  and  university
research  laboratories.  In  addition,  the  Company  is engaged in a variety of
research  programs related to the advancement of SiC process  technology and the
development of electronic  devices that take advantage of SiC's unique  physical
and  electronic  properties.  The Company  recovers  the costs of a  significant
portion of its research and development  efforts from revenues on contracts with
agencies  of the  Federal  government.  This  funding is  recorded  as  contract
revenue.

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND OTHER MATTERS

Business Combination

On May 1, 2000 the  Company  acquired  Nitres,  Inc.  in a business  combination
accounted for as a pooling of  interests.  Nitres,  Inc.,  became a wholly owned
subsidiary  (Cree  Lighting  Company)  of the Company  through  the  exchange of
1,847,746 shares of the Company's common stock for all of the outstanding  stock
of Nitres,  Inc. In addition,  the Company assumed outstanding stock options and
warrants, which after adjustment for the exchange represented a total of 152,223
options and warrants to purchase shares of Cree's common stock. The accompanying
consolidated  financial  statements  for fiscal 2000 are based on the assumption
that  the  companies   were  combined  for  the  full  year.  All  prior  period
consolidated  financial  statements have been restated to include the results of
operations, financial position and cash flows of Nitres, Inc., as though Nitres,
Inc. had been a part of the Company for all periods presented.

Reconciliation of Previously Reported Operations - Selected Financial Data

The  following  table  reflects  the  summarized  results of  operations  of the
separate  companies  for the nine  months  ended  March 26,  2000,  the  nearest
practical reporting period prior to the business  combination on May 1, 2000. In
addition, a reconciliation of the amounts of net sales and net income previously
reported with restated amounts is included.








                                      -38-
<PAGE>
                                           (Unaudited)
                                           Nine Months
                                              ended       (Year Ended (in 000s)
                                            March 26,     ---------------------
                                              2000        June 27,     June 28,
                                            (in 000s)       1999         1998
                                           -----------    --------     --------
Net sales and other revenue:
As previously reported by Cree, Inc.        $ 72,342      $ 60,050     $ 42,531
Nitres, Inc.                                   2,887         2,391        1,431
Elimination of intercompany transactions        (27)          (40)          -
                                           -----------    --------     --------
As restated                                 $ 75,202      $ 62,401     $ 43,962
                                           ===========    ========     ========
Net income (loss):
As previously reported by Cree, Inc.        $ 19,575      $ 12,702     $  6,275
Nitres, Inc.                                   (392)         (234)         (32)
Elimination of intercompany transactions        (20)          (20)         -
                                           -----------    --------     --------
As restated                                 $ 19,163      $ 12,448     $  6,243
                                           ===========    ========     =========


Elimination of Prior Intercompany Transactions

Prior to May 1, 2000, the Company and Nitres,  in the normal course of business,
entered into  certain  transactions  for the  purchase and sale of  merchandise.
These  intercompany  transactions  have  been  eliminated  in  the  accompanying
restated consolidated financial statements.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated  financial  statements  include the accounts of Cree, Inc., and
its wholly-owned  subsidiaries,  Cree Lighting Company ("Cree  Lighting"),  Real
Color Displays,  Incorporated.  ("RCD"),  Cree Research FSC, Inc. ("FSC"),  Cree
Funding LLC. ("Cree Funding") and Cree Technologies, Inc. ("Tech"). All material
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

Reclassifications

Certain  1999  and  1998  amounts  in the  accompanying  consolidated  financial
statements  have been  reclassified to conform to the 2000  presentation.  These
reclassifications   had  no  effect  on   previously   reported  net  income  or
shareholders' equity.

Fiscal Year

The Company's fiscal year is a 52 or 53 week period ending on the last Sunday in
the month of June. In fiscal 1998, the Company  changed its fiscal year from the
twelve  months ending June 30, to the annual period ending on the last Sunday in
the month of June.

Estimates

The  preparation  of these  financial  statements in conformity  with  generally
accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,  and the
disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities,  at June 25, 2000 and June 27,
1999, and the reported  amounts of revenues and expenses  during the years ended
June 25, 2000, June 27, 1999 and June 28, 1998. Actual amounts could differ from
those estimates.

                                      -39-
<PAGE>
Revenue Recognition

The Company  recognizes product revenue at the time of shipment or in accordance
with the terms of the relevant  contract.  Revenue from government  contracts is
recorded on the  percentage-of-completion  method as expenses  per  contract are
incurred.

Contract revenue represents reimbursement by various U.S. Government entities to
aid in the  development of the Company's  technology.  The applicable  contracts
generally  provide that the Company may elect to retain  ownership of inventions
made in  performing  the  work,  subject  to a  non-transferable,  non-exclusive
license  retained by the  government to practice the  inventions  for government
purposes.  Contract  revenue includes funding of direct research and development
costs and a portion of the  Company's  general and  administrative  expenses and
other operating expenses for contracts under which funding is expected to exceed
direct  costs  over  the  life  of  the  contract.  The  specific  reimbursement
provisions of the contracts,  including the portion of the Company's general and
administrative  expenses and other operating expenses that are reimbursed,  vary
by contract. Such reimbursements are recorded as contract revenue. For contracts
under which the Company  anticipates that direct costs will exceed amounts to be
funded over the life of the contract  (i.e.,  certain cost share  arrangements),
the Company  reports  direct costs as research  and  development  expenses  with
related reimbursements recorded as an offset to those expenses.

In September 1996, the Company entered into a license and supply  agreement with
Shin-Etsu  Handotai Co. LTD.  ("Shin-Etsu") and other parties to use certain LED
fabrication  technology and has agreed to supply silicon carbide wafers required
to manufacture the licensed product.  The license agreement provides for payment
of a license fee and  royalties  based on a percentage of sales of products made
using the licensed technology. The license fee was payable in installments which
totaled $2.7 million.  As of June 25, 2000,  all license fees had been received.
Substantially  all  of  the  Company's  obligations  to  transfer  the  licensed
technology  were  performed  during fiscal 1997 and the net present value of the
license fee payments and commission were recognized in that year.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash  equivalents  consist of  unrestricted  cash  accounts  and highly
liquid  investments  with an  original  maturity  of three  months  or less when
purchased.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying  amounts of cash and cash  equivalents,  short-term  and  long-term
investments,  available for sale securities,  accounts and interest  receivable,
accounts payable, debt, and other liabilities approximate fair value at June 25,
2000 and June 27, 1999.

Investments

Investments  are  accounted  for  in  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 115 (SFAS 115) "Accounting for Certain  Investments in
Debt and Equity  Securities".  This statement  requires certain securities to be
classified into three categories:

          (a)   Securities Held-to-Maturity- Debt securities that the entity has
                the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are reported
                at amortized cost.

                                      -40-

<PAGE>
          (b)   Trading  Securities- Debt and equity  securities that are bought
                and held principally for the purpose of selling in the near term
                are  reported at fair value,  with  unrealized  gains and losses
                included in earnings.
          (c)   Securities  Available-for-Sale-  Debt and equity  securities not
                classified  as either  securities  held-to-maturity  or  trading
                securities are reported at fair value with  unrealized  gains or
                losses  excluded  from  earnings  and  reported  as  a  separate
                component of shareholders' equity.

At June 25,  2000,  and June 27,  1999,  the Company  held a  short-term  equity
investment in common stock of Microvision,  Inc. ("MVIS"). The Company purchased
268,600 common shares in a private equity  transaction in May 1999 at a price of
$16.75 per share,  or $4.5  million.  Pursuant to an agreement  signed March 17,
2000, the Company committed to increase its equity position in MVIS by investing
an additional $12.5 million in MVIS common stock. This additional investment was
completed  on April 13, 2000,  when the Company  purchased  250,000  shares at a
price of $50.00 per share. In June 2000,  162,600 MVIS shares were sold for $6.3
million, with a gain on sale recognized for $3.6 million. Management views these
transactions as investments,  and the shares are accounted for as "available for
sale"  securities  under  SFAS 115.  Therefore  unrealized  gains or losses  are
excluded from earnings and are recorded in other  comprehensive  income,  net of
tax.  For the years ended June 25, 2000,  June 27, 1999 and June 28,  1998,  the
Company recorded unrealized holding gains on this investment of $900,000 (net of
tax of $600,000),  $1.0 million (net of tax of $700,000),  and $0, respectively.
The fair market  value of the MVIS  investment  as of June 25,  2000,  using the
closing sale price as of June 23, 2000, was $15.8 million,  representing 356,000
shares.  The fair market value of this  investment  as of June 27, 1999 was $6.1
million.

As of June 25,  2000,  the  Company's  short-term  investments  held to maturity
included  $142.5  million  consisting of $97.9  million in high-grade  corporate
bonds, $15.0 million in government securities, and $29.6 million in a closed end
mutual fund investing in high grade corporate  securities that mature within one
year. The Company  purchased the investments with a portion of the proceeds from
its public  stock  offering  in January  2000.  The  Company  has the intent and
ability to hold these securities until maturity;  therefore,  they are accounted
for as "securities held-to-maturity" under SFAS 115. The securities are reported
on the balance sheet at amortized  cost, as a short-term  investment with unpaid
interest included in interest receivable.

As of June 25,  2000,  the  Company's  long-term  investments  held to  maturity
consisted of $42.0  million in  high-grade  corporate  bond holdings that mature
after June 25, 2001. The Company purchased the corporate bonds with a portion of
the proceeds from the public stock offering in January 2000. The Company has the
intent and ability to hold these securities until maturity;  therefore, they are
accounted for as  "securities  held-to-maturity"  under SFAS 115. The securities
are reported on the balance  sheet at  amortized  cost,  as a long-term  held to
maturity  investment  with unpaid  interest  included in interest  receivable if
interest  is due in less  than 12  months,  and as a  long-term  other  asset if
interest is due in more than 12 months.

During fiscal 2000, the Company purchased and sold marketable trading securities
that  resulted in the Company  recording a realized gain on the sale of stock of
$500,000.

As of June 28, 1998, the Company's  short-term  investments  consisted of common
stock  holdings in Charles & Colvard,  or C&C, the majority of which were bought
in  November  1997.  The  Company  also  acquired  additional  shares  of C&C in
September  1998 and acquired  24,601  shares  directly  from C&C pursuant to the
exercise  of an  option  in  January  1997.  This  investment  was  treated  for
accounting

                                      -41-

<PAGE>
purposes as a trading  security,  with net  realized  and  unrealized  gains and
losses  included  in net  earnings.  All common  shares of C&C held by Cree were
subsequently sold during fiscal 1999. Realized gains on shares of C&C stock sold
during  fiscal 1999 by the Company  were  $140,000.  This amount was recorded as
other  income.  Approximately  $32,000 of net loss was  recorded to other income
(expense) in fiscal 1998 related to this investment.

Inventories

Inventories  are  stated  at the  lower  of  cost or  market,  with  cost  being
determined using the first-in,  first-out (FIFO) method.  Inventories consist of
the following:

                                                      Year Ended (in 000s)
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                 June 25,           June 27,
                                                  2000               1999
                                             ---------------    ----------------
  Raw materials                                  $2,415             $1,290
  Work-in-progre                                  3,094              1,675
  Finished goods                                  3,811              1,021
                                             ---------------    ----------------
                                                 $9,320             $3,986
                                             ===============    ================

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are recorded at cost and  depreciated on a  straight-line
basis over the estimated  useful lives of the assets,  which range from three to
twenty years.  Leasehold improvements are amortized over the life of the related
lease.  Expenditures  for  repairs  and  maintenance  are  charged to expense as
incurred.  The costs of major  renewals  and  betterments  are  capitalized  and
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. The cost and related  accumulated
depreciation  of the assets are removed from the accounts upon  disposition  and
any resulting  gain or loss is reflected in  operations.  During the years ended
June 25,  2000,  June 27,  1999 and June 28,  1998,  the Company  recorded  $1.3
million,  $1.6 million and  $700,000,  respectively,  as losses on retirement of
property and equipment  reflected in other operating expense on the consolidated
statements of income.

The Company has entered  into two  agreements  with C&C to sell  crystal  growth
equipment  manufactured by the Company to C&C at cost plus a reasonable overhead
allocation.  As a result  of these  transactions,  the  Company  has  recognized
$227,000,  $473,000 and $332,000,  in fiscal 2000,  fiscal 1999 and fiscal 1998,
respectively, as "other operating income" for the overhead allocation portion of
the sales price.  These equipment  agreements were completed in October 1999. In
May 2000,  the Company  agreed to purchase all of the crystal  growth  equipment
previously sold to C&C for a purchase price of $5.0 million, which was less than
the Company's direct cost to manufacture the equipment.

In  November   1997,  the  Company   purchased   real  property   consisting  of
approximately  thirty acres of land with a production  facility of approximately
139,000 square feet and a total of  approximately  33,000 square feet of service
and warehouse buildings.  This property is located in Durham, North Carolina, in
the vicinity of the Research  Triangle Park. The purchase price for the land and
buildings  was $3.0  million.  The  Company  has now moved the  majority  of its
employees and production to this facility.

In the second quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company completed a 42,000 square foot
facility  expansion at its production  site near Research  Triangle Park,  North
Carolina.  In the third quarter of fiscal 2000, the

                                      -42-

<PAGE>
Company  purchased a 120,000 square foot facility on 17.5 acres of land adjacent
to the existing  production  site.  The Company  plans to use this  facility for
sales,  general and  administrative and research and development  personnel,  as
well as for  general  employee  services  functions.  The cost to  acquire  this
facility (not including the upfit costs for  completing the shell  building) was
$8.1  million.  In addition,  the Company is currently  engaged in  construction
activities relating to a 250,000 square foot expansion of its facility.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company  assesses the  realizability of the carrying value of its investment
in long-lived  assets whenever events or changes in circumstances  indicate that
an impairment  may have occurred in accordance  with the provisions of Statement
of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 121 ("SFAS No. 121"),  "Accounting  for
Impairment  of Long Lived  Assets and Assets to be Disposed  of". As of June 25,
2000,  the Company has not recorded an impairment  in the carrying  value of its
long-lived assets.

Depreciation

The Company has changed its depreciation policy to reflect lower useful lives on
new manufacturing  equipment. The useful life has been reduced from 9 years to 5
years for all  manufacturing  equipment  purchased since the beginning of fiscal
year 2000. In  management's  estimate,  this new policy was necessary due to the
changes in estimated useful lives of new equipment caused by technology  changes
anticipated with the future  development of larger diameter  wafers.  Management
estimates that the change in policy reduced the Company's fiscal 2000 net income
by $889,000 or $0.03 per share.

Patent and License Rights

Patent  rights  reflect  costs  incurred to enhance and maintain  the  Company's
intellectual property position. License rights reflect costs incurred to use the
intellectual  property of others.  Both are amortized on a straight-line  basis.
During fiscal 1997, the Company changed its previous estimate of the useful life
of patents  from 17 years,  beginning at the date of patent  issue,  to 20 years
from the date of  patent  application.  This  change  was made to  conform  to a
legislative  amendment made to the U.S. patent laws,  which became  effective in
June 1995.  This  change in  estimate  had no  material  impact on net income or
earnings per share,  since the average period of time between patent application
and issue is generally  about three years.  Amortization  expense was  $148,000,
$117,000,  and $102,000 for the years ended June 25,  2000,  June 27, 1999,  and
June 28, 1998,  respectively.  Total  accumulated  amortization  for patents and
license rights was approximately $813,000 and $669,000 at June 25, 2000 and June
27, 1999, respectively.

Goodwill

Goodwill  represented the amount by which the costs to acquire the net assets of
the  Real  Color  Displays  subsidiary  exceeded  their  related  fair  value at
acquisition.  Based on a review of  undiscounted  cash  flows of the  subsidiary
anticipated over the remaining  amortization period, the Company determined that
goodwill had been  impaired.  As a result,  the Company  wrote off the remaining
$66,000 carrying value of such goodwill in the second quarter of fiscal 1998. As
required by generally accepted accounting  principles,  this charge was included
in the results of operations.

                                      -43-
<PAGE>
Research and Development

The U.S.  Government  provides funding through research contracts for several of
the Company's current research and development efforts. The contract funding may
be based on  either a  cost-plus  or a  cost-share  arrangement.  The  amount of
funding under each contract is determined  based on cost  estimates that include
direct  costs,  plus an  allocation  for research and  development,  general and
administrative and the cost of capital expenses. Cost-plus funding is determined
based  on  actual  costs  plus  a set  percentage  margin.  For  the  cost-share
contracts,  the actual  costs are divided  between the U.S.  government  and the
Company based on the terms of the contract.  The government's cost share is then
paid to the  Company.  Activities  performed  under these  arrangements  include
research regarding silicon carbide and gallium nitride materials.  The contracts
typically  require the submission of a written report that documents the results
of such research.

The revenue and expense  classification for contract  activities is based on the
nature of the contract. For contracts where the Company anticipates that funding
will exceed direct costs over the life of the  contract,  funding is reported as
contract revenue and all direct costs are reported as costs of contract revenue.
For contracts under which the Company  anticipates that direct costs will exceed
amounts  to be  funded  over the life of the  contract,  costs are  reported  as
research  and  development  expenses  and related  funding as an offset of those
expenses.  The following  table details  information  about  contracts for which
direct expenses exceed funding by period as included in research and development
expenses:

                                                   Year ended (in 000s)
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         June 25,       June 27,       June 28,
                                           2000           1999           1998
                                         --------       --------       --------
Net research and development costs       $   538        $  --          $   276
Government funding                           868           --              601
                                         --------       --------       --------
Total direct costs incurred              $ 1,406        $  --          $   877
                                         ========       ========       =========


Interest Capitalization

No interest was  capitalized in the fiscal year ended June 25, 2000.  During the
fiscal years ended June 27, 1999,  and June 28,  1998,  the Company  capitalized
interest on funds used to construct property,  plant and equipment in connection
with its newly acquired  facilities.  Interest capitalized for fiscal years 1999
and 1998 was $128,000, and $128,000, respectively.

Credit Risk, Major Customers and Major Suppliers

Financial  instruments,  which may  subject the  Company to a  concentration  of
credit risk, consist principally of marketable securities,  cash equivalents and
accounts  receivable.  Marketable  securities  consist  primarily of  high-grade
corporate debt, commercial paper, government securities and other investments at
interest  rates that vary by security.  The Company's cash  equivalents  consist
primarily of money market funds. Certain bank deposits may at times be in excess
of the FDIC insurance limit.

The Company sells its products to  manufacturers  and researchers  worldwide and
generally  requires no collateral.  The Company maintains reserves for potential
credit losses,  and such losses,  in the  aggregate,  have generally been within
management's  expectations.  The Company  presently derives primarily all of its
contract   revenues  from  contracts  with  the  U.S.   Department  of  Defense.
Approximately 19% and 10%,  respectively,  of the Company's accounts  receivable
balance  at June  25,  2000 and June  27,  1999 was

                                      -44-

<PAGE>
due from the  Department  of Defense.  The Company had amounts due from  Siemens
A.G.  (or its  indirect  subsidiary,  Osram)  totaling  19% and 35%, of accounts
receivable  balances  at June  25,  2000 and June  27,  1999,  respectively.  In
addition,  the Company had amounts due from Sumitomo Corporation totaling 22% of
accounts receivable balances at June 25, 2000.

In May 2000,  the  Company  agreed  to  purchase  $5  million  of  manufacturing
equipment  from C&C. As  consideration  for this  equipment  the Company  offset
existing accounts  receivable from C&C and future product shipments up to the $5
million purchase price. As a result,  no accounts  receivable  balances were due
from C&C at June 25, 2000.  At June 27,  1999,  the Company had amounts due from
C&C totaling 17% of accounts receivable balances.

The Company has derived  its  product  and  contract  revenue  from sales in the
United States, the Far East, and Europe as follows:


                                                      Year ended
                                             ------------------------------
                                             June 25,   June 27,   June 28,
                                               2000       1999       1998
                                             --------   --------   --------
        United States                           31%        41%        42%
        Far East                                64%        48%        39%
        Europe                                   5%        11%        19%

One customer  accounted for 26%, 35%, and 40% of revenue for fiscal 2000,  1999,
and 1998,  respectively.  Another  customer  accounted  for 15%, 18%, and 10% of
revenue  for  fiscal  2000,  1999,  and  1998,  respectively.  A third  customer
accounted  for  25%,  7%,  and  8% of  revenue  fiscal  2000,  1999,  and  1998,
respectively.  The  Department  of Defense  accounted  for 90%,  96%, and 94% of
contract revenues during fiscal 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.

The Company  depends on single or limited  source  suppliers for a number of raw
materials  and  components  used  in  its  SiC  wafer  products  and  LEDs.  Any
interruption  in the supply of these key  materials or  components  could have a
significant adverse effect on the Company's operations.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per common share is computed using the weighted average number of
common stock shares  outstanding.  Diluted earnings per common share is computed
using the weighted  average number of common stock shares  outstanding  adjusted
for the  incremental  shares  attributed to outstanding  options and warrants to
purchase common stock.

Accounting for Stock Based Compensation

In accordance with Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting for
Stock Issued to  Employees",  no  compensation  is recorded for stock options or
other  stock-based  awards that are granted to employees  with an exercise price
equal to or above the common stock price on the grant date.

In October 1995,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  ("FASB")  issued
Statement No. 123 ("SFAS 123"),  "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation." This
Statement establishes fair value as the measurement basis for equity instruments
issued in exchange for goods or services  and  stock-based  compensation  plans.
Fair value may be measured using quoted market prices,  option-pricing models or
other  reasonable  estimation  methods.  SFAS 123  permits the Company to choose
between  adoption of

                                      -45-

<PAGE>
the fair value based method or disclosing pro forma net income information.  The
Statement is effective for  transactions  entered into after  December 31, 1995.
The Company will continue to account for stock-based  compensation in accordance
with Accounting  Principles  Board Opinion No. 25, as amended,  and will provide
the pro forma disclosures required by SFAS 123.

3.  ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET

The following is a summary of the components of accounts receivable:

                                         Year Ended (in 000s)
                                       -----------------------
                                       June 25,       June 27,
                                         2000           1999
                                       --------       --------
 Billed trade receivables              $ 10,262       $ 14,645
 Unbilled contract receivables            2,394          1,629
                                       --------       --------
                                         12,656         16,274
 Allowance for doubtful accounts          (250)          (175)
                                       --------       --------
 Total accounts receivable, net        $ 12,406       $ 16,099
                                       ========       ========


The  following  table  summarizes  the changes in the  Company's  allowance  for
doubtful accounts for the years ended June 25, 2000, June 27, 1999, and June 28,
1998:

                                                 Year Ended (in 000s)
                                     ------------------------------------------
                                     June 25,         June 27,         June 28,
                                       2000             1999             1998
                                     --------         --------         --------
Balance at beginning of year          $ 175            $ 151            $ 216
Charges to cost and expenses             75               24               50
Deductions (write-offs to reserve)       --               --             (115)
                                     --------         --------         ---------
Balance at end of year                $ 250            $ 175            $ 151
                                     ========         ========         =========


4.  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

The following is a summary of property and equipment:

                                                 Year ended (in 000s)
                                           -------------------------------
                                           June 25,               June 27,
                                             2000                   1999
                                           --------               --------
   Office equipment and furnishings        $  2,765               $  1,948
   Land & Buildings                          41,087                 21,031
   Machinery and equipment                   77,856                 47,804
   Leasehold improvements                     1,461                  1,549
                                           --------               --------
                                            123,169                 72,332
   Accumulated depreciation                (22,633)               (13,670)
                                           --------               --------
                                            100,536                 58,662
   Construction in progress                  36,582                 12,468
                                           --------               --------
   Net Property & Equipment                $137,118                $71,130
                                           ========               ========


Depreciation and  amortization of property and equipment  totaled $10.8 million,
$5.6 million, and $4.4 million for the years ended June 25, 2000, June 27, 1999,
and June 28, 1998, respectively.

                                      -46-
<PAGE>
5.   SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

On January 20, 2000, the Company completed a public offering of 3,289,000 shares
of its common  stock at a price to the public of $85.125 per share.  The Company
received net aggregate proceeds of approximately  $266.1 million after deducting
underwriting  discounts and  commissions and estimated  offering costs.  The net
proceeds are being used  primarily  for  manufacturing  facility  expansion  and
purchase of additional  equipment,  the  acquisition of an additional  facility,
research and development, and general corporate purposes.

At June 27, 1999, the Articles of  Incorporation  of the Company  authorized the
Company to issue up to 30,000,000  shares of common  stock,  with a par value of
$0.005 per share, and 3,000,000  shares of preferred stock,  with a par value of
$0.01 per share.  The  preferred  stock may be issued in one or more  classes or
series with the number of shares, designation, relative rights, preferences, and
limitations  of each class or series to be determined by resolution of the Board
of Directors. The Articles of Incorporation were amended, effective at the close
of business on July 26, 1999, to effect a two-for-one split of the common stock.
As a  result,  as of the  effective  date  of the  amendment,  the  Articles  of
Incorporation  authorize the Company to issue up to 60,000,000  shares of common
stock,  with a par value of $0.0025 per share.  The amendment did not change the
number of authorized shares or other provisions relating to the preferred stock.
On July 30, 1999,  the Company issued to each holder of record of common stock a
certificate  evidencing the additional shares of common stock resulting from the
stock  split.  All  references  in this  document to common stock and per common
share data have been adjusted to reflect the common stock split.

On February 17, 1999, the Company  completed a public offering selling 2,990,000
shares of its common stock at a price of $19.69 per share.  The Company received
net  aggregate   proceeds  of   approximately   $55.2  million  after  deducting
underwriter  discounts  and  estimated  offering  costs.  A  portion  of the net
proceeds, $10 million, was used to repay debt to a commercial bank. The majority
of the funds are being used for plant  expansion  and the  balance  for  general
corporate  purposes,  including working capital and potential  acquisition of or
investments in complementary businesses.

At June 25, 2000,  the Company had  reserved a total of 5,486,472  shares of its
common stock for future issuance as follows.

                                                              Number of shares
                                                              ----------------
    For exercise of outstanding warrants to purchase
        common stock                                                246,680
    For exercise of outstanding common stock options              4,089,527
    For future common stock option awards                           872,904
    For possible future issuance to employees under the
        Employee Stock Purchase Plan                                277,361
                                                              ----------------
    Total reserved                                                5,486,472
                                                              ================





                                      -47-
<PAGE>
6.  STOCK OPTIONS AND STOCK WARRANTS

As permitted by SFAS 123, "Accounting For Stock-Based Compensation", the Company
has elected to follow  Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees"  and related  interpretations  and  amendments in
accounting  for its  employee  stock  option  plans.  The Company  has  recorded
deferred compensation expense of $1.8 million,  $1.0 million, and $100,000,  for
the  difference  between  the grant price and the deemed fair value of stock and
stock options granted for the years ended June 25, 2000, June 27, 1999, and June
28,  1998,  respectively.   Of  this  deferred  compensation  amount,  $980,000,
$142,000,  and $10,000 was amortized for the years ended June 25, 2000, June 27,
1999, and June 28, 1998, respectively.

As of June 25, 2000, the Company's Amended and Restated Equity Compensation Plan
(the "Plan") has authorized  the grant of options for up to 6,880,000  shares of
the Company's  common stock. All options granted have 10 year terms and vest and
become fully exercisable within 5 years. The Company had granted 192,000 options
with a 10 year term for shares of the  Company's  common  stock  under the Stock
Option Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors.  This plan was  terminated in November
1997 and all 192,000  options  granted under this plan are now fully vested.  At
June 25, 2000, there were also outstanding options to purchase 136,543 shares of
the  Company's  common  stock  pursuant  to  option  agreements  assumed  in the
acquisition of Nitres, Inc. The Company's current stock plans provide for grants
of options with exercise  prices equal to or exceeding  fair market value on the
date of grant.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
SFAS 123,  and has been  determined  as if the  Company  had  accounted  for its
employee stock options under the fair value method of that  Statement.  The fair
value of these options was estimated at the date of grant using a  Black-Scholes
option pricing model with weighted  average risk free rates of interest of 6.24%
and 5.3%, for the years ended June 25, 2000 and June 27, 1999, respectively. The
volatility  factor of the expected market price of the Company's common stock is
0.882 and the  weighted-average  expected  life of the  options  was 7 years for
executives and directors and 5 years for other employees.

For purposes of pro forma  disclosures,  the estimated fair value of the options
is amortized to expense over the options'  vesting  period.  The  Company's  pro
forma information is as follows:


<PAGE>


                                    Year ended (in 000's, except per share data)
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                    June 25,         June 27,          June 28,
                                      2000             1999              1998
                                    -------          --------         --------
Net income, as reported             $30,520          $ 12,448          $  6,243
Earnings per share, as reported:
         Basic                        $0.93             $0.43             $0.23
         Diluted                      $0.87             $0.41             $0.22

Pro forma net income, as adjusted    21,507             8,714             4,373
   for SFAS 123
Pro forma earnings per share,
   as adjusted for SFAS 123:
         Basic                        $0.65             $0.30            $ 0.16
         Diluted                      $0.61             $0.29            $ 0.15

The following  table details the number of stock options  outstanding  and their
related exercise prices and weighted-average  remaining  contractual lives as of
June 25, 2000:

                                      -48-
<PAGE>
                                                            Weighted-Average
                                                                Remaining
               Exercise Price      Number of Options        Contractual Life
               --------------      -----------------       -----------------
                   $ 0.01               136,543                  9 years
                   $ 1.56                16,000                  4 years
                   $ 1.81                91,161                  3 years
                   $ 1.88                 9,668                  1 year
                   $ 2.00                42,350                  4 years
                   $ 2.19                12,000                  4 years
                   $ 3.41                 8,000                  3 years
                   $ 3.69                12,000                  4 years
                   $ 4.69                30,530                  7 years
                   $ 5.13                13,200                  7 years
                   $ 5.60                15,950                  6 years
                   $ 6.49               544,250                  7 years
                   $ 7.13                39,150                  8 years
                   $ 7.19               124,210                  6 years
                   $ 7.63               969,800                  8 years
                   $ 7.88                72,000                  6 years
                   $ 8.19                37,630                  8 years
                   $ 8.38                 8,000                  8 years
                   $ 8.88                28,990                  8 years
                   $ 9.38                54,300                  7 years
                   $ 9.69                20,000                  8 years
                   $12.32                90,000                  8 years
                   $20.50               115,200                  9 years
                   $22.60               125,745                  9 years
                   $22.63                66,450                  9 years
                   $33.56               208,500                  9 years
                   $34.31                12,000                  9 years
                   $37.75               468,000                  9 years
                   $83.94               576,900                 10 years
                  $104.94               141,000                 10 years
                                   -----------------
                                      4,089,527
                                   =================

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Total Stock Option Activity - Year ended
                           -------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               June 25, 2000              June 27, 1999             June 28, 1998
                           Number of   Weighted       Number of   Weighted      Number of   Weighted
                            Options    Average         Options    Average        Options    Average
                           (in 000s)    Price         (in 000s)     Price       (in 000s)    Price
                           ---------   --------       ---------   --------      ---------   --------
<S>                        <C>         <C>            <C>         <C>           <C>         <C>
Outstanding -
beginning of year             3,613     $ 8.14          2,410      $ 5.10         1,854      $ 2.38
Granted                       1,753      51.45          1,712       10.85         1,084        6.99
Exercised                   (1,075)       5.13          (418)        3.63         (434)        3.90
Forfeited                     (201)      16.14           (91)        7.08          (94)        4.34
                           ---------   --------       ---------   --------      ---------   --------
Outstanding -
end of year                   4,090     $27.09         3,613       $ 8.14         2,410      $ 5.10
                           =========   ========       =========   ========      =========   ========

Exercisable at
end of year                   1,353     $ 5.98         1,478       $ 5.39         1,198      $ 4.20
                           =========   ========       =========   ========      =========   ========
</TABLE>


                                      -49-
<PAGE>
In connection with the Company's  September 1995 private placement,  the Company
issued  600,000  warrants,  which  have  an  exercise  price  of  $13.62,  which
represents fair value on the date of grant, and expire September 2000.  Warrants
to purchase 27,000 and 342,000 shares of common stock were exercised  during the
fiscal  years ended June 25, 2000 and June 27, 1999,  respectively.  Warrants to
purchase 231,000 shares remain  outstanding  under this private  placement as of
June 25, 2000.  As of June 25,  2000,  there were also  outstanding  warrants to
purchase  15,680 shares of the Company's  common stock,  at an exercise price of
$2.55 per share,  which expire  February 2007.  These  warrants were  originally
issued by Nitres,  Inc. in February  2000 and were assumed by the Company in its
acquisition of Nitres, Inc. in May 2000.

7.  LEASE COMMITMENTS

The Company currently leases five facilities.  These facilities are comprised of
both office and  manufacturing  space.  The first facility has a remaining lease
period of  approximately  one and one half years.  The lease term for the second
facility began in September 1995 and a renewal option was exercised in September
1999. At June 25, 2000, the second  facility lease has a remaining  lease period
of approximately  two years with an option to renew for an additional two years.
The leases for the third and fourth facilities expire in December 2000 and April
2001,  respectively.  The lease  term on the fifth  facility  runs from month to
month. All of the remaining lease agreements  provide for rental adjustments for
increases  in property  taxes,  the  consumer  price index and general  property
maintenance.

Rent expense  associated  with these and other expired leases totaled  $420,000,
$478,000,  and $562,000 for the years ended June 25,  2000,  June 27, 1999,  and
June 28, 1998,  respectively.  Future minimum  rentals as of June 25, 2000 under
these leases are as follows:

                                                         Minimum Rental
                                                             Amount
                            Fiscal Years Ended             (in 000s)
                            ------------------           --------------
                               June 24, 2001                  $383
                               June 30, 2002                   207
                               June 30, 2003                    12
                                                         --------------
                               Total                          $602
                                                         ==============

8.  LONG-TERM DEBT

In December 1998, Cree Lighting  (previously  Nitres,  Inc.) received a $431,000
bridge loan from a group of investors to finance its working capital needs.  The
bridge loan was made to Cree Lighting  subject to  conversion  rights that would
cause  conversion  to shares  of the  Company's  common  stock in the event of a
financing or one year passing.  At June 27, 1999,  the investor  bridge loan was
still  outstanding.  In February 2000, the $431,000 bridge loan was converted to
168,750 shares of the Company's  common stock.  In September 1997, Cree Lighting
purchased  equipment on credit and issued a note to the  equipment  manufacturer
for $382,000. Payments on the note were made in quarterly installments beginning
in January 1998.  At June 27, 1999,  obligations  under the equipment  note were
approximately $48,000. The balance on the note was repaid in September 1999.

In November  1997, the Company  entered into a term loan with a commercial  bank
for up to $10.0  million  to  finance  the  purchase  and  upfit of the new main
facility in Durham,  North  Carolina.  Approximately  $3.0 million was disbursed
under  the  loan to  finance  the  initial  purchase  of the  facility  with the
remaining  proceeds  disbursed on a monthly  basis based on actual  expenditures
incurred.  The loan,  which was  collateralized  by the  purchased  property and
subsequent upfits,  accrued interest at a

                                      -50-

<PAGE>
fixed rate of 8% and carried customary covenants, including the maintenance of a
minimum  tangible net worth and other  requirements.  On February 17, 1999,  the
entire $10.0 million  indebtedness  was repaid with  proceeds  received from the
public stock offering.  Interest expense was $13,000,  $282,000, and $93,000 for
the years ended June 25, 2000, June 27, 1999, and June 28, 1998, respectively.

9.  INCOME TAXES

The Company  accounts for its income taxes under the  provisions of Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 109 ("SFAS 109"),  "Accounting  for Income
Taxes."  Under the asset and liability  method of SFAS 109,  deferred tax assets
and  liabilities  are  recognized  for the  estimated  future  tax  consequences
attributable to differences  between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing  assets and liabilities  and their  respective tax bases.  Deferred tax
assets and  liabilities  are measured  using enacted tax rates in effect for the
year in which  those  temporary  differences  are  expected to be  recovered  or
settled.  Under SFAS 109, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is  recognized  in income in the period  that  includes  the
enactment date.

The actual income tax expense for the years ended June 25, 2000,  June 27, 1999,
and June 28,  1998  differed  from the amounts  computed  by  applying  the U.S.
federal tax rate of 35% in fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999,  and 34% in fiscal 1998,
to pretax earnings as a result of the following:

                                                     Year Ending (in 000s)
                                              ----------------------------------
                                              June 25,     June 27,     June 28,
                                                2000         1999         1998
                                              --------     --------     --------
Federal income tax provision at
  statutory rate                              $ 16,382     $ 6,174      $ 3,018
State tax provision                              1,517         211          166
Increase (decrease) in income
  tax expense  resulting from:
         Foreign sales corporation             (1,682)       (510)        (214)
         Decrease in valuation allowance          --         (290)        (358)
         Research and development                (258)       (251)          --
         State tax credits                        --         (394)          --
         Non-deductible transaction costs          327         --           --
         Other                                    --          (48)         (21)
                                              --------     --------     --------
Income tax expense                            $ 16,286     $ 4,892      $ 2,591
                                              ========     =======      ========


The following are the components of the provision for income taxes for the years
ended June 25, 2000, June 27, 1999, and June 28, 1998:

                                          Year Ending (in 000s)
                                  ------------------------------------
                                  June 25,      June 27,      June 28,
                                   2000           1999          1998
                                  --------      --------      --------
Current:
      Federal                     $   856       $ 2,553       $   699
      Foreign Tax Withholding         --           --              50
      State                           200           300           269
                                  --------      --------      --------
                                    1,056         2,853         1,018
Deferred:
      Federal                      15,111         2,299         1,573
      State                           119         (260)           --
                                  --------      --------      --------
                                   15,230         2,039         1,573

Net Provision                     $16,286       $ 4,892       $ 2,591
                                  ========      ========      ========


                                      -51-
<PAGE>
The tax effects of temporary  differences that give rise to significant portions
of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows:

                                                 Year Ending (in 000s)
                                                ----------------------
                                                June 25,      June 27,
                                                  2000          1999
                                                --------      --------
    Deferred tax assets:
      Net operating loss carryforwards          $11,641       $    97
      Research tax credits                          785           420
      Compensation                                  268           105
      Inventory                                     202           126
      Bad debt                                       93            65
      Alternative minimum tax                     1,690         1,513
      Foreign tax credit                              0           270
      Other                                         526           527
                                                --------      --------
    Total gross deferred tax assets              15,205         3,123
    Less valuation allowance                         --            --
                                                --------      --------
    Total net deferred tax assets                15,205         3,123

   Deferred tax liabilities:
      Marketable equity securities                  658           658
      Property and equipment depreciation         6,060         3,992
                                                --------      --------
    Gross deferred tax liabilities                6,718         4,650
                                                --------      --------
    Net deferred tax assets (liability)         $ 8,487       $(1,527)
                                                =======       ========

As of June 25,  2000,  the  Company has net  operating  loss  carryforwards  for
federal  purposes of $25 million  and $38  million for state  purposes.  The net
operating losses have been generated from the tax benefits associated with stock
options,  which have been accounted for as an addition to paid-in  capital.  The
state net economic loss  carryforward  will expire beginning in 2004 and federal
operating loss carryforwards will expire beginning in 2020.

10.  EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

The Company  adopted an Employee Stock  Purchase Plan (the  "Purchase  Plan") on
November 2, 1999. The Purchase Plan provides  employees of the Company,  and its
majority-owned  subsidiaries,  with an  opportunity  to  purchase  common  stock
through payroll deductions. The purchase price is set at 85% of the lower of the
fair market value of common stock at the beginning of the  participation  period
or on a  purchase  date.  Contributions  are  limited  to 15%  of an  employee's
compensation.  The  participation  periods  have a 12 month  duration,  with new
participation  periods  beginning  in  November  and  May  of  each  year.  Each
participation  period has two  purchase  dates,  one in October and the other in
April.  The first  participation  period began on November 2, 1999 and the first
purchase date was April 30, 2000.  The Board of Directors  has reserved  300,000
shares of common stock for  issuance  under the  Purchase  Plan.  As of June 25,
2000, 22,639 shares of common stock had been purchased under the Purchase Plan.

11.  RETIREMENT PLAN

The Company  maintains an employee benefit plan (the "Plan") pursuant to Section
401(k) of the Internal  Revenue Code.  Under the Plan,  there is no fixed dollar
amount of retirement  benefits,  and actual

                                      -52-

<PAGE>
benefits  received by  employees  will  depend on the amount of each  employee's
account  balance  at the time of  retirement.  All  employees  are  eligible  to
participate  under the Plan on the first day of a new fiscal  quarter after date
of hire. The Pension Benefit Guaranty  Corporation does not insure the Plan. The
Company may, at its discretion,  make  contributions to the Plan.  However,  the
Company did not make any  contributions  to the Plan during the years ended June
25, 2000, June 27, 1999, and June 28, 1998.

12.   EARNINGS PER SHARE

The Company has adopted Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards (SFAS) No.
128,  "Earnings Per Share",  as of December 28, 1997.  SFAS No. 128 required the
Company to change its method of computing,  presenting and  disclosing  earnings
per share  information.  All prior period data  presented  has been  restated to
conform to the provisions of SFAS No. 128.

The  following  computation  reconciles  the  differences  between the basic and
diluted presentations:

                                    Year ended (in 000's, except per share data)
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                    June 25,          June 27,          June 28,
                                      2000              1999              1998
                                    --------          --------          --------
Basic:
Net income                          $ 30,520          $ 12,448          $ 6,243
                                    ========          ========          ========
Weighted average common shares        32,965            29,015           27,726
                                    ========          ========          ========
Basic earnings per share               $0.93            $ 0.43           $ 0.23
                                    ========          ========          ========

Diluted:
Net income                          $ 30,520          $ 12,448          $ 6,243
                                    ========          ========          ========
Weighted average common shares
  -basic                              32,965            29,015           27,726
Dilutive effect of stock options
  & warrants                           2,252             1,417            1,261
                                    --------          --------          --------
Weighted average common shares
  -diluted                            35,217            30,432           28,987
                                    ========          ========          ========
Diluted earnings per share             $0.87            $ 0.41           $ 0.22
                                    ========          ========          ========

Potential  common  shares  that  would  have the  effect of  increasing  diluted
earnings per share are considered to be  antidilutive.  In accordance  with SFAS
No. 128,  these shares were not  included in  calculating  diluted  earnings per
share.  As of June 25, 2000 and June 27, 1999,  there were no  potential  shares
considered  to be  antidilutive.  For the year ended June 28,  1998,  there were
225,000 shares that were not included in calculating  diluted earnings per share
because their effect was antidilutive.

3.   NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In June 1998, The Financial  Accounting Standards Board issues Statement No. 133
"Accounting  for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging  Activities"  ("SFAS 133"),
which is required to be adopted in years  beginning  after June 15,  1999.  SFAS
133, as amended by SFAS 137 and SFAS 138, is effective  for all fiscal  quarters
of fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000.  Because of the Company's minimal
use of derivatives,  management does not anticipate that the adoption of the new
Statement will have a significant  effect on earnings or the financial  position
of the Company.

Item 9.   Changes  in  and  Disagreements  with  Accountants  on Accounting  and
          Financial Disclosure

           None.

                                      -53-
<PAGE>
                                    PART III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers

Item 11.   Executive Compensation

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The  information  called for in items 10 through 13 is incorporated by reference
from the Company's  definitive proxy statement relating to its annual meeting of
stockholders,  which will be filed with the Securities  and Exchange  Commission
within 120 days after the end of fiscal 2000.





















                                      -54-
<PAGE>
                                     PART IV

Item 14.     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)  (1) and (2) Financial  statements  and financial  statement  schedule - the
     financial  statements and reports of independent auditors are filed as part
     of this report (see index to Consolidated  Financial  Statements at Part II
     Item 8 on page 30 of this Form 10-K). The financial statement schedules are
     not included  herein as they are either not  applicable  or are included as
     part of the consolidated financial statements.

(a)  (3) The following  exhibits  have been or are being filed  herewith and are
     numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K:

     EXHIBIT NO.    DESCRIPTION
     -----------    -----------
         3.1        Articles of Incorporation, as amended (1)
         3.2        Bylaws, as amended (1)
         4.1        Specimen Common Stock Certificate (1)
        10.1        Equity Compensation Plan, as amended and restated
                    August 24, 1999 (2) *
        10.2        Stock Option Plan for  Non-Employee  Directors (terminated
                    as to future grants pursuant to Board action dated
                    September 1, 1997) (3) *
        10.3        Management Incentive Compensation Program - Fiscal Year
                    2000 Plan (1) *
        10.4        License Agreement between the Company and North Carolina
                    State University dated December 3, 1987 (4)
        10.5        Amendment to License Agreement between the Company and
                    North Carolina State University dated September 11, 1989 (4)
        10.6        Development, License and Supply Agreement between the
                    Company and Siemens A.G. dated October 24, 1995 (5)
        10.7        Purchase Agreement between the Company and Siemens A.G.
                    dated September 6, 1996 (6)
        10.8        First  Amendment to Purchase Agreement between the Company
                    and Siemens A.G. dated April 22, 1997 (7)
        10.9        Second Amendment to Purchase  Agreement between the Company
                    and Siemens A.G. dated December 9, 1997 (8)
       10.10        Third Amendment to Purchase  Agreement between the Company
                    and Siemens A.G.dated September 8, 1998 (9)
       10.11        Fourth  Amendment to Purchase Agreement  between the Company
                    and Siemens A.G. dated December 16, 1998 (10)
       10.12        Transformation  Agreement  with Siemens  A.G. and OSRAM Opto
                    Semiconductors GmbH & Co. OHG effective January 1, 1999 (11)
       10.13        Purchase Agreement between the Company and Osram Opto  Semi-
                    conductors GmbH & Co. dated August 30, 1999 (2)
       10.14        Merger  Agreement dated as of April 10, 2000 among Cree,
                    Inc., Crystal Acquisition, Inc., Nitres, Inc. and share-
                    holders of Nitres, Inc. listed on signature pages thereto
        11.1        Computation of Per Share Earnings
        21.1        Subsidiaries of Registrant
        23.1        Consent of Independent Auditors
        23.2        Consent of Independent Accountants
        27.1        Financial Data Schedule (for SEC use only)
        99.1        Report of Independent Auditors

                                      -55-
<PAGE>
(1)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Registration  Statement filed on Form S-3, Registration No. 333-94013,  and
     declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 13,
     2000.

(2)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Quarterly  Report  filed on Form  10-Q  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission on November 4, 1999.

(3)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Registration  Statement filed on Form S-8,  Registration No. 33-98958,  and
     effective with the Securities and Exchange  Commission on November 3, 1995.

(4)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Registration  Statement filed on Form SB-2,  Registration No. 33-55998, and
     declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 8,
     1993.

(5)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Registration  Statement filed on Form S-3,  Registration No. 33-98728,  and
     declared  effective by the Securities  and Exchange  Commission on December
     27, 1995. Confidential treatment of portions of this exhibit was granted by
     the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  pursuant to Rule 24b-2 by order
     dated December 29, 1995.

(6)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Annual  Report  filed  on  Form  10-K  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission  on September  30, 1996.  Confidential  treatment of portions of
     this exhibit was granted by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant
     to Rule 24b-2 by order dated November 21, 1996.

(7)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Quarterly  Report  filed on Form  10-Q  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission  on May 2, 1997.  Confidential  treatment  of  portions  of this
     exhibit was granted by the Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to
     Rule 24b-2 by order dated June 26, 1997.

(8)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Quarterly  Report  filed on Form  10-Q  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission on January 30, 1998.  Confidential treatment of portions of this
     exhibit was granted by the Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to
     Rule 24b-2 by order dated February 12, 1998.

(9)  Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Quarterly  Report  filed on Form  10-Q  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission on October 30, 1998.  Confidential treatment of portions of this
     exhibit was granted by the Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to
     Rule 24b-2 by order dated November 23, 1998.

(10) Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Quarterly  Report  filed on Form  10-Q  with the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission on January 28, 1999.  Confidential treatment of portions of this
     exhibit was granted by the Securities and Exchange  Commission  pursuant to
     Rule 24b-2 by order dated February 24, 1999.

(11) Incorporated  by  reference  herein.  Filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
     Annual  Report  filed  on  Form  10-K  with  the  Securities  and  Exchange
     Commission on August 12, 1999.

*  Compensatory Plan

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.  There were no reports on Form 8-K filed by the Company
    during the three months ended June 25, 2000.

                                      -56-
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant  to the  requirements  of  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  and
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                            CREE, INC.
Date:  August 10, 2000
                                            By: /s/ F. Neal Hunter
                                                --------------------------------
                                                F. Neal Hunter
                                                Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

      Signature                           Title                       Date
      ---------                           -----                       ----

  /s/ F. Neal Hunter             Chairman of the Board and       August 10, 2000
- ----------------------------     Chief Executive Officer
F. Neal Hunter


   /s/ Cynthia B. Merrell        Chief Financial Officer         August 10, 2000
- ----------------------------
Cynthia B. Merrell


   /s/ Calvin H. Carter, Jr.     Director                        August 10, 2000
- ----------------------------
Calvin H. Carter, Jr., Ph.D.


   /s/ James E. Dykes            Director                        August 10, 2000
- ----------------------------
James E. Dykes


   /s/ Michael W. Haley          Director                        August 10, 2000
- ----------------------------
Michael W. Haley


   /s/ John W. Palmour           Director                        August 10, 2000
- ----------------------------
John W. Palmour, Ph.D


   /s/ Walter L. Robb            Director                        August 10, 2000
- ----------------------------
Walter L. Robb, Ph.D.

                                 Director                        August 10, 2000
- ----------------------------
Dolph W. von Arx

                                      -57-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.14
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>0002.txt
<DESCRIPTION>NITRES MERGER AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.14



- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                MERGER AGREEMENT

                           DATED AS OF APRIL 10, 2000


                                  BY AND AMONG

                                   CREE, INC.,

                            CRYSTAL ACQUISITION, INC.

                                  NITRES, INC.

                                       AND

                       THOSE SHAREHOLDERS OF NITRES, INC.
                      LISTED ON THE SIGNATURE PAGES HERETO

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------



<PAGE>
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                            <C>
ARTICLE I - THE MERGER .........................................................................1
   1.1 The Merger ..............................................................................1
   1.2 Exchange Procedures .....................................................................4
   1.3 Parties' Intent .........................................................................5
   1.4 Issuances into Escrow ...................................................................5
   1.5 Closing .................................................................................6
   1.6 Transaction Documents ...................................................................6
   1.7 Dissenters'Rights .......................................................................6

ARTICLE II - REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE COMPANY AND THE PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS ......6
   2.1 Ownership of Stock ......................................................................7
   2.2 Existence and Good Standing .............................................................7
   2.3 Capital Stock ...........................................................................7
   2.4 Power and Authority .....................................................................7
   2.5 Subsidiaries and Investments ............................................................8
   2.6 Financial Statements; No Material Changes ...............................................8
   2.7 Books and Records .......................................................................9
   2.8 Title to Properties; Encumbrances ......................................................10
   2.9 Tangible Assets ........................................................................10
   2.10 Real Property .........................................................................10
   2.11 Leases ................................................................................10
   2.12 Contracts .............................................................................10
   2.13 Government Contracts ..................................................................11
   2.14 No Conflicts; Restrictive Documents; Consents .........................................14
   2.15 Litigation ............................................................................14
   2.16 Taxes .................................................................................14
   2.17 Independent Contractor Status .........................................................15
   2.18 Liabilities; Indebtedness .............................................................15
   2.19 Insurance .............................................................................16
   2.20 Intellectual Property .................................................................16
   2.21 Licenses ..............................................................................18
   2.22 Compliance with Laws ..................................................................19
   2.23 Accounts Receivable ...................................................................19
   2.24 Employee Relations ....................................................................19
   2.25 Employee Benefit Plans ................................................................19
   2.26 Environmental Matters .................................................................20
   2.27 Interests in Clients, Suppliers, Etc ..................................................22
   2.28 Bank Accounts, Powers of Attorney .....................................................22
   2.29 No Changes Since Balance Sheet Date ...................................................22
   2.30 Disclosure ............................................................................22
   2.31 Broker's or Finder's Fees .............................................................23
   2.32 Copies of Documents ...................................................................23
   2.33 Matters Affecting Employees ...........................................................23
   2.34 Pooling ...............................................................................23
   2.35 Affiliate Letters .....................................................................23
   2.36 Investment ............................................................................23

</TABLE>
                                        i
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                            <C>
ARTICLE III - REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE PURCHASER AND MERGER SUB ..................24
   3.1 Existence and Good Standing ............................................................24
   3.2 Capital Stock ..........................................................................24
   3.3 Purchaser Shares .......................................................................24
   3.4 Power and Authority ....................................................................25
   3.5 No Conflicts; Restrictive Documents; Consents ..........................................25
   3.6 SEC Reports ............................................................................25
   3.7 Broker's or Finder's Fees ..............................................................26
   3.8 Litigation .............................................................................26
   3.9 No Prior Activities ....................................................................26

ARTICLE IV - CONDUCT OF BUSINESS; EXCLUSIVE DEALING; REVIEW ...................................26
   4.1 Conduct of Business of the Company .....................................................26
   4.2 Exclusive Dealing; Voting ..............................................................27
   4.3 Review of the Company ..................................................................28
   4.4 Best Efforts ...........................................................................28

ARTICLE V - CONDITIONS TO THE PURCHASER'S AND MERGER SUB'S OBLIGATIONS ........................28
   5.1 Truth of Representations and Warranties ................................................29
   5.2 Good Standing and Other Certificates ...................................................29
   5.3 Performance of Agreements ..............................................................29
   5.4 No Litigation ..........................................................................29
   5.5 Pooling Letter .........................................................................29
   5.6 Affiliate Letters ......................................................................29
   5.7 Pooling Opinion ........................................................................29
   5.8 Opinion of the Company's Counsel .......................................................30
   5.9 No Material Adverse Change .............................................................30
   5.10 Governmental and Other Approvals and Consents .........................................30
   5.11 State Securities Permit ...............................................................30
   5.12 Employment and Consulting Agreements ..................................................30
   5.13 Certain Agreements ....................................................................30
   5.14 Escrow Agreement ......................................................................30
   5.15 Shareholder Approval ..................................................................31
   5.16 Dissenters ............................................................................31
   5.17 Plan of Merger ........................................................................31
   5.18 Terms of Option Agreements and Restricted Shares ......................................31
   5.19 Tax Matters ...........................................................................31
   5.20 Resignations ..........................................................................31
   5.21 Intra-Company  Debt ...................................................................31
   5.22 Current Employees .....................................................................31
   5.23 Release of Security Interests .........................................................32
   5.24 Holders of Unexercised Options ........................................................32
   5.25 Restricted Shares .....................................................................32

ARTICLE VI - CONDITIONS TO THE COMPANY'S OBLIGATIONS ..........................................32
   6.1 Truth of Representations and Warranties ................................................32
   6.2 Good Standing and Other Certificates ...................................................32
   6.3 Performance of Agreements ..............................................................33
   6.4 Opinion of Purchaser's Counsel .........................................................33
   6.5 State Securities Permit ................................................................33
   6.6 Governmental and Other Approvals and Consents ..........................................33
</TABLE>

                                       ii
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                                            <C>
   6.7 Shareholder Approval ...................................................................33
   6.8 Plan of Merger .........................................................................34
   6.9 Tax Opinion ............................................................................34
   6.10 Bank Loan .............................................................................34

ARTICLE VII - CERTAIN COVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES .................................34
   7.1 Non-Competition; Non-Interference ......................................................34
   7.2 Fairness Hearing Application ...........................................................36
   7.3 Pooling Restrictions and Related Matters ...............................................36
   7.4 Compliance with Employment and Consulting Agreements ...................................37
   7.5 Supplemental Disclosure ................................................................37
   7.6 Employees; Continued Operations ........................................................37
   7.7 Form S-8 ...............................................................................38
   7.8 Listing of Additional Shares ...........................................................38
   7.9 401(k) Plan ............................................................................38
   7.10 Dissenters ............................................................................38
   7.11 Shareholder Meeting; Shareholder Approval; Information Statement ......................38
   7.12 Director and Officer Indemnification ..................................................39

ARTICLE VIII - SURVIVAL OF REPRESENTATIONS; INDEMNITY; SET-OFF ................................39
   8.1 Survival of Representations ............................................................39
   8.2 Indemnification ........................................................................39

ARTICLE IX - TERMINATION ......................................................................41
   9.1 Termination ............................................................................41

ARTICLE X - MISCELLANEOUS .....................................................................42
   10.1 Definitions of Certain Terms ..........................................................42
   10.2 Expenses ..............................................................................44
   10.3 Remedies Not Exclusive ................................................................44
   10.4 Governing Law .........................................................................44
   10.5 Further Assurances ....................................................................44
   10.6 Captions ..............................................................................44
   10.7 Publicity .............................................................................44
   10.8 Notices ...............................................................................44
   10.9 Recovery of Litigation Costs ..........................................................46
   10.10 Parties in Interest ..................................................................46
   10.11 Counterparts .........................................................................46
   10.12 Entire Agreement .....................................................................46
   10.13 Construction of Certain Disclosures ..................................................47
   10.14 Amendments ...........................................................................47
   10.15 Severability .........................................................................47
   10.16 Third Party Beneficiaries ............................................................47
</TABLE>

                                       iii
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Schedules

<S>                             <C>
Schedule 2.1                    Shareholders
Schedule 2.3                    Company Capitalization
Schedule 2.5                    Subsidiaries and Investments
Schedule 2.6                    Financial Statements; Backlog
Schedule 2.8                    Encumbrances
Schedule 2.9                    Tangible Assets
Schedule 2.11                   Leases
Schedule 2.12                   Contracts
Schedule 2.13                   Government Contracts
Schedule 2.14                   Restrictive Documents and Consents
Schedule 2.16                   Taxes
Schedule 2.17                   Company Contractors
Schedule 2.18                   Indebtedness
Schedule 2.19                   Insurance
Schedule 2.20(b)                Registered Proprietary Assets
Schedule 2.20(c)                Other Proprietary Assets
Schedule 2.20(d)                Licensed Proprietary Assets
Schedule 2.20(e)                Encumbrances on Proprietary Assets
Schedule 2.20(f)                Joint Development of Proprietary Assets
Schedule 2.20(g)                Employees or Consultants Not Subject to Confidentiality Agreement
Schedule 2.20(i)                Infringement
Schedule 2.20(j)                Licenses or Other Limitations on Proprietary Assets
Schedule 2.20(k)                Certain Technology Matters
Schedule 2.21                   Licenses
Schedule 2.24                   Employees
Schedule 2.25                   Employee Benefit Plans
Schedule 2.26(b)                Environmental Matters
Schedule 2.26(g)                Storage Tanks
Schedule 2.27                   Interests in Clients, Suppliers, etc.
Schedule 2.28                   Bank Accounts, Powers of Attorney
Schedule 2.29                   No Material Changes
Schedule 2.35                   Rule 145 Affiliates
Schedule 4.1                    Conduct of Business
Schedule 5.13                   Certain Agreements
Schedule 5.22(a)                Employees
Schedule 5.22(b)                Other Employees
Schedule 7.6                    Post-Closing Conduct of Business
Schedule 8.2                    Indemnification Matters
</TABLE>

Exhibits

Exhibit A                  - Plan of Merger
Exhibit B                  - Escrow Agreement
Exhibit C-1, C-2 and C-3   - Nondisclosure and Confidentiality Agreement
Exhibit D                  - Affiliate  Letter
Exhibit E                  - Opinion  of  Company's  Counsel
Exhibit F                  - Consulting Agreement
Exhibit G-1, G-2, G-3, G-4 - Employment  Agreements
Exhibit H                  - Opinion of Purchaser's Counsel

                                       iv
<PAGE>
                                MERGER AGREEMENT

THIS MERGER AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made and dated as of April 10, 2000,
by and among CREE, INC., a North Carolina corporation (the "Purchaser"), CRYSTAL
ACQUISITION,  INC., a North Carolina corporation and wholly-owned  subsidiary of
the  Purchaser  ("Merger  Sub"),  NITRES,  INC., a California  corporation  (the
"Company"),  and those  shareholders  of the Company as listed on the  signature
page to this Agreement (the "Principal Shareholders"). Capitalized terms used in
this  Agreement  and not  otherwise  defined are defined in Section  10.1 below.
Except  as  otherwise  specifically  stated,  references  in this  Agreement  to
schedules and exhibits are references to the documents attached as schedules and
exhibits to this Agreement, all of which form a part hereof.

                                   WITNESSETH:

     WHEREAS,  the  parties  to this  Agreement  desire  for  Merger Sub and the
Company to engage in, and the boards of directors of the  Purchaser,  Merger Sub
and the  Company  have  approved,  the  merger of  Merger  Sub with and into the
Company (the "Merger") upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in
this  Agreement  and in the related  Plan and  Agreement  of Merger  attached as
Exhibit A (the "Plan of Merger");

     WHEREAS,  the Principal  Shareholders are the owners of at least 95% of all
issued and outstanding  shares of capital stock of the Company and the owners of
at least a  majority  of the  issued  and  outstanding  shares of each  class of
capital stock of the Company, as set forth adjacent to their respective names on
Schedule 2.1; and

     WHEREAS,  the  parties  intend and desire  for the Merger to  constitute  a
"pooling  of  interests"  for  the   Purchaser's   accounting   purposes  and  a
reorganization  within  the  meaning  of  Section  368(a) of the Code for United
States federal income tax purposes;

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises,  covenants and agreements
set forth in this  Agreement and of other good and valuable  consideration,  the
receipt and legal sufficiency of which they hereby acknowledge, and intending to
be legally bound, the parties agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE I
                                   THE MERGER

     1.1  The Merger

          (a) Upon the  performance  of all  covenants and  obligations  and the
     fulfillment of all conditions to the  obligations of the parties  contained
     herein (other than such covenants, obligations and conditions as shall have
     been waived in accordance  with the terms hereof),  and in accordance  with
     the North Carolina Business Corporation Act, as amended (the "NCBCA"),  and
     the California  Corporations  Code, as amended (the "California  Code"), at
     the Effective Time (as defined in subsection  (b) below),  Merger Sub shall
     be merged with and into the Company in accordance  with the Plan of Merger;
     the separate  existence of Merger Sub shall cease; and the Company shall be
     the surviving  corporation  (sometimes referred to herein as the "Surviving
     Corporation") and shall continue its corporate  existence under the laws of
     the State of  California.  The name of the Surviving  Corporation  shall be
     "Cree Lighting Company."


<PAGE>
          (b) The Merger  shall be  effected by the filing of articles of merger
     with  the  Secretary  of State of North  Carolina  in  accordance  with the
     provisions  of Article 11 of the NCBCA and the filing of the Plan of Merger
     with the Secretary of State of California in accordance with the provisions
     of Section 1103 of the California  Code. The Merger shall become  effective
     at the time set forth in such articles of merger and Plan of Merger,  which
     shall be filed  contemporaneously  with the closing  conducted  pursuant to
     Section 1.5 below (the "Closing").  The time and date when the Merger shall
     become effective is referred to in this Agreement as the "Effective Time."

          (c) At the  Effective  Time,  by virtue of the Merger and  without any
     action on the part of the  holders  of shares  of common  stock,  $.001 par
     value per share,  or  preferred  stock,  $.001 par value per share,  of the
     Company   ("Company   Common   Stock"  and   "Company   Preferred   Stock",
     respectively,  and  collectively the "Company  Stock"),  and subject to the
     withholding into escrow described in Section 1.4 below:

               (i) Each issued and  outstanding  share of Company  Common  Stock
          (other than treasury shares and Dissenting  Shares (as defined below))
          shall be converted into the right to receive shares of Common Stock of
          the  Purchaser  ("Purchaser  Common  Stock")  such that each holder of
          shares of Company Common Stock shall be entitled to receive the number
          of shares of Purchaser Common Stock (less any fractional share,  which
          shall be  eliminated)  determined  by  multiplying  (A) the  number of
          shares of Company  Common Stock set forth  opposite his or her name on
          Schedule 2.1 by (B) the Exchange Ratio (as defined below);

               (ii) Each issued and outstanding share of Company Preferred Stock
          (other than treasury shares and Dissenting  Shares) shall be converted
          into the right to  receive  the number of shares of  Purchaser  Common
          Stock  equal  to the sum of (A)  the  number  of  shares  obtained  by
          multiplying the number of shares of Company  Preferred Stock set forth
          opposite  his or her name on Schedule 2.1 by the  Preference  Exchange
          Ratio (as defined  below),  plus (B) the number of shares of Purchaser
          Common  Stock that the holder of such shares  would have  received had
          the Company  Preferred  Stock been converted into Company Common Stock
          immediately  prior to the Effective Time (less any  fractional  share,
          which shall be eliminated).

               (iii)  Each  outstanding  option to  purchase  shares of  Company
          Common  Stock  (a  "Stock   Option")  under  the  Company  1999  Stock
          Option/Stock  Issuance Plan (the "Company  Plan"),  whether  vested or
          unvested shall be assumed by Purchaser. Accordingly, each Stock Option
          shall be deemed to constitute an option to acquire,  on the same terms
          and conditions as were applicable under such Stock Option  immediately
          prior  to  the  Effective  Time  (including   without  limitation  any
          repurchase  rights),  the number of shares of  Purchaser  Common Stock
          determined by multiplying the number of shares of Company Common Stock
          that were purchasable immediately prior to the Effective Time upon the
          exercise  of  such  Stock  Option  by the  Exchange  Ratio  (less  any
          fractional  share,  which  shall be  eliminated)  at a price per share
          (rounded up to the nearest whole cent) equal to (A) the exercise price
          per share of Company Common Stock  immediately  prior to the Effective
          Time under  such  Stock  Option  divided  by (B) the  Exchange  Ratio;
          provided,  however,  that in the  case of any  Stock  Option  to which
          Section  422 of the Code  applies  ("incentive  stock  options"),  the
          option  price,  the  number of  shares  purchasable  pursuant  to such
          option,  and the terms and conditions of exercise of such option shall
          be determined  in order to comply with Section  424(a) of the Code. As
          soon as  practicable  after the Effective  Time,  the Purchaser  shall
          deliver to each

                                        2
<PAGE>
          holder of Stock Options a notice  confirming the foregoing  assumption
          and setting forth such holder's rights pursuant thereto, including the
          number of shares  of  Purchaser  Common  Stock  purchasable  under the
          assumed Stock Option and the corresponding exercise price thereunder;

               (iv)  Each  share of  Company  Common  Stock  (a)  acquired  by a
          Shareholder  on the exercise of Stock  Options  granted by the Company
          under the  Company  Plan or (b)  otherwise  issued by the Company to a
          Shareholder,  which  in each  case is  subject  to  repurchase  rights
          (collectively,  the "Repurchase Rights"), including without limitation
          Company  Common Stock issued  pursuant to the Company Plan or pursuant
          to certain  Common Stock  Issuance  Agreements or certain Common Stock
          Purchase  Agreements  between the  Company  and  certain  Shareholders
          (collectively,  the  "Restricted  Shares") shall be converted into the
          right to receive  shares of  Purchaser  Common  Stock as  described in
          Section 1.1(c)(i) above and the Repurchase Rights and any agreement or
          instrument  evidencing the Repurchase  Rights shall be deemed assigned
          by the  Company  to  Purchaser  and  shall be  deemed  assumed  by the
          Purchaser,  thereby  giving  the  Purchaser  all the  rights  that the
          Company  would  have had  under  the  terms of the  Repurchase  Rights
          including  the right to  repurchase  the shares upon the  happening of
          certain events.  As soon as practicable  after the Effective Time, the
          Purchaser  shall deliver to each holder of Restricted  Shares a notice
          confirming  the foregoing  assignment and assumption and setting forth
          such holder's rights pursuant thereto;

               (v) Each  outstanding  warrant  to  purchase  shares  of  Company
          Preferred Stock (a "Warrant")  shall be deemed to constitute a warrant
          to acquire,  on the same terms and conditions as were applicable under
          such Warrant  immediately  prior to the Effective  Time, the number of
          shares of Purchaser  Common Stock that would have been received by the
          holder  thereof had the warrant  been  exercised  to purchase  Company
          Preferred  Stock  immediately  prior to the  Effective  Time (less any
          fractional  share,  which  shall be  eliminated)  at a price per share
          (rounded up to the nearest whole cent) equal to (A) the exercise price
          per  share  of  Company  Preferred  Stock  immediately  prior  to  the
          Effective  Time  under  such  Warrant  multiplied  by a  fraction  the
          numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Company  Preferred
          Stock for which the  Warrant is  exercisable  and the  denominator  of
          which  shall be the  number of shares of  Purchaser  Common  Stock for
          which the Warrant is exercisable  after the Effective Time. As soon as
          practicable  after the Effective  Time, the Purchaser shall deliver to
          each holder of a Warrant a notice confirming the foregoing and setting
          forth such holder's rights pursuant  thereto,  including the number of
          shares of Purchaser Common Stock purchasable under the Warrant and the
          corresponding exercise price thereunder; and

               (vi) Each share of Company Stock that is owned by the Company, if
          any, shall  automatically  be cancelled and retired and shall cease to
          exist,  and no  Purchaser  Common Stock shall be delivered in exchange
          therefor.

          (d) For purposes of this Article I:

               (i)  "Average  Share Price" shall mean the average of the closing
          price of Purchaser  Common Stock over the 30-day  period  ending three
          (3) days prior to the Closing,  taking into account any stock  splits,
          stock dividends or similar recapitalization.

               (ii)   "Company   Capitalization"   shall   mean  the   Company's
          fully-diluted  capitalization  immediately prior to the Effective Time
          (treating all then-outstanding Stock Acquisition Rights for securities
          of the Company as fully exercised or converted into shares of

                                        3
<PAGE>
          Company Common Stock),  comprised of 2,362,194 shares of Company Stock
          on the date hereof, as set forth on Schedule 2.3.

               (iii)  "Exchange  Ratio"  shall mean the number  (rounded to five
          decimal places) determined by dividing (A) 2,000,000 (the total number
          of  Purchaser  shares) less the  Preference  Shares by (B) the Company
          Capitalization.  In the event that between the date of this  Agreement
          and the Closing Date, the Purchaser  shall change the number of shares
          of Purchaser  Common Stock that are issued and outstanding as a result
          of any stock split,  stock dividend or similar  recapitalization,  the
          figures and  calculations  used to determine  the Exchange  Ratio each
          shall be  proportionately  adjusted  correspondingly.  Subject  to the
          foregoing sentence, the Purchaser shall have no obligation to issue in
          excess of 2,000,000  shares of Purchaser Common Stock pursuant to this
          Agreement.

               (iv) "Preference  Exchange Ratio" shall mean $1.48 divided by the
          Average Share Price.

               (v)  "Preference  Shares"  shall  mean  that  number of shares of
          Purchaser  Common  Stock  equal to the sum of (A) the total  number of
          shares of Company Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the
          Effective Time and (B) the total number of shares of Company Preferred
          Stock that would have been  outstanding  had all of the Warrants  been
          exercised  immediately prior to the Effective Time,  multiplied by the
          Preference Exchange Ratio.

          (e) Capital Stock of Merger Sub. At the  Effective  Time, by virtue of
     the  Merger and  without  any action on the part of the holder of shares of
     common stock,  $.01 par value per share,  of Merger Sub ("Merger Sub Common
     Stock"),  each  share of Merger  Sub Common  Stock  issued and  outstanding
     immediately  prior  to the  Effective  Date  shall  be  converted  into and
     exchanged for one validly  issued,  fully paid and  nonassessable  share of
     common stock, par value $.001 per share of the Surviving Corporation.  Each
     stock  certificate  of Merger Sub  evidencing  ownership of any such shares
     shall continue to evidence ownership of such shares of capital stock of the
     Surviving Corporation.

     1.2  Exchange Procedures.

          (a)  Purchaser  hereby  designates  its  transfer  agent to act as the
     Exchange  Agent  hereunder  (the  "Exchange  Agent").  Promptly  after  the
     Effective  Time,  Purchaser  shall make available to the Exchange Agent for
     exchange  in  accordance  with this  Article  I,  through  such  reasonable
     procedures as the Purchaser and the Exchange Agent may adopt,  certificates
     evidencing  the shares of  Purchaser  Common  Stock  issuable  pursuant  to
     Section  1.1(c)(i)  and (ii)  above in  exchange  for the shares of Company
     Stock  outstanding  immediately prior to the Effective Time less the number
     of shares of Purchaser  Common  Stock to be deposited  into the Escrow Fund
     (defined  below)  pursuant to Section 1.4 below.  Upon surrender of a stock
     certificate  representing  shares of Company  Stock (a  "Certificate")  for
     cancellation  to the Exchange Agent in accordance  with the Purchaser's and
     Exchange  Agent's  procedures,  the  holder  of such  Certificate  shall be
     entitled  to  receive  in  exchange  therefor  (A)  the  number  of  shares
     represented  by  the  surrendered   Certificate,   multiplied  by  (B)  the
     applicable number of shares pursuant to Section 1.1(c).  The Certificate so
     surrendered shall forthwith be cancelled. Until surrendered as contemplated
     by this Section 1.2(a), each Certificate shall be deemed from and after the
     Effective  Time to represent  only the right to receive upon such surrender
     the merger consideration  described above for each share represented by the
     Certificate. In no

                                        4
<PAGE>
          event shall the holder of any such surrendered Certificate be entitled
     to  receive  interest  on  any  merger  consideration  to  be  received  in
     connection  with the Merger.  Neither the Exchange  Agent nor the Purchaser
     shall be liable to a holder of Company  Stock for any merger  consideration
     paid to a public official  pursuant to any applicable  abandoned  property,
     escheat or similar  law.  Any  payments  under  this  Section  1.2 shall be
     subject to applicable tax withholding requirements.

          (b) If any Certificate shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon
     the  making  of an  affidavit  of that  fact by the  person  claiming  such
     Certificate  to be lost,  stolen  or  destroyed  and,  if  required  by the
     Purchaser  or its transfer  agent,  the posting by such person of a bond or
     other  indemnification,  in such  reasonable  and  customary  amount as the
     Purchaser or its transfer agent may direct,  as indemnity against any claim
     that may be made against it with respect to such Certificate,  the Exchange
     Agent will issue in exchange for such lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate
     the merger consideration described above.

     1.3  Parties'  Intent.  The  parties  to  this  Agreement  intend  for  the
transactions   contemplated  by  this  Agreement  to  qualify  for  "pooling  of
interests"   treatment  for  the  Purchaser's   accounting  purposes  and  as  a
reorganization  within  the  meaning  of  Section  368(a) of the Code for United
States federal income tax purposes.

     1.4  Issuances into Escrow.

          (a) When  making the  issuances  required  by Section  1.1 above,  and
     notwithstanding  any  provision  in this  Agreement  to the  contrary,  the
     Purchaser  shall  withhold  from  the  shareholders  of  the  Company  (the
     "Shareholders")  (on  a  pro  rata  basis  according  to  their  respective
     interests  therein)  and  deliver  to the Escrow  Agent (as  defined in the
     Escrow  Agreement  referred  to below) ten percent  (10%) of the  aggregate
     number of shares of  Purchaser  Common Stock  issuable  pursuant to Section
     1.1(c)(i) and (ii) above (the "Escrow Fund"), to be held and distributed by
     the Escrow  Agent  pursuant to the terms of this  Agreement  and the Escrow
     Agreement attached as Exhibit B (the "Escrow  Agreement").  All such shares
     shall be issued in the name of the Escrow Agent,  as escrow agent under the
     Escrow Agreement.

          (b)  Fred  A.  Blum  shall,  by  virtue  of the  Merger  and as of the
     Effective Time, be irrevocably appointed attorney-in-fact and authorized to
     act for and on behalf of any or all of the Shareholders (with full power of
     substitution  in the  premises)  with  respect  to all  matters  arising in
     connection  with the Escrow  Agreement,  including  without  limitation the
     power and authority on behalf of each  Shareholder to do or take any one or
     more of the actions  enumerated  in Section 1.4  thereof  (the  above-named
     representative, or any subsequent representative appointed under the Escrow
     Agreement,  the  "Representative").  Such  appointment  may be  changed  as
     provided  in the Escrow  Agreement.  Each of the  Purchaser  and Merger Sub
     shall be entitled to rely on such appointment and treat the  Representative
     as the duly appointed  attorney-in-fact  of each  Shareholder  for all such
     purposes.  Each Shareholder by receiving merger consideration  acknowledges
     and  agrees  that such  appointment  is  irrevocable  and  coupled  with an
     interest.

          (c) The Representative shall not be liable for any act done or omitted
     hereunder as Representative  while acting in good faith and in the exercise
     of reasonable judgment,  and any act done or omitted pursuant to the advice
     of  counsel  shall  be  conclusive   evidence  of  such  good  faith.  Each
     Shareholder shall jointly and severally indemnify the

                                        5
<PAGE>
     Representative and hold him harmless against any loss, liability or expense
     incurred  without  gross  negligence  or  bad  faith  on  the  part  of the
     Representative  and arising out of or in connection  with the acceptance or
     administration of his duties hereunder.

     1.5  Closing.  Consummation  of  the  Merger  and  the  other  transactions
contemplated by this Agreement (the  "Closing")  shall take place at the offices
of Smith, Anderson,  Blount, Dorsett,  Mitchell & Jernigan, L.L.P. on the second
business day after all of the  conditions  set forth in Article V and Article VI
shall  have been  satisfied  or  waived,  or at such  other time and date as the
Purchaser  and the Company shall  designate in writing (such  specified or other
time and date, the "Closing Date").

    1.6  Transaction Documents. As used in this Agreement, the term "Transaction
Documents" shall mean,  collectively,  this Agreement, the Escrow Agreement, the
Employment  and  Consulting  Agreements  (as defined in Section  5.12),  and all
agreements, instruments,  certificates and other documents executed or delivered
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or any Transaction Document.

     1.7 Dissenters' Rights. Any shares of Company Stock which immediately prior
to the Effective Time are held by shareholders  who have properly  exercised and
perfected,  and  have not  withdrawn  or  otherwise  forfeited,  dissenters'  or
appraisal  rights  in  accordance  with  California  Code  Section  1300 et seq.
("Dissenting Shares") shall not be converted into the right to receive shares of
Purchaser  Common Stock at the Effective Time as provided in Sections  1.1(c)(i)
or (ii) above;  rather,  the holders of  Dissenting  Shares shall be entitled to
receive  consideration  determined  pursuant to California  Code Section 1300 et
seq.; provided, however, that if any such holder shall have failed to perfect or
shall withdraw or lose such holder's dissenter's rights, such holder's shares of
Company Stock thereupon shall be deemed to have been converted into the right to
receive  shares of Purchaser  Common Stock as provided in Sections  1.1(c)(i) or
(ii) above  (subject to the  withholding  into escrow  described  in Section 1.4
above),  and such shares shall no longer be Dissenting  Shares.  Company  agrees
that,  except with the prior written consent of Purchaser,  or as required under
the  California  Code,  the Company will not  voluntarily  make any payment with
respect  to, or settle or offer to settle,  any  purchase  demand by a holder of
Dissenting  Shares.  Each holder of  Dissenting  Shares who becomes  entitled to
payment for such shares  pursuant to California  Code Section 1300 et seq. shall
receive payment  therefor from the Surviving  Corporation from funds provided by
Purchaser (but only after the amount of the payment required therefor shall have
been agreed upon or finally determined pursuant to the California Code).


                                   ARTICLE II
                  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE COMPANY
                         AND THE PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS

     The Company (and not any Principal Shareholders) represents and warrants to
the  Purchaser and Merger Sub and agrees as set forth in this Article II, except
that each Principal  Shareholder  (and not the Company)  represents and warrants
severally,  and not jointly and  severally,  to the Purchaser and Merger Sub and
agrees as set forth in Sections 2.1(b), 2.4(b), and 2.36 as follows:

                                        6
<PAGE>
     2.1  Ownership of Stock.

          (a) Each  Shareholder  is the record  owner of the number of shares of
     Company Stock listed  opposite his or her name in Schedule 2.1,  which are,
     to the Company's knowledge, free and clear of all Encumbrances.

          (b) Each  Principal  Shareholder  is the lawful owner of the number of
     shares of the Company Stock listed  opposite of his or her name in Schedule
     2.1, free and clear of all Encumbrances.

     2.2  Existence  and  Good  Standing.  The  Company  is a  corporation  duly
organized,  validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of
California.  The Company has the power to own its properties and to carry on its
business as now being conducted.  The Company is not required to be qualified to
do business in any other jurisdictions under applicable Law.

     2.3 Capital Stock. The Company has an authorized  capitalization consisting
of the number and types of shares of capital  stock set forth in  Schedule  2.3,
with the par value  per  share  stated  therein.  The  Company  has  issued  and
outstanding  the  number  and  types of  shares  of  capital  stock set forth in
Schedule  2.3; no other shares of capital stock are issued or  outstanding;  and
there are no outstanding Stock Acquisition Rights for securities of the Company,
other than as  contemplated  by this  Agreement or set forth in Schedule 2.3. In
the case of Stock  Options and  Restricted  Shares,  Schedule 2.3 sets forth the
number of vested shares as of the date of this Agreement.  Set forth on Schedule
2.3 are the  following for each holder of capital stock and Stock Options of the
Company: (i) in the case of capital stock, whether such stock constitutes or has
constituted Restricted Shares at any time; (ii) in the case of Restricted Shares
or Stock Options,  the date of issuance or grant, the vesting commencement date,
the  date of  exercise  or  purchase,  and a brief  description  of the  vesting
provisions.  Except as set forth on Schedule  2.3, the Merger will not cause the
acceleration  of vesting of any Stock  Options or any  Restricted  Shares or the
termination or lapse of any Repurchase Rights. All of the issued and outstanding
shares of capital  stock of the Company  have been duly  authorized  and validly
issued,  are fully paid and  non-assessable,  were issued in accordance with the
registration or qualification  provisions of the Securities Act and any relevant
state  securities laws or pursuant to valid  exemptions  therefrom,  and none of
such shares have been issued in violation of the  preemptive  rights,  rights of
first refusal or other similar rights of any  Shareholder.  With respect to each
Person that received at any time  Restricted  Shares,  the Company  delivered to
such Person at or prior to the time of receipt by such Person of such Restricted
Shares a memorandum or other instrument  accurately  describing the consequences
of the failure by such Person to file timely an election  under Section 83(b) of
the Code. The requisite  shareholders of the Company have executed and delivered
to the Company proper  instruments such that the acceleration of the vesting (or
lapse of certain  repurchase  rights)  under the Stock  Options  and  Restricted
Shares do not  constitute  excess  parachute  payments under Section 280G of the
Code.

     2.4 Power and Authority.

          (a) The Company has all  requisite  power and  authority to enter into
     and deliver this Agreement and the other Transaction  Documents to which it
     is a party,  to perform its  obligations  hereunder and  thereunder  and to
     consummate the transactions  contemplated hereby and thereby. The Company's
     execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement

                                        7
<PAGE>
     and the other Transaction  Documents and the Company's  consummation of the
     transactions  contemplated  hereby and  thereby  have been duly and validly
     authorized  by all  corporate  action  required  by  applicable  Law or the
     Company's  Organizational  Documents,  other than  shareholder  approval as
     contemplated  by this Agreement.  This Agreement and the other  Transaction
     Documents to which the Company is a party  constitute the valid and legally
     binding  obligations  of the  Company,  enforceable  against the Company in
     accordance  with  their  respective  terms,  except as  enforcement  may be
     limited by general equitable  principles (whether raised in a proceeding at
     law or in equity), or by applicable bankruptcy,  insolvency,  moratorium or
     similar laws of general  application  relating to or  affecting  creditors'
     rights (including without limitation, the effect of statutory or other laws
     regarding fraudulent conveyances or transfers and preferential  transfers).
     As  of  the  Closing  Date,  the  Company  shall  have  complied  with  the
     requirements  of  the  California  Code  relating  to  dissenters'   rights
     applicable to the Merger or the other transactions contemplated hereby.

          (b) Each  Principal  Shareholder  has the full legal right,  power and
     authority  to  enter  into  and  deliver  this   Agreement  and  the  other
     Transaction  Documents  to which  such  Principal  Shareholder  is a party,
     perform such Principal  Shareholder's  obligations hereunder and thereunder
     and  consummate  the  transactions  contemplated  hereby and thereby.  Each
     Principal  Shareholder's  execution,   delivery  and  performance  of  this
     Agreement  and  the  other   Transaction   Documents  and  such   Principal
     Shareholder's  consummation  of the  transactions  contemplated  hereby and
     thereby  have been duly and validly  authorized  by all action  required of
     such  Principal  Shareholder  by  applicable  Law and, if  applicable,  its
     Organizational   Documents.   This  Agreement  and  the  other  Transaction
     Documents to which each  Principal  Shareholder  is a party  constitute the
     valid  and  legally  binding  obligations  of such  Principal  Shareholder,
     enforceable  against such Principal  Shareholder  in accordance  with their
     respective terms, except as enforcement may be limited by general equitable
     principles  (whether  raised in a  proceeding  at law or in equity),  or by
     applicable  bankruptcy,  insolvency,  moratorium or similar laws of general
     application  relating to or affecting  creditors' rights (including without
     limitation,  the effect of  statutory  or other laws  regarding  fraudulent
     conveyances or transfers and preferential transfers).

     2.5  Subsidiaries and Investments. Except as set forth in Schedule 2.5, the
Company does not own, directly or indirectly,  any capital stock or other equity
or  ownership  or  proprietary  interest in any Person and is not a party to any
joint venture or partnership Contract.

     2.6  Financial Statements; No Material Changes.

          (a) The Company has  furnished  the  Purchaser  with true and complete
     copies of the  unaudited  balance  sheet of the Company as of December  31,
     1999 (the "Balance Sheet") and the related statement of income for the year
     then ended (collectively,  the "Annual Financial Statements").  The Company
     also has  furnished  the  Purchaser  with true and  complete  copies of the
     unaudited  balance  sheet and  statement  of income for the Company for the
     one-month  period ending  January 31, 2000 and the one-month  period ending
     February 29, 2000,  each of which was prepared on a basis  consistent  with
     the corresponding  Annual Financial  Statements;  further, on or before the
     tenth day of each  calendar  month  after the date of this  Agreement,  the
     Company  will  use its  best  efforts  to  provide  the  Purchaser  with an
     unaudited  balance  sheet and  statement of income for the Company for each
     such calendar month,  each of which will be prepared on a basis  consistent
     with the corresponding  Annual Financial Statements (the "Interim Financial
     Statements,"  and  together  with  the  Annual  Financial  Statements,  the
     "Financial Statements"). The Financials Statements have been

                                        8
<PAGE>
     prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
     consistently  applied  throughout  the periods  indicated  (except that the
     Financial Statements do not contain footnotes),  and are correct, complete,
     and consistent  with the Company's books and records (which are correct and
     complete),  except that the  Interim  Financial  Statements  are subject to
     normal, recurring adjustments (which will not be material,  individually or
     in the aggregate).  The balance sheets  furnished  pursuant to this Section
     2.6 fairly present the financial condition of the Company at the respective
     dates thereof,  and reflect all claims against and debts and liabilities of
     the  Company,  fixed or  contingent,  as at the  respective  dates  thereof
     (including the Company management's  reasonable estimate in accordance with
     GAAP  of any  unliquidated  liability  required  by  GAAP  to be  reflected
     thereon);  and the related statements of income,  shareholders'  equity and
     cash flows fairly  present the results of the operations of the Company and
     the changes in financial position for the periods  indicated.  There are no
     transactions  between  the Company and any  Shareholder  (or any  affiliate
     thereof) which are not reflected in the Financial Statements or on Schedule
     2.6 or Schedule 2.12.

          (b) Since December 31, 1999 (the "Balance Sheet Date"), there has been
     no event, fact, condition,  circumstance or other development which has had
     or may have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on
     the Company, whether as a result of any Casualty, termination or impairment
     of any material Contract or business relationship, the enactment of any new
     Law,  or  otherwise;  nor is the  Company  aware of any such  event,  fact,
     condition,  circumstance or other development which is reasonably likely to
     occur in the foreseeable future.

          (c) Schedule 2.6 sets forth a true and correct  report  describing the
     Company's  backlog  (calculated  based on fee  payments  anticipated  to be
     received under letters of intent and legally binding written agreements for
     the provision of services to third parties) ("Backlog").  The Backlog as of
     February 29, 2000 was at least  $4,430,000,  of which at least  $646,000 is
     attributable to the fiscal year ending December 31, 2000.

          (d)  Without   limiting  the  foregoing,   and  for  purposes  of  the
     Purchaser's  evaluation  whether  the  Purchaser  is  required  to  file  a
     notification  under the  Hart-Scott-Rodino  Antitrust  Improvements  Act of
     1976,  as  amended  (together  with all rules and  regulations  promulgated
     thereunder,   the  "HSR  Act"),   (i)  the  Company  is  not   "engaged  in
     manufacturing"  (as defined in the HSR Act);  (ii) the total  assets of the
     Company  and any Person  controlled  by the  Company,  taken  together  and
     calculated on the basis required by the HSR Act, are less than $10 million;
     (iii) the annual net sales of the Company and any person  controlled by the
     Company,  taken  together and  calculated on the basis  required by the HSR
     Act,  are less than $100  million;  and (iv) the  Company  does not have an
     "ultimate parent entity" (as defined in the HSR Act).

     2.7 Books and Records.  The minute books of the Company, as previously made
available to the Purchaser and its representatives,  contain accurate records of
all  meetings of and action  taken by the  shareholders  and board of  directors
(including  committees  thereof)  of the  Company.  The  Company has none of its
records, systems,  controls, data or information recorded,  stored,  maintained,
operated  or  otherwise  wholly  or partly  dependent  upon or held by any means
(including  any  electronic,   mechanical  or  photographic   process,   whether
computerized or not) which (including all means of access thereto and therefrom)
are not under the exclusive ownership and direct control of the Company.

                                        9
<PAGE>
     2.8 Title to Properties;  Encumbrances. Except as set forth in Schedule 2.8
and except for properties and assets  reflected in the Balance Sheet or acquired
since the  Balance  Sheet  Date  which in each case have been sold or  otherwise
disposed of in the ordinary course of business,  the Company has good, valid and
marketable  title to (a) all of its  properties  and assets (real and  personal,
tangible and intangible), including without limitation all of the properties and
assets  reflected in the Balance Sheet, and (b) all of the properties and assets
purchased by the Company  since the Balance  Sheet Date; in each case subject to
no Encumbrance, except for Permitted Encumbrances.

     2.9 Tangible Assets. Schedule 2.9 contains an accurate and complete list of
all tangible  assets of the Company,  whether owned or leased (as so indicated),
having a value  (individually  or in the  aggregate  with other  like  items) in
excess of $25,000,  and not  including  any  materials or similar items having a
useful life of less than one year.  The tangible  assets  listed in Schedule 2.9
are in a state of good maintenance and repair, are adequate and suitable for the
purposes for which they are  currently  being used,  and  constitute  all of the
tangible  assets  (having  such  value)  used in or  necessary  to  conduct  the
Company's business as currently conducted.

     2.10 Real  Property.  Except as described in Section 2.11 as to leased real
property,  the Company does not currently own, and has not at any time owned, in
whole or in part, any interest (direct or indirect) in any real property.

     2.11 Leases.  Schedule  2.11  contains an accurate  and  complete  list and
summary of the terms of each lease to which the Company is a party (as lessee or
lessor).  Each lease set forth in Schedule  2.11 (or required to be set forth in
Schedule 2.11) is in full force and effect;  all rents and additional  rents due
to date on each such lease have been paid; in each case,  the lessee has been in
peaceable  possession  since the commencement of the original term of such lease
and is not in default thereunder,  and no waiver,  indulgence or postponement of
the lessee's  obligations  thereunder has been granted by the lessor;  and there
exists no event of default or event, occurrence, condition or act (including the
transactions  contemplated by this Agreement)  which, with the giving of notice,
the lapse of time or the  happening  of any further  event or  condition,  would
become a default  under  such  lease.  To the  Company's  knowledge,  all of the
covenants  to be  performed  by any other  party  under any such lease have been
fully  performed.  The  property  leased  by the  Company  is in a state of good
maintenance  and repair and is adequate  and suitable for the purposes for which
it is presently being used.

     2.12  Contracts.  Except as set forth in Schedule 2.12, the Company neither
has nor is bound by (a) any Contract  relating to the performance by the Company
of services  for or on behalf of any person or entity  requiring  the Company to
provide more than $25,000 in such services,  or is not terminable by the Company
without  penalty within 30 days, (b) any Contract  relating to the engagement as
an  independent  contractor or  employment of any person by the Company,  or any
bonus, deferred compensation,  pension,  profit sharing, stock option,  employee
stock award or purchase,  retirement or other  employee  benefit  plan,  (c) any
Contract which contains restrictions with respect to the payment of dividends or
other  distributions  by the  Company,  (d) any  Contract  relating  to  capital
expenditures  exceeding  $25,000  individually  or in  the  aggregate,  and  not
terminable  by the  Company  without  penalty  within  30 days,  (e) any loan or
advance to, or investment in, any Person or any Contract  relating to the making
of any such loan,  advance or investment,  (f) any guarantee or other contingent
liability in respect of any indebtedness or obligation of any Person (other than
the endorsement of negotiable  instruments for collection in the ordinary course
of business), (g) any management service,

                                       10
<PAGE>
consulting or any other  similar type  Contract,  (h) any Contract  limiting the
freedom of the Company to engage in any line of business in any geographic area,
or to compete with any Person,  (i) any other Contract which involves $25,000 or
more that is not immediately  terminable by the Company without penalty,  or (j)
any  Contract  which might  reasonably  be expected to have a potential  adverse
impact on the business or operations of the Company.  Each Contract set forth in
Schedule  2.12 (or  required to be set forth in Schedule  2.12) is in full force
and effect and constitutes a valid and legally binding  obligation of each party
thereto, enforceable thereagainst in accordance with its terms; and there exists
no, and the Company has not received any notice or other communication asserting
the actual or alleged  existence  of any,  default or event of default or event,
occurrence,  condition or act (including the  consummation  of the  transactions
contemplated by this Agreement) which,  with the giving of notice,  the lapse of
time or the occurrence of any other event or condition would become a default or
event of default  thereunder.  The Company has not  violated any of the terms or
conditions of any Contract which would at any time since the Company's inception
have been required to be set forth in a schedule listing the types of agreements
and instruments set forth in Schedule 2.12 in any material respect.  The Company
is in good relations with each other party thereto,  and all of the covenants to
be performed by any other party thereto have been fully  performed.  The Company
is in good relations with and has not experienced,  and does not anticipate, any
dispute  with any  supplier,  vendor,  contractor,  or  customer  with which the
Company has conducted  business  during the one year period ending with the date
of this Agreement.

     2.13 Government Contracts.

          (a)  Capitalized  terms  used  in  this  Section  2.13  which  are not
     otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the respective  meanings set
     forth below:

          "Affiliate" means with respect to a specified person,  any subsidiary,
     joint venture or  partnership  controlled  by the specified  person and any
     predecessors to the foregoing which had a Government  Contract  (during the
     period when the predecessor was under the control of the specified  person)
     which remains subject to possible government audit.

          "Bid" means any bid, proposal or quotation made by the Company,  or by
     a contractor  team or joint venture in which the Company is  participating,
     that,  if  accepted,  would  lead  to  a  Government  Prime  Contract  or a
     Government Subcontract.

          "Government Contract" means any Government Prime Contract,  Government
     Subcontract, Bid or Teaming Agreement.

          "Government  Prime Contract" means any prime contract,  basic ordering
     agreement,   letter  contract,  purchase  order,  delivery  order,  change,
     arrangement or other commitment of any kind, on which final payment has not
     been made,  between the Company and either the U.S.  Government  or a State
     Government.

          "Government   Subcontract"  means  any  subcontract,   basic  ordering
     agreement,  letter  subcontract,  purchase order,  delivery order,  change,
     arrangement or other commitment of any kind, on which final payment has not
     been made,  between the Company and any prime contractor to either the U.S.
     Government  or a State  Government or any  subcontractor  with respect to a
     Government Prime Contract.

                                       11
<PAGE>
          "State  Government"  means any state,  territory or  possession of the
     United  States  or any  department  or  agency  of any  of the  above  with
     statewide jurisdiction and responsibility.

          "Teaming Agreement" has the same meaning as the term, "Contractor team
     arrangement," as defined in Federal Acquisition Regulation ("FAR") 9.601.

          "U.S.   Government"   means  the  United  States   Government  or  any
     department, agency or instrumentality thereof.

          (b) A list of each and every Government  Contract to which the Company
     or any of its  subsidiaries  is a  party  is set  forth  in  Schedule  2.13
     attached hereto. Except as set forth in Schedule 2.13:

               (i) To the best of the Company's  knowledge and except for normal
          disallowances  and  exceptions  raised in past or future  DCAA or DCMC
          audits that would not be  material in amount (or exceed the  Company's
          reserves therefor),  the Company has fully complied with all terms and
          conditions  of  such  Government  Contract,   including  all  clauses,
          provisions and requirements  incorporated expressly by reference or by
          operation of law therein;

               (ii) The Company has fully complied with all  requirements of any
          statute,  rule,  regulation,  order or  agreement  pertaining  to such
          Government Contract;

               (iii)   All   representations   and   certifications    executed,
          acknowledged  or set forth by the  Company  in or  pertaining  to such
          Government  Contract were  current,  accurate and complete as of their
          effective  date,  and the  Company  has fully  complied  with all such
          representations and certifications;

               (iv) Neither the U.S.  Government,  any State  Government nor any
          prime  contractor,  subcontractor  or other  person has  notified  the
          Company in  writing  or  orally,  that the  Company  has  breached  or
          violated  any  Government   Contract,   statute,   rule,   regulation,
          certification,   representation,  clause,  provision,  requirement  or
          implied duty;

               (v) No termination for convenience, termination for default, cure
          notice,  show cause  notice,  or notice of breach of contract has been
          issued under or in connection with any Government Contract;

               (vi) No cost incurred by the Company under or in connection  with
          any Government Contract has been questioned or disallowed in writing;

               (vii) No money due to the Company under or in connection with any
          Government  Contract has been (or has attempted to be) withheld or set
          off;

               (viii) All amounts  previously  charged or at present  carried as
          chargeable by the Company to any Government Contract with an agency or
          instrumentality  of the U.S.  Government or any State  Government have
          been or will be  reasonable,  allowable  and  allocable  to each  such
          Government Contract, net of any applicable reserves established by the
          Company;

               (ix) No  notice  has  been  given of a cost  accounting  standard
          non-compliance  under or in connection  with any Government  Contract;
          and


                                       12
<PAGE>
               (x) The  Company's  business  as  currently  conducted  is in all
          respects  adequate  and  suitable  for  the  performance  of  existing
          Government Contracts.

          (c) Investigations and Audits. Except as set forth in Schedule 2.13:

               (i) None of the Company,  the Company's Affiliates nor any of the
          Company's directors, officers, employees, agents or consultants is (or
          for the last five (5) years has been) under  administrative,  civil or
          criminal investigation,  indictment or information,  audit or internal
          investigation with respect to any alleged  irregularity,  misstatement
          or omission arising under or relating to any Government Contract;

               (ii) Neither the Company nor any of the Company's  Affiliates has
          made a  voluntary  disclosure  to the  U.S.  Government  or any  State
          Government with respect to any alleged  irregularity,  misstatement or
          omission arising under or relating to a Government Contract;

               (iii)  The  Company  has  no  knowledge   of  any   irregularity,
          misstatement  or omission  arising under or relating to any Government
          Contract  that has led or  could  lead,  either  before  or after  the
          Closing  Date,  to any of the  consequences  set forth in (i) and (ii)
          above or any other damage,  penalty assessment,  recoupment of payment
          or disallowance of cost in excess of the reserves therefor established
          by the Company; and

               (iv) The  Company  has no reason to  believe  that any  employee,
          agent,  consultant,  representative  or Affiliate of the Company is in
          receipt or possession of any  competitor or government  proprietary or
          procurement  sensitive  information under circumstances where there is
          reason to believe  that such  receipt or  possession  is  unlawful  or
          unauthorized.

          (d) Financing  Arrangements and Claims Except as set forth in Schedule
     2.13, there exist:

               (i)  No  receivables  financing   arrangements  with  respect  to
          performance of any Government Contract;

               (ii) No notice of any  outstanding  claims  against the  Company,
          either by the U.S.  Government,  any State  Government or by any prime
          contractor,  subcontractor, vendor or other third party, arising under
          or relating to any Government Contract, which has been received by the
          Company;

               (iii) No facts  that are known by the  Company  upon which such a
          claim may be based in the  future  arising  under or  relating  to any
          Government Contract;

               (iv) No disputes between the Company and the U.S. Government, any
          State  Government  or any prime  contractor,  subcontractor  or vendor
          arising under or relating to any Government Contract; and

               (v) No facts  that are known by the  Company  over  which  such a
          dispute may arise in the future.

     The Company has no interest in any pending or potential  claim  against the
     U.S.   Government,   any  State   Government   or  any  prime   contractor,
     subcontractor  or  vendor  arising  under  or  relating  to any  Government
     Contract.

                                       13
<PAGE>

          (e) No  Suspension  or  Debarment.  Neither  the  Company,  nor to the
     Company's knowledge,  any of its directors,  officers of employees, nor any
     of the  Company's  Affiliates  is (or for the last five (5) years has been)
     suspended or debarred from doing  business with the U.S.  Government or any
     State  Government,  or has been declared  nonresponsible  or ineligible for
     U.S.  Government or State Government  contracting.  The Company knows of no
     circumstances that would warrant the institution of suspension or debarment
     proceedings or the finding of  nonresponsibility  or  ineligibility  on the
     part of the Company in the future.

     2.14 No Conflicts; Restrictive Documents; Consents . Except as set forth in
Schedule 2.14, the Company is not subject to, or a party to, any  Organizational
Document, Law (including without limitation the Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act, as amended) or Contract,  or any other restriction of any kind
or character,  which  adversely  affects the business  practices,  operations or
condition  of the  Company or any of its assets or  property,  or which would be
violated by or conflict with,  prevent or impair (whether by acceleration of any
liability, creation of any Encumbrance or otherwise) or require any declaration,
filing,  registration,  notice, approval or consent to, with or of any Person in
connection  with, the  consummation  of the  transactions  contemplated  by this
Agreement or any other Transaction Document,  compliance by the Company with the
terms,  conditions and provisions hereof or thereof, or the present or continued
operation of the Company's business after the date hereof or the Closing Date on
substantially the same basis as heretofore operated, or which would restrict the
ability of the Company to acquire any property or conduct business in any area.

     2.15 Litigation.  There is no action, suit, proceeding at law or in equity,
arbitration or  administrative or other proceeding or investigation by or before
any governmental or other instrumentality or agency pending or, to the Company's
knowledge, threatened against or affecting the Company, or any of its properties
or rights which could affect the right or ability of the Company to carry on its
business  as now  conducted,  or  which  could  affect  the  condition,  whether
financial or otherwise,  or  properties  of the Company;  and the Company is not
aware of any basis for any such action, proceeding or investigation. Neither the
Company nor any of its  affiliates is subject to any  judgment,  order or decree
entered in any  lawsuit  or  proceeding  which may  affect any of the  Company's
operations or business  practices,  or the ability of the Company to acquire any
property or conduct business in any area.

     2.16 Taxes.  The Company has filed or caused to be filed,  within the times
and  manners  prescribed  by law,  all  federal,  state,  local and  foreign tax
returns,  elections  and tax reports  which are required to be filed by, or with
respect to, the Company.  True and complete copies of all such returns have been
made available to the Purchaser.  Except as set forth on Schedule 2.16, (i) such
returns and reports  reflect  accurately  all liability for taxes of the Company
for the periods  covered  thereby,  (ii) all federal,  state,  local and foreign
income, profits,  franchise,  sales, use, occupancy,  excise and other taxes and
assessments  (including  interest  and  penalties)  payable  by or due  from the
Company have been fully paid or adequately  disclosed and fully  provided for in
the books and financial  statements of the Company,  and (iii) no examination of
any tax return of the Company is  currently  in  progress,  and no basis for any
assessment exists. There are no outstanding  agreements or waivers extending the
statutory period of limitation applicable to any tax return of the Company.

     2.17  Independent  Contractor  Status.  Schedule 2.17 sets forth a complete
list of the Persons  engaged by the Company at any time to render  consulting or
similar   services  to  the   Company  on  an   independent   contractor   basis
(collectively, the "Company Contractors"). The


                                       14
<PAGE>
Company has previously  made available to the Purchaser true and complete copies
of each and every  agreement  between the  Company  and any Company  Contractor.
Except as set forth on Schedule  2.17,  each  Company  Contractor  is and at all
times has been an independent contractor to, and not an employee of, the Company
for  purposes  of all  applicable  federal  and  state  income  tax  withholding
requirements and otherwise.

     2.18 Liabilities; Indebtedness.

          (a) Except as set forth on Schedule  2.18,  there are no  liabilities,
     obligations or indebtedness of or claims against the Company, whether known
     or  unknown,  due or not yet due,  asserted or  unasserted  (whether or not
     probable of  assertion),  actual or potential,  choate or inchoate,  fixed,
     contingent, or otherwise, arising from or in connection with, or based upon
     acts, omissions, events, things, facts, conditions,  matters or occurrences
     existing,  occurring or taking place on or before the Closing Date, whether
     or not discovered,  known, asserted,  expected or contemplated by any party
     or third party, or in any way choate on the Closing Date; and the Purchaser
     shall not suffer or be subject to any Losses (as defined in Section  8.2(a)
     below)  arising  from the  foregoing,  whether  such Losses occur before or
     after the Closing  Date,  except:  (i) those  liabilities  set forth in the
     Balance Sheet,  (ii)  liabilities  that are not greater than $25,000 in the
     aggregate,   and  (iii)   liabilities   actually  incurred  (not  including
     contingent liabilities (other than as permitted by Section 2.29) or acts or
     omissions  which  may give rise to future  liabilities)  subsequent  to the
     Balance Sheet Date and incurred prior to the Effective Time in the ordinary
     course  of the  Company's  business  and  consistent  with  past  practice;
     provided that, without limitation, any other act or omission which may give
     rise to liability in the future,  including without limitation,  any of the
     following or any act or omission which results in any of the following, are
     specifically  deemed not to be in the ordinary course of business:  (A) any
     action,  suit,  proceeding  at  law  or in  equity,  arbitration  or  other
     proceeding or  investigation by or before a governmental or other body, (B)
     violation  of Law,  breach of  contract,  tort,  violation of the rights of
     others,  acts or  omissions  causing  injury  to person  or  property,  (C)
     illegal, unlawful or criminal act or activity; or (D) any act in bad faith.

          (b)  Without  limiting  subsection  (a)  above,  the  Company  has  no
     liabilities of any kind or character incurred in connection with or arising
     from or in connection with the merger of Widegap  Technology,  LLC with and
     into the Company,  that are not reflected on the Balance Sheet or set forth
     on Schedule 2.18.

          (c)  Schedule  2.18  is a  complete  and  correct  listing  of all (i)
     indebtedness  for money borrowed by the Company,  (ii)  guarantees by or of
     the Company, (iii) letters of credit and other credit enhancements extended
     to the Company,  and (iv) all capital lease  obligations  (all  obligations
     described by (i) through (iv) being referred to herein as  "Indebtedness").
     No default or event of default, or event or condition which with the giving
     of  notice,  the  lapse  of  time,  a  determination  of  materiality,  the
     satisfaction  of any other  condition or any  combination  of the foregoing
     would  constitute such a default or event of default exists with respect to
     any such  Indebtedness.  As of the date of this  Agreement,  the sum of the
     Indebtedness  of the Company does not exceed  $200,000 in principal  amount
     plus accrued interest at non-default rates.

     2.19 Insurance.  Set forth in Schedule 2.19 is a complete list of insurance
policies which the Company  maintains  with respect to its business,  properties
and employees,  together with a description of each claim made thereon in excess
of $25,000. All such policies are in full force and effect and are free from any
right of termination on the part of the applicable insurance carriers. Except as
set forth on Schedule 2.19, such policies, with respect to their

                                       15
<PAGE>
amounts and types of coverage,  are adequate to insure  fully  against  risks to
which the  Company  and its  property  and  assets are  normally  exposed in the
operation of its business,  including professional liability, and do not require
the payment of any unusual  premium,  surcharge,  or other increase above market
insurance  rates as a result of the  nature  of the  Company's  business  or the
manner in which such business has been  conducted,  including but not limited to
past loss or claim experience or risks of operations  pertinent to insurability.
There  are no  outstanding  unpaid  premiums  except in the  ordinary  course of
business,  and the  Company  has not  received  any  notice of  cancellation  or
non-renewal  of any such policy.  The Company is not aware of any  extraordinary
risks,  situations,  occurrences or other matters which have been disclosed,  or
should have been disclosed,  to insurance carriers or brokers in connection with
any applications for insurance. There has never been any material adverse change
in the  relationship of the Company with its insurers or in the premiums payable
pursuant  to  such  policies.  There  exists  no  event  of  default  or  event,
occurrence,  condition or act (including the  transactions  contemplated by this
Agreement) which, with the giving of notice,  the lapse of time or the happening
of any further event or condition  would become a default or occasion a material
premium  increase (other than an increase  anticipated as a result of the growth
and change in nature of the business) under any such policy or give rise to, and
the Company has no anticipation  of, any termination or cancellation  thereof or
premium increase therefor. Except as set forth on Schedule 2.19, the Company has
been  covered by one or more  policies of  insurance  of the types  described in
Schedule 2.19  continuously  since the  commencement  of its  operations for all
services provided by the Company at any time.

     2.20 Intellectual Property.

          (a) As used in this Section 2.20,  "Proprietary  Asset" means any: (a)
     patent, patent application, trademark (whether registered or unregistered),
     trademark  application,  trade name, fictitious business name, service mark
     (whether registered or unregistered),  service mark application,  copyright
     (whether  registered or  unregistered),  copyright  application,  maskwork,
     maskwork  application,  trade secret,  know-how,  customer  list,  computer
     software, source code, algorithm, invention, design, blueprint, engineering
     drawing,  proprietary  product,  technology,  proprietary  right  or  other
     intellectual  property  right or intangible  asset;  or (b) right to use or
     exploit any of the foregoing.

          (b)  Schedule  2.20(b) sets forth,  with  respect to each  Proprietary
     Asset  owned  by the  Company  that is  registered  with  any  Governmental
     Authority or for which an application has been filed with any  Governmental
     Authority,  (i) a brief description of such Proprietary Asset, and (ii) the
     names  of the  jurisdictions  covered  by the  applicable  registration  or
     application.

          (c) Schedule  2.20(c)  identifies and provides a brief  description of
     all other Proprietary  Assets owned by the Company that are material to the
     business of the Company.

          (d) Schedule  2.20(d)  identifies and provides a brief  description of
     each Proprietary  Asset that is licensed or otherwise made available to the
     Company by any Person  (other  than  commercially  available  business  and
     accounting  software  licensed  to  the  Company  under  software  licenses
     generally available to the public), and identifies the Contract under which
     such Proprietary Asset is being licensed or otherwise made available to the
     Company.

          (e) Except as set forth on Schedule 2.20(e),  the Company has good and
     valid title to all of the Proprietary  Assets  identified or required to be
     identified in Schedules


                                       16
<PAGE>
     2.20(b) and 2.20(c) (the "Company Proprietary  Assets"),  free and clear of
     all Encumbrances other than Permitted Encumbrances. The Company has a valid
     right  to  use,  license  and  otherwise  exploit  all  Proprietary  Assets
     identified in Schedule 2.20(d).

          (f)  Except as set forth in  Schedule  2.20(f),  the  Company  has not
     developed  jointly  with any other  Person  any  Proprietary  Asset that is
     material to the  business of the Company  with  respect to which such other
     Person has any rights. Except as set forth in Schedule 2.20(f), there is no
     Contract  pursuant  to which  any  Person  has any  right  (whether  or not
     currently  exercisable)  to use,  license or otherwise  exploit any Company
     Proprietary Asset.

          (g) The Company  has taken  reasonable  measures  and  precautions  to
     protect and maintain the confidentiality,  secrecy and value of all Company
     Proprietary  Assets  (except   Proprietary  Assets  whose  value  would  be
     unimpaired  by  disclosure).   Without   limiting  the  generality  of  the
     foregoing,  except as set forth in  Schedule  2.20(g),  (i) all current and
     former  employees  of the Company who are or were  involved in, or who have
     contributed  to, the  creation or  development  of any Company  Proprietary
     Asset have executed and  delivered to the Company an agreement  (containing
     no  exceptions to or  exclusions  from the scope of its  coverage)  that is
     substantially identical to the form of agreement attached hereto as Exhibit
     C-1,  C-2  or  C-3  (as  applicable),  and  (ii)  all  current  and  former
     consultants  and  independent  contractors  to the  Company who are or were
     involved in, or who have contributed to, the creation or development of any
     Company  Proprietary  Asset have  executed and  delivered to the Company an
     agreement  (containing no exceptions to or exclusions from the scope of its
     coverage) that is substantially identical to the form of agreement attached
     hereto as Exhibit  C-1,  C-2 or C-3 (as  applicable).  No current or former
     employee,  officer,  director,   stockholder,   consultant  or  independent
     contractor  has any  right,  claim or  interest  in or with  respect to any
     Company  Proprietary  Asset.  Each such agreement entered into by a present
     employee,  consultant or  independent  contractor of the Company is in full
     force and effect and constitutes a valid and legally binding  obligation of
     each party thereto, enforceable thereagainst in accordance with its terms.

          (h) With  respect to the pending  patent  applications  of the Company
     listed in Schedule 2.20(b) (the "Patent Applications"):

               (i)  all  prior  art  and  other  information   material  to  the
          patentability  of the claims in the Patent  Applications  of which the
          inventors  are aware has been duly  disclosed  to the U.S.  Patent and
          Trademark Office;

               (ii) the Company and the  inventors did not sell or offer to sell
          devices  covered by any claims of any of the Patent  Applications,  or
          manufactured   using  any  process   claimed  in  any  of  the  Patent
          Applications,  or disclose  the claimed  invention  to any third party
          other than patent counsel for the Company, prior to the filing date of
          such application;

               (iii) each of the Patent Applications  discloses the best mode of
          operation  of the  claimed  device or process as  contemplated  by the
          named inventors at the time of filing such application;

               (iv) the Persons  named as inventors  in each Patent  Application
          are the inventors of the invention described in such application; and


                                       17
<PAGE>
               (v) each inventor named in each Patent Application has executed a
          binding  assignment of his or her rights to such  application in favor
          of the Company, and each such assignment has been duly recorded in the
          U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.

          (i) Except as set forth in  Schedule  2.20(i),  insofar as the Company
     has knowledge of the matters referred to:

               (i) none of the Company  Proprietary  Assets,  and no Proprietary
          Asset that is  currently  being  developed  by the Company  (either by
          itself or with any other Person), infringes,  misappropriates or makes
          any  unauthorized  use of any  Proprietary  Asset owned or used by any
          other Person;

               (ii)  none of the  devices  that  have  been  designed,  created,
          developed, assembled or manufactured by the Company, nor any apparatus
          or  processes  used by the  Company  in the  manufacture  or  assembly
          thereof,  infringes,  misappropriates or makes any unauthorized use of
          any Proprietary  Asset owned or used by any other Person,  and none of
          such  devices,  apparatus  or  processes,  has at any time  infringed,
          misappropriated  or made any  unauthorized use of, and the Company has
          received no notice or other communication (in writing or otherwise) of
          any   actual,    alleged,    possible   or   potential   infringement,
          misappropriation  or unauthorized use of, any Proprietary  Asset owned
          or used by any other Person; and

               (iii) to the knowledge of the Company,  no Person is  infringing,
          misappropriating  or  making  any  unauthorized  use of,  any  Company
          Proprietary Asset.

          (j) The Company  Proprietary  Assets constitute all of the Proprietary
     Assets  necessary  to enable the  Company to conduct  its  business  in the
     manner in which such  business has been and is being  conducted.  Except as
     set forth in Schedule 2.20(j),  the Company has not (i) licensed any of the
     Company  Proprietary Assets to any Person or (ii) entered into any covenant
     not to compete  or  Contract  limiting  its  ability  to exploit  fully any
     Company  Proprietary  Assets  or to  transact  business  in any  market  or
     geographical area or with any Person.

          (k) The Company  further  represents and warrants to the Purchaser and
     Merger Sub as set forth on Schedule 2.20(k).

     2.21  Licenses.  Schedule  2.21  attached  hereto  contains an accurate and
complete list of all material licenses,  franchises,  permits,  rights and other
authorizations  (collectively,  "Licenses")  used, or anticipated to be used, in
the  operation of the business of the Company or otherwise  held by the Company.
The Company owns or otherwise  lawfully uses each License  necessary or required
by  applicable  law to conduct its  business as conducted as of the date of this
Agreement,  free and clear of all Encumbrances.  All of the Licenses are in full
force and effect,  not subject to any current default or right of  cancellation,
termination or revocation.

     2.22  Compliance  with Laws.  The Company is, and at all times has been, in
compliance  with all applicable Laws in all material  respects.  There exists no
event, occurrence,  condition or act which, with the giving of notice, the lapse
of time or the occurrence of any further event or condition  would  constitute a
violation of any applicable Law by the Company in any material respects. Neither
the Company nor any of its affiliates, nor any Person acting for or on behalf of
any  thereof,  has at any time made or  participated  in any bribe,  kickback or
illegal payment.

                                       18
<PAGE>
     2.23 Accounts  Receivable.  Without  duplication of the representations and
warranties set forth in Section 2.13, each of the Company's accounts  receivable
arises from a bona fide transaction occurring in the ordinary course of business
and to the knowledge of the Company will be collectible net of reserves shown on
the Balance Sheet or taken in the ordinary  course of business since the Balance
Sheet Date and there is no contest,  claim or right of set-off  contained in any
oral or written  agreement  with any  account  debtor  relating to the amount or
validity of any account  receivable.  There has been no material  adverse change
since the Balance Sheet Date in the amount of accounts receivable or other debts
due the Company or the allowances with respect  thereto,  or accounts payable of
the Company, from that reflected in the Balance Sheet.

     2.24 Employee Relations.  Schedule 2.24 contains an accurate list of all of
the  Company's  employees,  showing  for  each  his or  her  position,  date  of
employment, 1999 compensation,  and current annualized salary. The Company is in
substantial  compliance  with  all Laws  respecting  employment  and  employment
practices,  terms and conditions of employment and wages and hours,  and has not
and is not  engaged in any  unfair  labor  practice.  No unfair  labor  practice
complaint  against the Company is pending  before the National  Labor  Relations
Board or any other governmental  authority.  There is no labor strike,  dispute,
slowdown or stoppage actually pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened
against or involving the Company.  No representation  question exists respecting
the employees of the Company.  No grievance  which might have an adverse  effect
upon  the  Company  or  the  conduct  of its  business  exists,  no  arbitration
proceeding  arising  out of or under  any  collective  bargaining  agreement  is
pending,  and no claim  therefor has been  asserted.  No  collective  bargaining
agreement  is currently  being  negotiated  by the Company.  The Company has not
experienced  any labor  difficulty  during  the last  three  years.  No  current
employee has expressed or communicated  to the Company any current  grievance or
any intent to leave or  contemplation  of leaving the Company's  employ.  To the
Company's knowledge, there has not been and there will not be any adverse change
in relations  with employees of the Company as a result of any  announcement  or
the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

     2.25 Employee Benefit Plans.

          (a) Set forth in Schedule 2.25 is an accurate and complete list of all
     employee  benefit plans of any variety  whatsoever  (the "Employee  Benefit
     Plans"),  including  without  limitation  any within the meaning of Section
     3(3) of ERISA (whether or not any such Employee Benefit Plans are otherwise
     exempt from the provisions of ERISA),  as well as any bonus,  stock option,
     stock  purchase,  severance or incentive  plan,  arrangement  or agreement,
     established, maintained or contributed to by or with respect to the Company
     at any time.  The Company has provided the Purchaser with true and complete
     copies of all documents governing or relating to each such Employee Benefit
     Plan along with, to the extent  applicable,  the summary plan  description,
     IRS Form 5500 and IRS determination letter ("Determination Letter").

          (b) Each Employee  Benefit Plan has been  administered in all respects
     in accordance  with its terms and is in compliance in all respects with the
     applicable provisions,  if any, of ERISA and the Code. All reports, returns
     and similar  documents with respect to the Employee  Benefit Plans required
     to be filed  with any  government  agency or  distributed  to any  Employee
     Benefit Plan  participant  have been duly and timely filed or  distributed.
     There are no  investigations by any government  agency,  and no termination
     proceedings or other claims, suits

                                       19
<PAGE>
     or proceedings  against or involving any Employee Benefit Plan or asserting
     any rights or claims to benefits under any Employee Benefit Plan that could
     give rise to any  liability to the Company or such  Employee  Benefit Plan.
     Except as set forth on Schedule  2.25,  all of the Employee  Benefit  Plans
     that are intended to be  qualified  under  Section  401(a) of the Code have
     received a  Determination  Letter  and such  plans and the  trusts  related
     thereto are exempt from federal income taxes; no such Determination  Letter
     has  been  revoked  and  revocation  has not been  threatened;  and no such
     Employee  Benefit Plan has been  amended  since the date of its most recent
     Determination  Letter or  application  therefor in any  respect  that would
     adversely  affect its  qualification  or  increase  its cost.  No  Employee
     Benefit Plans have been terminated,  except for such amendments made by the
     sponsor of the  prototype  document  for which the  deadline  for filing an
     application for a Determination Letter has not yet expired.  There have not
     been any  "reportable  events" (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA and the
     regulations  thereunder) with respect thereto; and no Employee Benefit Plan
     has an  "accumulated  funding  deficiency"  within  the  meaning of Section
     412(a) of the Code or any unfunded liability of any kind.

     2.26 Environmental Matters.

          (a) For purposes of this Section 2.26, "Hazardous Substance" means any
     of the  following:  (i) a  "hazardous  substance"  as  defined in 42 U.S.C.
     Section 9601(14), as amended from time to time, and all rules,  regulations
     and orders  promulgated  thereunder as in effect from time to time,  (ii) a
     "hazardous waste," as defined in 42 U.S.C. Section 6903(5), as amended from
     time to time, and all rules,  regulations and orders promulgated thereunder
     as in effect from time to time, (iii) if not included in (i) or (ii) above,
     "hazardous  waste  constituents"  as defined in 40 C.F.R.  Section  260.10,
     including,  without  limitation,  those  listed in Appendix VII and VIII of
     Subpart D of 40 C.F.R.  Section 261, as amended from time to time,  and all
     rules, regulations and orders promulgated thereunder as in effect from time
     to time,  (iv) "source,"  "special  nuclear" or  "by-product  material," as
     defined in 42 U.S.C.  Sections 3011, et seq., as amended from time to time,
     and all rules,  regulations and orders promulgated  thereunder as in effect
     from time to time,  and (v) any other waste,  substance  or  material,  the
     generation,  transportation,  treatment,  storage,  release, or disposal of
     which  is  regulated  under  or  by  applicable  Laws,   including  without
     limitation    petroleum    and    petroleum    products,    asbestos    and
     asbestos-containing  materials,  and low-level  radioactive  substances and
     wastes.

          (b)  Except as set forth in  Schedule  2.26(b),  the  Company  and its
     leased  real  property  set  forth  in  Schedule  2.11  (the  "Leased  Real
     Property")  are in  compliance,  and since the Company's  acquisition of an
     interest  in its  Leased  Real  Property  have been in  compliance,  in all
     material  respects,  and, to the  knowledge of the  Company,  prior to such
     acquisition  were  in  compliance,   in  all  material  respects  with  all
     applicable  Laws  relating to Hazardous  Substances.  Without  limiting the
     foregoing,  (i) the  operations  of the Company do not  violate,  and since
     commencement  of  operations  of the  Company  have  not  violated,  in any
     material respect, any Law relating to the generation,  storage, processing,
     utilization,  labeling,   transportation,   treatment,  disposal,  release,
     discharge,  emission or other disposition of Hazardous Substances, and (ii)
     the  Company or, to the  knowledge  of the  Company,  any current or former
     owner,  occupant or operator of any  property at any time owned,  leased or
     operated by the Company,  has not ever  utilized  any such  property or any
     portion  thereof  in  material   violation  of  any  Law  relating  to  the
     generation,  storage, processing,  utilization,  labeling,  transportation,
     disposal, treatment,  emission, release, discharge, or other disposition of
     Hazardous Substances. Schedule 2.26(b) hereto contains: (i) a true list and
     description of all  environmental  audits and assessments in the possession
     of, or available to, the Company relating to the Leased Real Property,  and
     (ii) any property at any time owned, leased or

                                       20
<PAGE>
     operated by the Company,  including,  with respect to any such  assessment,
     removal, remediation,  closure or other type of such operation, the date of
     commencement;  the date of  completion  or closure or  anticipated  date of
     completion or closure; and the estimated cost of any such operation.

          (c) The  Company  has not and does not  utilize,  store,  dispose  of,
     treat, generate, process, transport, release or own any Hazardous Substance
     in material violation of any applicable Law.

          (d) The  Company  has,  in a timely  manner,  obtained  all  licenses,
     permits,  consents and approvals from any foreign, federal, state, local or
     other governmental,  administrative or regulatory authority,  body, agency,
     court, tribunal or similar entity ("Governmental  Authority") and filed all
     reports  required  to be filed  under or  pursuant  to any  applicable  Law
     related to any Hazardous Substance.

          (e) The Company has not received  any notice of any writ,  injunction,
     claim, decree, order or judgment outstanding or of any action instituted or
     threatened under or pursuant to, or of any violation of, any  environmental
     Law  applicable  to  any  operations  or  property  of the  Company  or any
     predecessors thereof,  including,  without limitation,  any notice from any
     Governmental  Authority or other Person  advising the Company that it is or
     is  potentially  responsible  for  response  costs under the  Comprehensive
     Environmental Response,  Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. Section
     9601 et  seq.)  (together  with  the  regulations  promulgated  thereunder,
     "CERCLA"), or any other Law with respect to a release or threatened release
     of any Hazardous Substances.

          (f)  Except as set forth on  Schedule  2.26(b),  the  Company  has not
     received any notice of any violation of any environmental,  zoning,  worker
     safety or land use Law, including,  without  limitation,  under CERCLA, the
     Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. Section 6901,
     et seq.),  the Oil  Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C.  2701,  et seq.),  the
     Emergency  Planning and Community  Right-to-Know Act, as amended (42 U.S.C.
     Section 11001, et seq.), the Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. Section
     3121, et seq.),  the Clean Air Act, as amended (42 U.S.C.  Section 7401, et
     seq.),  the Toxic  Substances  Control  Act, as amended (15 U.S.C.  Section
     2601, et seq.),  Occupational  Safety and Health Act, as amended (29 U.S.C.
     Section 651, et seq.), together with the regulations promulgated under each
     respective law, and any state or local similar laws and regulations and any
     so-called local, state or federal "superfund" or "superlien" law.

          (g)  Except  as set  forth  on  Schedule  2.26(g),  to  the  Company's
     knowledge,  there are not now and never have been any under- or aboveground
     storage tanks located on any Leased Real Property or any other  property at
     any  time  owned,  leased  or  operated  by  the  Company  or  any  of  its
     predecessors or subsidiaries.

     2.27 Interests in Clients,  Suppliers, Etc. Except as described in Schedule
2.27, neither the Company, nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any Shareholder
possesses, directly or indirectly, any financial or other interest in any Person
which  is a  client,  supplier,  customer,  lessor,  lessee,  or  competitor  or
potential competitor of the Company (other than ownership of a minority interest
in a publicly traded entity).

     2.28 Bank  Accounts,  Powers of Attorney.  Set forth in Schedule 2.28 is an
accurate  and  complete  list  showing  (a) the name and address of each bank in
which the Company has


                                       21
<PAGE>
an account or safe  deposit  box, the number of any such account or any such box
and the  names of all  persons  authorized  to draw  thereon  or to have  access
thereto,  and (b) the names of all persons,  if any,  holding powers of attorney
(including  without limitation with respect to tax matters) from the Company and
a summary statement of the terms thereof.

     2.29 No Changes Since Balance Sheet Date.

          (a) Except as set forth on  Schedule  2.29,  since the  Balance  Sheet
     Date,  the Company has not (i) incurred any  liability or obligation of any
     nature  (whether  accrued,  absolute,   contingent,  known  or  unknown  or
     otherwise)  except in the ordinary  course of business or in an amount less
     than  $25,000  in the  aggregate  (ii)  permitted  any of its  assets to be
     subjected to any  Encumbrance  (other than Permitted  Encumbrances),  (iii)
     sold,  transferred  or  otherwise  disposed  of any  assets  except  in the
     ordinary  course of  business  or for an amount  less than  $25,000  in the
     aggregate,  (iv) made any capital expenditure or commitment therefor except
     in the ordinary course of business or in an amount less than $25,000 in the
     aggregate,   (v)   declared  or  paid  any   dividend  or  made  any  other
     distribution,   or  redeemed,  purchased  or  otherwise  acquired  any  its
     securities or Stock  Acquisition  Rights  therefor,  (vi) made any bonus or
     profit sharing  distribution  or payment of any kind,  (vii)  increased its
     indebtedness  for borrowed money,  except current  borrowings from banks in
     the  ordinary  course of business or in an amount less than  $25,000 in the
     aggregate,  or  made  any  loan  to  any  Person;  (viii)  written  off  as
     uncollectible  any notes or accounts  receivable  except  write-offs in the
     ordinary course of business charged to applicable  reserves,  none of which
     individually or in the aggregate exceeds $25,000, (ix) granted any increase
     in the  rate of  wages,  salaries,  bonuses  or other  remuneration  of any
     executive  employee or other employees,  (x) cancelled or waived any claims
     or rights,  (xi) made any change in any method of  accounting  or  auditing
     practice,  (xii)  otherwise  conducted  its  business  or entered  into any
     transaction,  except in the usual and  ordinary  manner and in the ordinary
     course of business, or (xiii) agreed,  whether or not in writing, to do any
     of the foregoing.

          (b) As of the date hereof,  the aggregate amount outstanding under the
     Bank  Loan is  $200,000  in  principal  amount  plus  accrued  interest  at
     non-default rates.

     2.30 Disclosure.  None of this Agreement, the Financial Statements,  or any
schedule, exhibit or certificate attached hereto or delivered in accordance with
the terms hereof or any document or statement in writing which has been supplied
by or on behalf of the Company in connection with the transactions  contemplated
by this Agreement, contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits any
statement of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained
herein or therein not misleading.  All information  concerning the Company which
is material to the  transactions  contemplated  hereby has been  provided to the
Purchaser,  including  without  limitation any and all  appraisals,  valuations,
estimates or other projections concerning the Company or its securities,  except
that the Company has not provided to Purchaser certain information regarding its
Proprietary  Assets,  the effect of providing which would have, in the Company's
reasonable  opinion,  an adverse  effect on the  Company's  business  should the
transactions  contemplated hereby not be consummated.  There is no fact known to
the  Company  which  materially  adversely  affects  the  business,   prospects,
valuation or  financial  condition  of the Company or its  properties  or assets
which has not been set forth in this Agreement, the Financial Statements, or any
schedule, exhibit or certificate attached hereto or delivered in accordance with
the terms hereof.

                                       22
<PAGE>
     2.31  Broker's or Finder's Fees. No agent, broker, person or firm acting on
behalf  of the  Company  or any  Shareholder  is,  or will be,  entitled  to any
commission or broker's or finder's fees from any of the parties hereto,  or from
any person or entity controlling, controlled by or under common control with any
of the parties hereto,  in connection with any of the transactions  contemplated
by this Agreement.

     2.32 Copies of Documents.  The Company has caused to be made  available for
inspection  and copying by the  Purchaser  and its advisers  true,  complete and
correct  copies  of all  documents  referred  to in  this  Article  II or in any
schedule attached to this Agreement, other than certain documents related to the
Company's Proprietary Assets as described in Section 2.30.

     2.33 Matters  Affecting  Employees.  To the  knowledge  of the Company,  no
employee  of the  Company  is  subject to any  Contract  or Law which  adversely
affects or which might  adversely  affect such  employee's  ability to act as an
employee of the Purchaser or the Surviving Corporation following consummation of
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

     2.34 Pooling.  The pooling  letter  referred to in Section 5.6 will be true
and accurate as of the date of its  execution and delivery by the Company and as
of the Closing Date.

     2.35  Affiliate  Letters.  Set  forth  on  Schedule  2.35 is a list of each
"affiliate"  of the  Company  (within  the  meaning of Rule 145 of the rules and
regulations  promulgated  under the Securities Act, or applicable SEC accounting
releases with respect to pooling of interests accounting treatment) (a "Rule 145
Affiliate") as of the date of this  Agreement.  Each such Rule 145 Affiliate has
executed and  delivered  to the  Purchaser  and the  Purchaser's  accountants  a
letter,  dated  and as of the  date of this  Agreement,  in form  and  substance
satisfactory  to the  Purchaser  and its  accountants  in the form  attached  as
Exhibit D.

     2.36 Investment.  Each Principal  Shareholder  represents and warrants that
such  Principal  Shareholder  (i) is acquiring  Purchaser  Common Stock for such
Principal  Shareholder's  own account for  investment and not with a view to, or
for resale in connection with, any distribution of Purchaser Common Stock within
the  meaning of the  Securities  Act and does not  intend to  resell,  assign or
otherwise  dispose  of all or any  part  of the  Purchaser  Common  Stock  being
acquired;  (ii) understands  that such Principal  Shareholder may be required to
bear the economic risk of an  investment  in the Purchaser  beyond the time that
such Principal  Shareholder desires to liquidate such investment;  (iii) is able
to bear the economic  risk of  investment  in Purchaser  Common Stock and has no
need for liquidity with respect to the Purchaser Common Stock; (iv) has received
all information that such Principal Shareholder considers necessary or advisable
to make a decision  concerning an  investment in Purchaser  Common Stock and has
had adequate  opportunity  to ask questions and receive  answers  concerning the
terms and  conditions  of the Merger and to obtain  any  additional  information
which the Company or  Purchaser  possesses or can acquire  without  unreasonable
effort or expense that is  necessary  to verify the accuracy of the  information
provided by the Company or Purchaser; (v) has sought such accounting,  legal and
tax advice as such Principal  Shareholder  has  considered  necessary to make an
informed investment decision; (vi) such Principal Shareholder  acknowledges that
the Purchaser is a reporting  company under Section 12 of Exchange Act; and such
Principal  Shareholder has had an opportunity to review the Purchaser's  various
filings  previously  made  pursuant  to the  Exchange  Act  which  are  publicly
available.

                                       23
<PAGE>
     The subject matter covered by any section,  subsection or provision of this
Article  II shall not be  exclusive  as to such  subject  matter  to the  extent
covered by another section,  subsection or provision of this Article II, and the
specificity of any representation or warranty or other provision or part thereof
shall not affect or limit the generality of any other representation or warranty
or other  provision  or part  thereof.  The Company has used its best efforts to
identify correctly on each disclosure  Schedule  (including by  cross-reference)
each item of  disclosure  applicable  to such  Schedule,  but the  failure to so
cross-reference  shall not cause a  representation  to be untrue if the relevant
item is clearly disclosed on another Schedule and the applicability of such item
to another Schedule is clearly recognizable.


                                   ARTICLE III
         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE PURCHASER AND MERGER SUB

     The Purchaser and Merger Sub jointly and severally represent and warrant to
the Company and agree as follows:

     3.1  Existence  and Good  Standing.  The  Purchaser is a  corporation  duly
organized,  validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of
North Carolina. Merger Sub is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and
in good standing under the laws of the State of North Carolina.

     3.2 Capital Stock. Merger Sub has an authorized  capitalization  consisting
of 100,000  shares of common  stock,  $.01 par value per share,  of which  1,000
shares  are  issued  and  outstanding  and are held by the  Purchaser.  All such
outstanding  shares have been duly  authorized  and validly issued and are fully
paid and nonassessable.

     3.3 Purchaser Shares.  The shares of Purchaser Common Stock to be issued to
the  Shareholders  pursuant to Section 1.1 above have been duly  authorized and,
when issued and delivered in accordance with the terms of this  Agreement,  will
be validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable. The shares of Purchaser Common
Stock to be issued upon the  exercise of those Stock  Options  under the Company
Plan which are to be assumed by the  Purchaser  pursuant to Section  1.1(c)(iii)
have been duly  authorized,  and when issued will be validly issued,  fully paid
and  non-assessable.  The shares of Purchaser Common Stock to be issued upon the
exercise of the Warrants  which shall  constitute  warrants to acquire shares of
Purchaser Common Stock pursuant to Section  1.1(c)(v) have been duly authorized,
and when issued will be validly issued and fully paid and non-assessable.

     3.4 Power and Authority.

          (a) The Purchaser has all requisite  power and authority to enter into
     and deliver this Agreement and the other Transaction  Documents to which it
     is a party,  to perform its  obligations  hereunder and  thereunder  and to
     consummate  the   transactions   contemplated   hereby  and  thereby.   The
     Purchaser's  execution,  delivery and performance of this Agreement and the
     other  Transaction  Documents  and  the  Purchaser's  consummation  of  the
     transactions  contemplated  hereby  and  thereby  will  have  been duly and
     validly  authorized  by all corporate  action  required of the Purchaser by
     applicable  Law or its  Organizational  Documents.  This  Agreement and the
     other  Transaction  Documents to which the Purchaser is a party  constitute
     the valid and legally  binding  obligations of the  Purchaser,  enforceable
     against the Purchaser in

                                       24
<PAGE>
     accordance  with  their  respective  terms,  except as  enforcement  may be
     limited by general equitable  principles (whether raised in a proceeding at
     law or in equity), or by applicable bankruptcy,  insolvency,  moratorium or
     similar laws of general  application  relating to or  affecting  creditors'
     rights (including without limitation, the effect of statutory or other laws
     regarding fraudulent conveyances or transfers and preferential transfers).

          (b) Merger Sub has all requisite power and authority to enter into and
     deliver this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is a
     party,  to  perform  its  obligations   hereunder  and  thereunder  and  to
     consummate the transactions  contemplated hereby and thereby.  Merger Sub's
     execution,  delivery  and  performance  of this  Agreement  and  the  other
     Transaction  Documents and Merger Sub's  consummation  of the  transactions
     contemplated  hereby and thereby will have been duly and validly authorized
     by all corporate  action  required of Merger Sub by  applicable  Law or its
     Organizational   Documents.   This  Agreement  and  the  other  Transaction
     Documents to which Merger Sub is a party  constitute  the valid and legally
     binding  obligations  of Merger  Sub,  enforceable  against  Merger  Sub in
     accordance  with  their  respective  terms,  except as  enforcement  may be
     limited by general equitable  principles (whether raised in a proceeding at
     law or in equity), or by applicable bankruptcy,  insolvency,  moratorium or
     similar laws of general  application  relating to or  affecting  creditors'
     rights (including without limitation, the effect of statutory or other laws
     regarding fraudulent conveyances or transfers and preferential transfers).

     3.5  No Conflicts; Restrictive Documents;  Consents.  Neither the Purchaser
nor Merger Sub is subject to, or a party to, any Organizational Document, Law or
Contract,  or any other  restriction  of any kind or  character,  which would be
violated by or conflict with,  prevent or impair (whether by acceleration of any
liability, creation of any Encumbrance or otherwise) or require any declaration,
filing,  registration,  notice, approval or consent to, with or of any Person in
connection  with, the  consummation  of the  transactions  contemplated  by this
Agreement or any other Transaction  Document,  or compliance by the Purchaser or
Merger Sub with the terms, conditions and provisions hereof or thereof.

     3.6  SEC Reports.  Since January 1, 1999,  the Purchaser has filed with the
United  States  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  (the  "SEC")  all  forms,
financial  statements,  documents  and  reports  (collectively,  "SEC  Reports")
required to be filed by the  Purchaser  pursuant to the Exchange  Act.  Such SEC
Reports were prepared in all material  respects in accordance  with the Exchange
Act and, when filed,  did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein,
in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.

     3.7  Broker's or Finder's Fees.  Other than CIBC World  Markets  Corp.,  no
agent,  broker,  person or firm acting on behalf of the  Purchaser or Merger Sub
is, or will be, entitled to any commission or broker's or finder's fees from any
of the parties hereto, or from any person or entity  controlling,  controlled by
or under common control with any of the parties  hereto,  in connection with any
of the transactions contemplated herein.

     3.8  Litigation.  There is no action, suit, proceeding at law or in equity,
arbitration or  administrative or other proceeding or investigation by or before
any  governmental  or  other  instrumentality  or  agency  pending  or,  to  the
Purchaser's  knowledge,  threatened against or affecting the Purchaser or Merger
Sub,  or any of their  respective  properties  or rights,  which,  if  adversely
determined, would have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Purchaser
or Merger Sub to consummate the  transactions  contemplated by this Agreement or
to perform

                                       25
<PAGE>
their respective obligations hereunder.  Neither the Purchaser nor Merger Sub is
subject to any  judgment,  order or decree  entered in any lawsuit or proceeding
which may have a material  adverse  effect on the  ability of the  Purchaser  or
Merger Sub to consummate the  transactions  contemplated by this Agreement or to
perform their respective obligations hereunder.

     3.9  No Prior  Activities.  Merger Sub was formed solely for the purpose of
engaging  in the  transactions  contemplated  hereby,  has  engaged  in no other
business  activities  and has  conducted  its  operations  only as  contemplated
hereby.


                                   ARTICLE IV
                 CONDUCT OF BUSINESS; EXCLUSIVE DEALING; REVIEW

     4.1  Conduct of Business of the Company. During the period from the date of
this  Agreement to the Closing Date,  the Company  shall conduct its  operations
only according to its ordinary and usual course of business and preserve  intact
its  business  organization,  keep  available  the  services of its officers and
employees,  maintain  satisfactory  relationships  with  licensors,   suppliers,
distributors, clients and others having business relationships with the Company,
and perform in all material respects all of the Company's  obligations under all
Contracts to which the Company is a party or by which it or any of its assets or
properties are bound. Without limiting the foregoing, prior to the Closing Date,
except  as may be first  approved  in  writing  by the  Purchaser,  set forth in
Schedule 4.1 or otherwise  permitted or required by this Agreement,  the Company
shall not: (a) amend or modify the Company's Organizational Documents, (b) amend
or modify the  compensation  payable or to become payable by the Company to each
officer,  employee  or  agent of the  Company,  (c)  make  any  bonus,  pension,
retirement  or  insurance  payment or  arrangement  to or with any such  persons
except those that may have already been  accrued,  (d) enter into any  Contract,
except  Contracts in the ordinary course of business having a value of less than
$25,000,  (e) make any  change  affecting  any bank,  safe  deposit  or power of
attorney arrangements of the Company, (f) issue or sell, or issue any securities
of the Company or any Stock  Acquisition  Rights for, or  subdivide or otherwise
change in any respect,  any  securities  of the Company,  (g) merge,  combine or
consolidate with another entity, or acquire or purchase an equity interest in or
a substantial  portion of the assets of another  entity,  (h) modify or amend or
waive any benefit of any  non-competition  agreement to which the Company or any
of its  subsidiaries  is a party,  (i) permit any  insurance  policy  naming the
Company  or any  of its  subsidiaries  as a  beneficiary  or  loss  payee  to be
cancelled or terminated  unless replaced at termination  with similar  policies,
(j) incur  Indebtedness  except under the Company's  line of credit with Silicon
Valley Bank (the "Bank Loan") in the ordinary course of business consistent with
past  practices  in an  aggregate  amount  not in excess of  $300,000  including
principal  and interest,  or (k) take any of the actions  referred to in Section
2.29 hereof.  The Company  shall not take or fail to take any action which would
cause  the  representations  and  warranties  contained  in  Article  II of this
Agreement to be or become untrue or  incorrect.  During the period from the date
of this  Agreement to the Closing Date,  the Company shall confer at Purchaser's
request  on  a  regular  and  frequent   basis  with  one  or  more   designated
representatives of the Purchaser to report operational matters and to report the
general status of ongoing operations.  The Company shall notify the Purchaser of
any  unexpected  emergency or other change in the normal course of the Company's
business  or in  the  operation  of  its  properties  and  of  any  governmental
complaints,  investigations or hearings (or  communications  indicating that the
same  may  be  contemplated),   adjudicatory  proceedings,  budget  meetings  or
submissions  involving any property of the Company, and keep the Purchaser fully
informed of such events and permit its representatives prompt access to all

                                       26
<PAGE>
materials  prepared in  connection  therewith.  Notwithstanding  Section  4.1(f)
above,  with the prior written  consent of the Purchaser,  the Company may grant
options,  from the date of this  Agreement to the Closing Date,  exercisable  to
purchase  shares of Company  Common Stock to employees  employed by the Company,
but which shall in any event be on  comparable  terms as existing  Stock Options
and  consistent  with past  practices.  Upon obtaining the  Purchaser's  written
consent,  such  options  shall be deemed to be Stock  Options  for  purposes  of
Section 1.1(c)(iii) and shall be deemed listed in Schedule 2.3.

     4.2 Exclusive Dealing; Voting.

          (a) During the period from the date of this  Agreement  to the Closing
     Date,  the Company (and its  officers,  directors,  employees,  affiliates,
     agents and  representatives)  and the Principal  Shareholders shall refrain
     from  taking any action  directly  or  indirectly  to  encourage,  solicit,
     initiate or engage in  discussions  or  negotiations  with,  or provide any
     information  to, any person or entity other than the  Purchaser  concerning
     any  proposal  for,  or  consummate,  the sale of the  capital  stock in or
     substantially  all  of  the  assets  of,  or  other  business   combination
     involving,  the Company. The Company shall notify the Purchaser immediately
     if any proposal  concerning  any such  proposed  transaction  involving the
     Company or any  significant  assets of the Company (any such proposal being
     referred  to  herein  as an  "Acquisition  Proposal")  or any  request  for
     confidential  information  regarding  the  Company is  received,  and shall
     provide to the Purchaser such  information  regarding any such  Acquisition
     Proposal or request as the Purchaser shall request.

          (b) At any  meeting  of the  Shareholders  called  for the  purpose of
     voting  on the  Merger  (or  any  written  consent  solicited  in lieu of a
     meeting),  each Principal Shareholder agrees to vote his, her or its shares
     in favor of the Merger and against any competing  Acquisition  Proposal, or
     any other  proposal  that would  result in a breach of any  representation,
     warranty, covenant or agreement of the Company hereunder.

     4.3 Review of the Company.  The Purchaser  may,  prior to the Closing Date,
directly  and  through its  representatives,  review the  properties,  books and
records of the  Company and its  financial  and legal  conditions  as and to the
extent they deem  necessary  or advisable to  familiarize  themselves  with such
properties  and other matters;  such review,  and any  information  known to the
Purchaser,  shall not, however, affect the binding nature of representations and
warranties  made by the Company or the Principal  Shareholders  hereunder or the
remedies of the Purchaser for breaches of those  representations and warranties.
With respect to Intellectual Property,  notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in this  paragraph,  Purchaser's  access to the  Intellectual  Property shall be
limited to review of summary  documents  regarding patents and trade secrets and
engineering  documents  that show the  capability  and  performance  of  Company
technology, all as the Company may reasonably determine to provide to Purchaser.
In furtherance of the foregoing, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
this  paragraph,  Purchaser's  access to the  Company's  facilities,  equipment,
technical  data,  books,  records and  employees may be limited in the Company's
reasonable   discretion.   The  Company  shall  permit  the  Purchaser  and  its
representatives  to have,  after the date of this Agreement,  full access to the
premises,  personnel,  accountants  and all books and records of the Company and
cause the officers of the Company to furnish the Purchaser  with such  financial
and  operating  data and other  information  with  respect to the  business  and
properties of the Company as the Purchaser  from time to time  reasonably  shall
request.  In the event of termination of this Agreement without  consummation of
the transactions  contemplated hereby, the Purchaser shall keep confidential any
information obtained from the Company concerning

                                       27
<PAGE>
the Company's properties,  operations and business (unless readily ascertainable
from public or published  information  or trade sources) until the or becomes so
ascertainable  and, at the request of the  Company,  shall return to the Company
all copies of any schedules,  statements, documents or other written information
obtained in connection  therewith.  In the event that Purchaser in the course of
its  investigation  obtains  actual  knowledge  of a  matter  and  if  Purchaser
recognizes that such matter constitutes a material breach of a representation or
warranty of the Company,  Purchaser  shall  promptly  notify the Company of such
breach. Within ten (10) days after the date of this Agreement, the Company shall
deliver  to the  Purchaser  a  complete  and  accurate  list,  certified  by the
President of the Company,  of each Person that at any time  received  Restricted
Shares  which  timely  filed an election  under  Section  83(b) of the Code with
respect to such Restricted Shares,  together with copies of such elections,  and
any other related  documents  reasonably  requested by and  satisfactory  to the
Purchaser.

     4.4  Best  Efforts.  Each of the Company, the Principal  Shareholders,  the
Purchaser  and Merger Sub shall use his, her or its  respective  best efforts in
good faith to satisfy  the various  conditions  to Closing  and  consummate  the
Merger  as  soon as  practicable  after  the  date  hereof  in  accordance  with
applicable laws.


                                    ARTICLE V
           CONDITIONS TO THE PURCHASER'S AND MERGER SUB'S OBLIGATIONS

     The  Purchaser's  and Merger Sub's  obligations to engage in the Merger are
conditioned upon  satisfaction,  on or prior to the Closing Date, of each of the
following conditions:

     5.1  Truth of  Representations  and  Warranties.  The  representations  and
warranties  of the  Company and the  Principal  Shareholders  contained  in this
Agreement or in any schedule  attached hereto that are qualified by reference to
materiality shall be true and correct,  and the  representations  and warranties
that are not so qualified shall be true and correct in all material respects, on
and as of the Closing  Date with the same effect as though such  representations
and  warranties had been made on and as of such date, and the Company shall have
delivered to the Purchaser a certificate, dated the Closing Date, to such effect
as to the Company.

     5.2 Good Standing and Other Certificates.  The Company shall have delivered
to  the  Purchaser  (a) a copy  of  the  Company's  Articles  of  Incorporation,
including  all  amendments  thereto,  certified  by the  Secretary  of  State of
California as of the Closing Date or any of the five  preceding  business  days,
(b) a certificate  from the Secretary of State of California  and the California
Franchise  Tax Board to the  effect  that the  Company  is in good  standing  in
California,  (c) a copy of the bylaws of the Company, certified by the Secretary
of the Company as being true and correct and in effect on the Closing Date,  and
(d) a copy of resolutions,  certified as of the Closing Date by the Secretary of
the Company,  adopted by the Board of Directors and  Shareholders of the Company
and  authorizing the execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement and
the other Transaction Documents to which the Company is a party, the performance
by the Company of its obligations  hereunder and thereunder and the consummation
by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.

     5.3 Performance of Agreements. All of the agreements of the Company and the
Shareholders to be performed on or before the Closing Date pursuant to the terms
of this Agreement shall have been duly performed in all material  respects,  and
the Company shall


                                       28
<PAGE>
have delivered to the Purchaser a  certificate,  dated the Closing Date, to such
effect as to the Company.

     5.4  No Litigation.  No action or proceedings shall have been instituted or
threatened  before a court or other government body or by any public  authority,
and no claim shall have been asserted or threatened to be asserted,  to restrain
or prohibit any of the transactions  contemplated  hereby, and the Company shall
have delivered to the Purchaser a  certificate,  dated the Closing Date, to such
effect.

     5.5  Pooling Letter.  The Company  shall have executed and delivered to the
Purchaser and the Purchaser's  accountants a representations letter, in form and
substance  satisfactory  to the  Purchaser  and  its  accountants,  relating  to
"pooling of interests" accounting.

     5.6  Affiliate  Letters.  Each Rule 145  Affiliate  shall have executed and
delivered to the Purchaser and the Purchaser's accountants a letter, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Purchaser and its accountants in the form attached
as Exhibit D.

     5.7  Pooling Opinion. The Purchaser shall have received a letter, dated the
Closing Date, from Ernst & Young LLP, accountants for the Purchaser, in form and
substance  satisfactory  to the  Purchaser,  regarding  the  appropriateness  of
pooling  of  interests  accounting  for the  transactions  contemplated  by this
Agreement.

     5.8  Opinion of the Company's Counsel. The Company shall have furnished the
Purchaser  with an  opinion,  dated and as of the  Closing  Date,  of  Riordan &
McKinzie,  a  professional  corporation,  counsel  to the  Company,  in the form
attached as Exhibit E.

     5.9 No Material Adverse Change. Since the date of this Agreement, no event,
fact, change,  condition,  circumstance or other development shall have occurred
that has had, or could  reasonably be expected to have,  individually  or in the
aggregate,  a Material Adverse Effect on the Company, and the Company shall have
delivered  to the  Purchaser  a  certificate,  dated the Closing  Date,  to such
effect.

     5.10  Governmental  and Other Approvals and Consents.  All governmental and
other consents and approvals,  if any,  necessary to permit the  consummation of
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the absence of which would have
a Material Adverse Effect on the Company, shall have been received.

     5.11  State Securities Permit.  Purchaser shall have received all necessary
states  securities  permits or other  authorizations  or confirmations as to the
availability  of an exemption from  registration  of the Purchaser  Common Stock
under the North Carolina  Securities Act and Section  3(a)(10) of the Securities
Act, and no  proceedings  shall be pending,  or to the  knowledge of  Purchaser,
threatened  in  writing  by  any  securities   administration   to  suspend  the
effectiveness  of such exemption for the issuance of the Purchaser  Common Stock
in the Merger.  Without limiting the foregoing,  the North Carolina Secretary of
State or her delegate (the "Administrator") shall have issued an Order approving
the fairness of the terms and  conditions  of the  Agreement and the issuance of
the Purchaser Common Stock in connection  therewith after a hearing conducted in
accordance with Section 78A-30 of the General Statutes of North Carolina.

                                       29
<PAGE>
     5.12  Employment and Consulting  Agreements.  The person  identified in the
Consulting  Agreement  in the form of  Exhibit  F  attached  hereto  shall  have
executed and delivered to the Purchaser  such  Consulting  Agreement and each of
the persons identified in the Employment  Agreements in the form of Exhibit G-1,
G-2,  G-3 and  G-4,  respectively,  attached  hereto  shall  have  executed  and
delivered to the Purchaser  such  Employment  Agreements  (all such persons each
being  referred to as a "Key  Person",  and such  agreements  being  referred to
collectively as the "Employment and Consulting Agreements").

     5.13  Certain  Agreements.  Each Shareholder and holder of Stock Options as
listed on  Schedule  5.13 shall have  either  signed  the  Merger  Agreement  or
executed and  delivered an  agreement  having terms  identical to Section 7.1 of
this Agreement.

     5.14 Escrow Agreement. The Shareholders and the Escrow Agent (as defined in
the Escrow  Agreement)  shall have  executed and  delivered to the  Purchaser an
escrow  agreement in the form of Exhibit B, with such  modifications  thereto as
are  reasonably  requested by the Escrow  Agent prior to execution  thereof (the
"Escrow Agreement," as defined in Section 1.4 above).

     5.15  Shareholder  Approval.  The Merger,  this  Agreement  and the Plan of
Merger shall have been approved by the vote required of the  Shareholders of the
Company by applicable Law and the Company's  Organizational  Documents,  and the
Company shall have delivered to the Purchaser a  certificate,  dated the Closing
Date, to such effect.

     5.16 Dissenters.  As of the Effective Time, the holders of not more than 5%
of the Company Stock  (calculated on a fully-diluted  basis) shall have demanded
or otherwise purported to exercise their respective  dissenter's rights, if any,
pursuant to the California Code with respect to any shares of Company Stock.

     5.17 Plan of Merger. The Company shall have executed and delivered the Plan
of Merger to the Purchaser.

     5.18 Terms of Option  Agreements  and  Restricted  Shares.  Each  agreement
evidencing a Stock Option  outstanding under the Company Plan and each agreement
evidencing a Repurchase Right regarding a Restricted Share shall provide for and
permit  the  assumption  of  each  such  Stock  Option  and the  assignment  and
assumption of each such  Repurchase  Right by the Purchaser as  contemplated  by
Section 1.1 above;  no agreement or other action of the holder of any such Stock
Option or Restricted Share shall be necessary to effect the same (or the Company
shall have  delivered to the Purchaser  proof that each such  agreement has been
made or action  taken);  and the Company shall have delivered to the Purchaser a
certificate, dated the Closing Date, to such effect.

     5.19 Tax Matters.  The Purchaser shall have received assurances  reasonably
satisfactory to it that the Merger will qualify as a  reorganization  within the
meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.

     5.20 Resignations. The Purchaser shall have received a written resignation,
satisfactory  in form and  substance  to the  Purchaser,  from each  officer and
director of the Company  requested by the Purchaser to resign on or prior to the
Closing Date.

                                       30
<PAGE>
     5.21  Intra-Company  Debt. All indebtedness,  other than travel and similar
advances outstanding in the ordinary course of business, of the employees of the
Company to the Company, shall have been repaid in full.

     5.22 Current Employees.

          (a) All of the  employees  listed in  Schedule  5.22(a)  hereto  shall
     continue to be employees of the Company,  and none shall have  expressed or
     communicated  to the  Company  any  grievance  or any  intent  to  leave or
     contemplation of leaving the Company's employ.

          (b) At least ninety percent (90%) of the employees  listed in Schedule
     5.22(b)  hereto shall  continue to be  employees  of the Company,  and such
     ninety  percent  (90%)  of such  employees  shall  not  have  expressed  or
     communicated   to  the  Company  any   grievance  or  intent  to  leave  or
     contemplation of leaving the Company's employ.

     5.23 Release of Security  Interests.  The guarantors of the Bank Loan shall
have executed and  delivered to the Purchaser a release of the related  security
interests in form and substance reasonably  satisfactory to the Purchaser,  upon
payment of the Bank Loan in accordance with Section 6.10.

     5.24  Holders  of  Unexercised   Options.   Each  holder  of   outstanding,
unexercised  Stock  Options  shall have executed and delivered to the Company an
instrument in the form agreed to by the Purchaser and the Company on the date of
this Agreement regarding the tax treatment of such Stock Options.

     5.25  Restricted Shares.  The Company shall have delivered to the Purchaser
(i) evidence  reasonably  satisfactory to the Purchaser that each Person that at
any time received Restricted Shares timely filed an election under Section 83(b)
of the  Code  with  respect  to such  Restricted  Shares  or (ii) an  instrument
executed and delivered by each such Person with respect to the  consequences  of
the failure by such Person to file timely such election,  including, in form and
substance reasonably  satisfactory to the Purchaser a release of the Company and
addressing  payment of any tax  obligations  and such other matters  required by
Purchaser.


                                   ARTICLE VI
                     CONDITIONS TO THE COMPANY'S OBLIGATIONS

     The  Company's  obligations  to engage in the Merger are  conditioned  upon
satisfaction,  on or  prior  to the  Closing  Date,  of  each  of the  following
conditions:

     6.1  Truth of  Representations  and  Warranties.  The  representations  and
warranties of the Purchaser and Merger Sub contained in this  Agreement that are
qualified  by  reference  to  materiality  shall  be true and  correct,  and the
representations  and  warranties  that  are not so  qualified  shall be true and
correct in all  material  respects,  on and as of the Closing Date with the same
effect as though such  representations and warranties had been made on and as of
such date, and the Purchaser  shall have delivered to the Company a certificate,
dated the Closing Date, to such effect.

                                       31
<PAGE>
     6.2 Good Standing and Other Certificates.

          (a) Purchaser. The Purchaser shall have delivered to the Company (i) a
     copy of the Purchaser's Articles of Incorporation, including all amendments
     thereto,  certified by the  Secretary of State of North  Carolina as of the
     Closing Date or any of the five preceding business days, (ii) a certificate
     from  the  Secretary  of State of North  Carolina  to the  effect  that the
     Purchaser exists in North Carolina and listing all charter documents of the
     Purchaser  on file as of the  Closing  Date  or any of the  five  preceding
     business days, (iii) a copy of the bylaws of the Purchaser, certified by an
     officer of the  Purchaser  as being true and  correct  and in effect on the
     Closing Date, and (iv) a copy of  resolutions,  certified as of the Closing
     Date by an officer of the  Purchaser,  adopted by the Board of Directors of
     the Purchaser and  authorizing  the execution and delivery by the Purchaser
     of  this  Agreement  and the  other  Transaction  Documents  to  which  the
     Purchaser is a party,  the  performance by the Purchaser of its obligations
     hereunder  and  thereunder  and the  consummation  by the  Purchaser of the
     transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.

          (b) Merger Sub.  Merger Sub shall have  delivered to the Company (i) a
     copy of Merger Sub's  Articles of  Incorporation,  including all amendments
     thereto,  certified by the  Secretary of State of North  Carolina as of the
     Closing Date or any of the five preceding business days, (ii) a certificate
     from the Secretary of State of North Carolina to the effect that Merger Sub
     exists in North Carolina and listing all charter documents of Merger Sub on
     file as of the Closing  Date or any of the five  preceding  business  days,
     (iii) a copy of the bylaws of Merger Sub, certified by an officer of Merger
     Sub as being true and correct and in effect on the Closing Date, and (iv) a
     copy of  resolutions,  certified  as of the  Closing  Date by an officer of
     Merger Sub, adopted by the Board of Directors and shareholder of Merger Sub
     and  authorizing the execution and delivery by Merger Sub of this Agreement
     and the other  Transaction  Documents to which  Merger Sub is a party,  the
     performance by Merger Sub of its  obligations  hereunder and thereunder and
     the consummation by Merger Sub of the transactions  contemplated hereby and
     thereby.

     6.3  Performance of Agreements.  All of the agreements of the Purchaser and
Merger Sub to be performed  on or before the Closing Date  pursuant to the terms
hereof  shall  have  been  duly  performed  in all  material  respects,  and the
Purchaser  shall have delivered to the Company a certificate,  dated the Closing
Date, to such effect.

     6.4  Opinion of Purchaser's Counsel. The Purchaser shall have furnished the
Principal  Shareholders  with an opinion,  dated and as of the Closing  Date, of
Smith,  Anderson,  Blount,  Dorsett,  Mitchell & Jernigan,  L.L.P.,  in the form
attached as Exhibit H.

     6.5  State Securities  Permit.  Purchaser shall have received all necessary
states  securities  permits or other  authorizations  or confirmations as to the
availability  of an exemption from  registration  of the Purchaser  Common Stock
under the North Carolina  Securities Act and Section  3(a)(10) of the Securities
Act, and no  proceedings  shall be pending,  or to the  knowledge of  Purchaser,
threatened  in  writing  by  any  securities   administration   to  suspend  the
effectiveness  of such exemption for the issuance of the Purchaser  Common Stock
in the Merger.  Without  limiting the foregoing,  the  Administrator  shall have
issued an Order  approving  the  fairness  of the terms  and  conditions  of the
Agreement and the issuance of the Purchaser Common Stock in connection therewith
after a hearing  conducted  in  accordance  with  Section  78A-30 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina.

                                       32
<PAGE>
     6.6  Governmental  and Other Approvals and Consents.  All  governmental and
other  consents and  approvals  concerning  the Purchaser or Merger Sub, if any,
necessary to permit the  consummation of the  transactions  contemplated by this
Agreement shall have been received,  and all applicable waiting periods (and any
extensions  thereof)  under the HSR Act shall  have  expired or  otherwise  been
terminated satisfactorily to the Company.

     6.7  Shareholder  Approval.  The  holders  of a majority  of the  Company's
outstanding voting shares, and the holders of a majority of the shares of Series
A Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class, shall have approved the Merger in
accordance with the California Code.

     6.8  Plan of Merger. The  Purchaser  and Merger Sub shall have executed and
delivered the Plan of Merger to the Company.

     6.9  Tax Opinion.  The Company shall have received a written opinion of the
Company's  legal counsel,  Riordan & McKinzie,  dated as of the Closing Date, to
the effect that the Merger will constitute a  reorganization  within the meaning
of Section 368(a) of the Code,  and such opinion shall not have been  withdrawn.
In rendering such opinion,  counsel shall be entitled to rely upon,  among other
things,  reasonable  assumptions and  representations by the parties;  provided,
however, that if Riordan & McKinzie does not render such opinion, this condition
shall nonetheless be satisfied if Smith, Anderson,  Blount, Dorsett,  Mitchell &
Jernigan, LLP, or other counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Company,  renders
such opinion in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company.

     6.10  Bank Loan.  Purchaser shall pay the Bank Loan at Closing  (subject to
Section 4.1), and deliver, or caused to be delivered, to the Company evidence of
such payment.


                                   ARTICLE VII
                 CERTAIN COVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES

     7.1 Non-Competition; Non-Interference. Each Principal Shareholder listed on
Schedule  5.13  agrees,  in partial  consideration  for the  performance  by the
Purchaser and Merger Sub of the transactions  contemplated by this Agreement and
in recognition of the fact that such  transactions  reflect the  acquisition for
value by the Purchaser and Merger Sub of the Company and its rights,  assets and
liabilities, that such Principal Shareholder shall not:

          (a) from the Closing  Date until the second (2nd)  anniversary  of the
     Closing Date, directly or indirectly, as an officer, director, shareholder,
     partner, associate, owner, employee, consultant, or otherwise, become or be
     interested in or associated with, work for and/or assist (including without
     limitation  participating  in  academic  or other  research  for the direct
     benefit  of,  or  pursuant  to an  arrangement  under  which  rights in the
     products  of such  research  are held by) any  other  corporation,  firm or
     business  engaged in the same or a competitive  business with the Company's
     or the Purchaser's  business, as conducted as of the date of this Agreement
     or at any time prior to the  expiration  of the second  anniversary  of the
     Closing Date,  including,  without  limitation,  any  Competing  Activities
     (defined below),  in a capacity  connected with such entities'  competitive
     activities  in any  county of any state of the  United  States,  any of the
     United States or any other nation in which the Company or the Purchaser has
     an office or does business  (directly or indirectly) or in any geographical
     area in which the Company or the  Purchaser  is engaged in,  soliciting  or
     doing  business.  For purposes of this  subsection  (a), direct or indirect
     ownership of not more than one percent (1%) of the

                                       33
<PAGE>
     issued  and  outstanding  stock of a  corporation,  the shares of which are
     regularly   traded   on  a   national   securities   exchange   or  in  the
     over-the-counter  market,  shall  not be deemed  to be a  violation  of the
     preceding  sentence.  For  purposes  of  this  subsection  (a),  "Competing
     Activities"   shall   mean   the   development,   manufacture,   marketing,
     distribution  or sale of,  or  research  directed  to,  Group  III  nitride
     materials or devices fabricated on or from such materials;

          (b) from the Closing  Date until the second (2nd)  anniversary  of the
     Closing Date, directly or indirectly, solicit, interfere with the Company's
     or the Purchaser's  relationships  with, or entice away from the Company or
     the Purchaser any customer,  supplier,  person,  firm or corporation who or
     which  has,  at any  time  during  the  eighteen  (18)  months  immediately
     preceding  the date of this  Agreement  or at any time  during  which  such
     Shareholder  was  an  employee  of or  consultant  to the  Purchaser,  done
     business  with the  Company or the  Purchaser,  or offer  employment  to or
     procure  employment  for any person who has at any time during the eighteen
     (18) months immediately preceding the date of this Agreement or at any time
     during  which such  Shareholder  was an  employee of or  consultant  to the
     Purchaser been employed or engaged by the Company or the Purchaser;

          (c) use for any purpose or knowingly divulge,  directly or indirectly,
     to any entity or person, any material information concerning the Company or
     the  Purchaser's  device  designs,   device  structures,   package  design,
     epitaxial equipment and processes and other "know-how", processes, methods,
     research, development or marketing techniques, programs, standard operating
     procedures  and practices,  materials or plans,  customer or vendor list or
     any other of the Company's or the Purchaser's  trade secrets,  confidential
     information,  price lists or pricing policies,  except information which is
     (i) in the public domain or (ii) becomes public knowledge  through no fault
     of such Principal Shareholder or (iii) is required to be disclosed by court
     order or other  government  process or the disclosure of which is necessary
     to enable such Principal  Shareholder to comply with applicable law. In the
     event that such Principal  Shareholder shall be required to make disclosure
     pursuant to the provisions of clause (iii) of the preceding sentence,  such
     Principal  Shareholder promptly shall notify the Surviving  Corporation and
     the Purchaser and take, at the expense of the Surviving  Corporation or the
     Purchaser,  all  reasonably  necessary  steps  requested  by the  Surviving
     Corporation  or the  Purchaser to defend  against the  enforcement  of such
     court  order  or  other  government  process,   and  permit  the  Surviving
     Corporation and the Purchaser to participate  with counsel of its choice in
     any proceeding relating to the enforcement thereof; or

          (d) take or engage in any form or manner, directly or indirectly,  any
     action  which  directly or  indirectly  is  materially  detrimental  to the
     goodwill,  name, business relationships and prospects,  or operation of the
     Company or the  Purchaser  or is  otherwise  intended  to be adverse to the
     Company or the Purchaser.

     It is the  desire  and intent of the  parties  to this  Agreement  that the
provisions  of  this  Section  7.1  shall  be  enforced  to the  fullest  extent
permissible  under the laws and public policies applied in each  jurisdiction in
which  enforcement is sought.  If any  particular  provisions or portion of this
Section 7.1 shall be  adjudicated to be invalid or  unenforceable,  this Section
shall  be  deemed  amended  to  delete   therefrom  such  provision  or  portion
adjudicated  to be invalid or  unenforceable,  such amendment to apply only with
respect to the operation of such Section in the particular jurisdiction in which
such adjudication is made.

     The parties  recognize that the performance of the  obligations  under this
Section  7.1 by  each of the  Principal  Shareholders  is  special,  unique  and
extraordinary in character, and

                                       34
<PAGE>
that in the  event  of the  breach  by any such  Shareholder  of the  terms  and
conditions of this Section 7.1 to be performed, the Purchaser shall be entitled,
if it so  elects,  to  institute  and  prosecute  proceedings  in any  court  of
competent  jurisdiction,  either in law or in equity,  to obtain damages for any
breach of this Section 7.1, to enforce the specific  performance thereof by such
Shareholder or to enjoin such Shareholder from performing  services for any such
other person, firm or corporation.

     For purposes of this Section 7.1 only, the term  "Purchaser"  shall include
the  Purchaser  and all  affiliates  of the  Purchaser,  including the Surviving
Corporation, and the term "Company" shall include the Company and all affiliates
of the Company.

     7.2  Fairness Hearing  Application.  Each of the parties to this  Agreement
shall, and shall cause their Affiliates to, use all reasonable  efforts to cause
the issuance of the Purchaser Common Stock to be exempt from registration  under
applicable federal and state securities Laws by filing as soon as practicable an
application with the Secretary of State of the State of North Carolina  pursuant
to N.C.  Gen.  Stat.  Section  78A-30  requesting  a hearing  upon the terms and
conditions of the Merger to be held as soon as  practicable  after the filing of
such application and taking all actions  necessary or appropriate to comply with
the  requirements  set forth  therein.  The Company and the  Shareholders  shall
furnish to Purchaser the information to be included in such application. None of
the  parties to this  Agreement  shall make at such  hearing,  or include in any
information  supplied with such application or distributed at such hearing,  any
untrue  statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required
to be stated  therein or necessary in order to make the statements  therein,  in
light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.

     7.3 Pooling Restrictions and Related Matters.

          (a)  Pooling of  Interests  Accounting.  Neither  the  Company nor any
     Shareholder  shall take, or fail to take, any action which would disqualify
     the  transactions  contemplated by this Agreement from pooling of interests
     accounting  treatment by the Purchaser or to be treated as a reorganization
     within the  meaning of Section  368(a) of the Code.  Without  limiting  the
     foregoing,  no  Shareholder  shall sell,  transfer,  pledge,  or  otherwise
     dispose of such  Shareholder's  interests  in or reduce such  Shareholder's
     risk  relative to any of the shares of Purchaser  Common Stock to be issued
     to such Shareholder pursuant to Section 1.1 above commencing as required by
     pooling of interests  accounting and continuing  until the Purchaser  shall
     have  published  financial  results  covering  at least 30 days of combined
     operations  of  the  Purchaser   and  the   Surviving   Corporation   after
     consummation of the Merger.

          (b) Stop  Transfer  Order.  The  Purchaser  shall  not be bound by any
     attempted  transfer,  sale or other  disposition in violation of any of the
     restrictions  set forth in this  Section 7.3,  and the  Purchaser  shall be
     entitled to deliver to the Purchaser's  transfer agent an appropriate  stop
     transfer  order in  connection  therewith,  pursuant to which such transfer
     agent shall refrain from registering any such attempted  transfer,  sale or
     disposition.

          (c) Certificate Legends.  The certificates  representing any shares of
     the  Purchaser's  Common Stock issued to a Rule 145  Affiliate set forth on
     Schedule  2.35  pursuant  to  Section  1.1  above  shall  bear  legends  in
     substantially the following form:

         "The shares  represented by this  certificate were issued pursuant to a
         business combination  accounted for as a "pooling of interests" and may
         not be sold, nor may the

                                       35
<PAGE>
         owner thereof reduce his risks relative  thereto in any way, until such
         time as Cree, Inc. ("Cree") has published financial results covering at
         least 30 days of combined  operations  after the effective  date of the
         exchange  through  which the  business  combination  was  effected.  In
         addition,  the shares  represented by this certificate may not be sold,
         transferred or otherwise disposed of except or unless (1) covered by an
         effective  registration  statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as
         amended, or an exemption therefrom,  or (2) in accordance with Rule 145
         (in the case of shares issued to an individual  who is not an affiliate
         of Cree).

         The  certificates  issued  representing  any shares of Purchaser Common
         Stock to a person  who is not a Rule 145  Affiliate  shall not bear any
         restrictive  legend so long as the exemption under Section  3(a)(10) of
         the Securities Act with respect to the issuance of the Purchaser Common
         Stock is available at the Effective Time.

     7.4  Compliance with Employment and Consulting Agreements.  Each of the Key
Persons shall comply in all respects with any of the  Employment  and Consulting
Agreements to which he is a party.

     7.5  Supplemental Disclosure. Subject to Section 4.3, each party shall give
prompt  notice to the other of (i) the  occurrence,  or  non-occurrence,  of any
event the occurrence,  or  nonoccurrence,  of which would be likely to cause (x)
any  representation  or warranty  contained  in this  Agreement  to be untrue or
inaccurate  or (y)  any  covenant,  condition  or  agreement  contained  in this
Agreement not to be complied with or satisfied and (ii) any failure of the other
party to comply with or satisfy  any  covenant,  condition  or  agreement  to be
complied with or satisfied by it hereunder; provided, however, that the delivery
of any notice  pursuant  to this  Section  7.5 shall not have any effect for the
purpose of determining the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Article V
of this Agreement or otherwise limit or affect the remedies available  hereunder
to any party.

     7.6 Employees; Continued Operations.

          (a) Prior to the Closing, the Company shall use its reasonable efforts
     to ensure that each  person who is an officer or  employee of the  Company,
     and each  person  who is a  consultant  of the  Company,  shall,  after the
     Closing,  remain  an  employee  or  consultant,  as the case may be, of the
     Company,  until such person's employment or consulting  arrangement expires
     or is  terminated  in accordance  with its terms.  Nothing  herein shall be
     deemed  or  construed  to give  rise to a right  of  employment.  As of the
     Closing, the Purchaser will make available to employees who continue in the
     employ,  or become  employed  by,  the  Company,  terms and  conditions  of
     employment,  including  employee benefit plans, that, taken as a whole, are
     comparable to the terms and  conditions of employment,  including  employee
     benefit  plans,  provided to employees of the Company as of the date hereof
     and which are no less favorable  than such  employees'  current  employment
     terms;  provided,  however,  that the terms and conditions of such employee
     benefit  plans may be varied or  eliminated  at any time  subsequent to the
     first  anniversary  of the  Closing  Date  in a  manner  determined  by the
     Compensation  Committee of the Purchaser.  Each such employee or consultant
     shall  receive  credit  for his or her  service  with the  Company  for all
     purposes under such employee benefit plans.

          (b) It is the present  intent of the parties that, as of and after the
     Closing,  the  Purchaser  will  conduct  the  business  of the  Company  as
     described in Schedule 7.6.

                                       36
<PAGE>
          (c) The provisions of this Section 7.6 represent the present intent of
     the Purchaser, and the Purchaser will exercise good faith efforts to comply
     with the  provisions of this Section 7.6.  Notwithstanding  anything to the
     contrary  contained  herein,  it is understood  that the Purchaser  retains
     discretion   to  manage  its   business  in  the  best   interests  of  its
     shareholders,  and that good faith modifications of or variances from these
     provisions  in  the  exercise  of  such   discretion  are  appropriate  and
     permitted.

     7.7  Form S-8.  Promptly after the Effective Date,  Purchaser shall use its
reasonable  best  efforts to file a  Registration  Statement on Form S-8 (or any
successor  form) under the  Securities  Act,  covering  the shares of  Purchaser
Common Stock issuable  pursuant to  outstanding  Stock Options under the Company
Plan  assumed  by  Purchaser  pursuant  to  Section  1.1(c)(iii).   As  soon  as
practicable after the date hereof and prior to the Closing, the Company will use
its  reasonable  best efforts to cause all holders of assumed  Stock  Options to
agree in writing not to  exercise  their  options  until  Purchaser  has filed a
registration  statement on Form S-8 in accordance with this section. The Company
shall   cooperate  with  and  assist   Purchaser  in  the  preparation  of  such
registration statement.

     7.8  Listing of Additional  Shares.  Promptly  following  the date  hereof,
Purchaser shall use its reasonable best efforts to file with the Nasdaq National
Market,  to the extent required,  a Notification  Form for Listing of Additional
Shares  with  respect to the shares of  Purchaser  Common  Stock  issuable  upon
conversion  of the Company  Stock as a result of the Merger and upon exercise of
Stock  Options and Warrants to acquire  Company  Stock assumed by Purchaser as a
result of the Merger.

     7.9  401(k) Plan.  Prior to Closing, the Company's Board of Directors shall
take all necessary and  appropriate  actions to approve the  termination  of the
Company's  401(k) plan so that,  after the Closing,  Purchaser may complete such
termination  and  provide  for (i) a  rollover  of the  assets  of such  plan to
Purchaser's 401(k) plan or (ii) the distribution of the assets of such plan in a
lump  sum  form  to  the  plan's  participants,  as  may  be  directed  by  such
participants.

     7.10  Dissenters.  During the period from the date of this Agreement to the
Closing Date, the Company (and its officers, directors,  employees,  affiliates,
agents and  representatives)  shall comply with all provisions of the California
Code  relating  to  dissenters'  rights  applicable  to  the  Merger  and  other
transactions contemplated hereby.

     7.11  Shareholder Meeting; Shareholder Approval; Information Statement.

          (a) The Company shall,  subject to and in accordance  with  applicable
     Law and the Company's Organizational  Documents, duly call, give notice of,
     convene  and hold a meeting  of the  holders of  Company  Common  Stock and
     Company  Preferred  Stock,  voting as a  separate  class,  as  promptly  as
     practicable  after  the  date  of  this  Agreement,   for  the  purpose  of
     considering  and voting to approve  and adopt this  Agreement,  the Plan of
     Merger  and  the  transactions   contemplated   hereby  and  thereby.   The
     shareholder  vote required for the adoption and approval of this Agreement,
     the Plan of Merger and the  transactions  contemplated  hereby and thereby,
     shall  be the  vote  required  by the  California  Code  and the  Company's
     Organizational  Documents.  The Board of  Directors  of the  Company  shall
     recommend to the  Shareholders  that they vote in favor of the approval and
     adoption  of this  Agreement,  the  Plan  of  Merger  and the  transactions
     contemplated hereby and thereby and take all action reasonably necessary to
     solicit and obtain such approval.

                                       37
<PAGE>
          (b)  In  connection  with  such  shareholder   meeting,   as  soon  as
     practicable after the date of this Agreement,  the Company shall prepare an
     information statement (the "Information Statement") for distribution to its
     Shareholders.  The Information  Statement shall be subject to review by the
     Purchaser.  The  Company  will  cooperate  with  the  Purchaser  so  as  to
     coordinate the distribution on a timely basis of the Information  Statement
     with any materials  related to the fairness  hearing referred to in Section
     7.2.

     7.12 Director and Officer Indemnification. Purchaser agrees that all rights
to  indemnification  now  existing  in favor of any  director  or officer of the
Surviving  Corporation,  as provided in its Articles of Incorporation or bylaws,
for  acts or  omissions  occurring  at or  prior to the  Effective  Time,  shall
continue  in full force and effect and that  Purchaser  shall not cause or allow
the Surviving Corporation to modify such rights to indemnification.


                                  ARTICLE VIII
                 SURVIVAL OF REPRESENTATIONS; INDEMNITY; SET-OFF

     8.1  Survival  of  Representations.   The  respective  representations  and
warranties  of the  Company,  the  Shareholders,  the  Purchaser  and Merger Sub
contained in this Agreement or in any schedule attached hereto shall survive the
consummation of the Merger and the other  transactions  contemplated  hereby and
shall  remain in full  force and effect  notwithstanding  any  investigation  or
examination  of, or knowledge  with respect to, the subject matter thereof by or
on behalf of the Company, the Shareholders,  Merger Sub or the Purchaser, as the
case may be, until the first  anniversary of the Closing Date (the period ending
on such date is referred to as the  "Representations  Period"),  except that (i)
the  representation  and warranty in Section 2.20(i)(i) and (ii) shall expire at
and as of the  Effective  Time,  and (ii) such  representations  and  warranties
(including Section 2.20(i)(i) and (ii)) shall survive  indefinitely in the event
of fraud or intentional  misrepresentation  with respect  thereto.  No claim for
indemnification  pursuant to Section 8.2(a) or (f) based on an alleged breach of
any such  representation  or warranty may be brought after the expiration of the
Representations  Period,  except  that  claims made in good faith in writing and
setting forth in reasonable detail the claim prior to such expiration, including
without  limitation  claims  made with  respect to actions  anticipated  in good
faith,  regardless  of whether any action or demand has in fact been  commenced,
shall be  deemed to have been  brought  prior to the end of the  Representations
Period (it being understood, without limitation, that any and all Losses arising
after the expiration of the  Representations  Period shall be  recoverable  upon
notice properly given prior to the expiration of the  Representations  Period in
accordance with this Section 8.1).

     8.2 Indemnification.

          (a) Subject to the  limitations  set forth in this Article  VIII,  the
     Shareholders  shall  indemnify,  defend and hold  harmless  the  Purchaser,
     Merger Sub and their  Affiliates  (including the Company after the Merger),
     and all of their respective officers, directors,  employees (other than the
     Key Persons),  agents and shareholders (other than the Shareholders) (each,
     an "Indemnitee") to the fullest extent permitted in law or equity, from and
     against any and all losses, claims, actions,  damages,  liabilities,  costs
     and expenses  (including  reasonable  attorneys'  fees and expenses) net of
     actual  tax  benefits,  and net of  actual  cash  insurance  recoveries  or
     recoveries  from  indemnities  of third  parties  (collectively,  "Losses")
     relating   to  or   arising   from   or  in   connection   with   (i)   any
     misrepresentation,  breach  or  violation  of,  or  default  in  any of the
     representations, warranties, covenants, or agreements given or made by

                                       38
<PAGE>
     the Company or any  Shareholder  in or pursuant to this Agreement or any of
     the other  Transaction  Documents  or in any other  agreement  or officer's
     certificate  delivered to the  Purchaser or Merger Sub in  connection  with
     this  Agreement,  (ii)  the  enforcement  by the  Purchaser  of its  rights
     pursuant to this Section  8.2,  including  any  litigation,  proceeding  or
     investigation  relating thereto, and (iii) any matter described in Schedule
     8.2. The Purchaser  shall have no obligation to seek an insurance  recovery
     or third party  indemnification  and if the Purchaser does so and obtains a
     recovery, the Purchaser's indemnity claim shall not be offset to the extent
     of the Purchaser's  expenses in obtaining such recovery and an amount equal
     to anticipated premium increases for the following three (3) years.

          (b) Except with respect to any misrepresentation or non-fulfillment of
     the  representations and warranties in Section 2.1 above, any breach of any
     post-Closing covenant, or any Losses resulting from or arising out of fraud
     or other  intentional  or knowing  misconduct or  misrepresentation,  as to
     which (in each case) the  Shareholders  shall be liable to the  Indemnities
     without  limitation,  notwithstanding  the foregoing  provisions of Section
     8.2(a),  (i)  recovery  from the  Escrow  Fund  shall be the sole  monetary
     recourse of any  Indemnitee for claims under Section  8.2(a),  and (ii) the
     Indemnitees shall not be entitled to  indemnification  under Section 8.2(a)
     above for any amount  unless and until the  aggregate  of all  amounts  for
     which the Indemnitees would otherwise be entitled to be indemnified exceeds
     $500,000 (in the aggregate), all amounts in excess of which the Indemnitees
     shall  be  indemnified  for as  provided  in this  Section  8.2;  provided,
     however,  that any amounts  arising under Schedule 8.2 shall be immediately
     subject to a claim of indemnity  hereunder  and shall not be subject to the
     $500,000  threshold  set  forth  in this  Section  8.2(b)(ii).  Solely  for
     purposes of determining  whether the aggregate of all amounts for which the
     Indemnitees would otherwise be entitled to be indemnified exceeds $500,000,
     the  amount of each  indemnifiable  claim and the  aggregate  amount of all
     indemnifiable  claims shall not be limited by the  definition of "material"
     in Section  10.1(i) below, or the use of the term "material" or its related
     forms in any  representations  or  warranties.  Accordingly,  indemnifiable
     claims may consist of Losses  (whether  or not arising  from a breach of an
     individual   representation,   warranty,   covenant  or   indemnity)   that
     individually  or in the  aggregate  do  not  constitute  material  amounts,
     provided such amounts in the aggregate exceed  $500,000.  In no event shall
     the  indemnification  of Purchaser by the Shareholders be deemed to include
     indemnification  against  potential third party claims described in Section
     2.20(i)(i) and (ii); provided,  however, that for any such claims resulting
     from or arising out of the  Company's or the  Shareholders'  fraud or other
     intentional or knowing misrepresentation, the Shareholders shall be jointly
     and severally liable to the Indemnitees without limitation.

          (c) The obligations of the  Shareholders  under this Section 8.2 shall
     be secured pursuant to the Escrow Agreement.

          (d) As of and after the Closing, the Surviving  Corporation shall have
     no liability  under this  Agreement,  and no Shareholder  shall threaten or
     bring any claim or action whatsoever against the Surviving  Corporation for
     contribution  to any  amounts  payable  under  this  Section  8.2  by  such
     Shareholder.

          (e) The obligations to indemnify, defend and hold harmless pursuant to
     this  Section  8.2  shall  survive  the  consummation  of the  transactions
     contemplated by this Agreement.

                                       39
<PAGE>
          (f)  After  the  Closing, subject  to  Section  8.1,  Purchaser  shall
     indemnify  and hold harmless the  Shareholders  from and against any Losses
     relating to, arising from or in connection with (i) any  misrepresentation,
     breach  or  violation  of  or  default  in  any  of  the   representations,
     warranties,  covenants or  agreements  given or made by Purchaser or Merger
     Sub in this Agreement and (ii) the enforcement of the Shareholder's  rights
     under this Section 8.2(f). Except in the case of fraud or other intentional
     or knowing misconduct or misrepresentation,  the maximum aggregate recourse
     by the Company and the Shareholders  (collectively)  on account of breaches
     of this  Agreement  by the  Purchaser  or Merger  Sub shall not  exceed the
     amount  determined by multiplying  ten percent (10%) by the aggregate value
     (calculated  with  reference to the closing  prices on the Closing Date) of
     the Purchaser  Common Stock issued in the Merger at the Effective Time, and
     no claim  shall be made  unless the  aggregate  losses of the  Shareholders
     exceeds  $500,000,  and only to the  extent  of such  excess.  No claim for
     indemnification  pursuant to this Section  8.2(f) may be brought  after the
     expiration of the Representations  Period,  except that claims made in good
     faith in writing and setting forth in reasonable  detail the claim prior to
     such expiration,  including without  limitation claims made with respect to
     actions  anticipated  in good  faith,  regardless  of whether any action or
     demand  has in fact been  commenced,  shall be deemed to have been  brought
     prior to the end of the  Representations  Period.  No claim  for  indemnity
     shall be made without the consent of the  Shareholder  Representative,  who
     shall have the power to settle or otherwise  resolve any claim on behalf of
     the Shareholders. In no event shall the Purchaser be obligated to indemnify
     the  Shareholders  for the  reasonable  fees and  expenses of more than one
     counsel for all Shareholders (and local counsel, if appropriate).


                                   ARTICLE IX
                                   TERMINATION

     9.1 Termination.

          (a) The parties  hereto shall be entitled to terminate  this Agreement
     as follows,  provided that no such termination shall limit or terminate any
     liability  of one party to another  for any  breach  hereof,  and  provided
     further  that the  provisions  of Sections  7.1(c)  (confidentiality),  8.2
     (indemnification) and 10.7 (publicity) shall survive any such termination:

               (i) the parties  hereto may  terminate  this  Agreement by mutual
          written consent at any time;

               (ii) the Purchaser may terminate this Agreement by written notice
          to the Company on or prior to the  Closing  Date if the Company or any
          Shareholder   shall  have   breached  in  any  material   respect  any
          representation,  warranty,  covenant or  agreement  contained  in this
          Agreement  and  failed to cure the same  within  ten (10)  days  after
          written notice thereof from the Purchaser;

               (iii) the Company may terminate  this Agreement by written notice
          to the  Purchaser  on or prior to the  Closing  Date if the  Purchaser
          shall  have  breached  in any  material  respect  any  representation,
          warranty, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement and failed
          to cure the same  within ten (10) days after  written  notice  thereof
          from the Company;

                                       40
<PAGE>
               (iv) the Purchaser or the Company may terminate this Agreement by
          written  notice to the other if the  consummation  of the Merger shall
          not have  occurred  on or before May 31, 2000  (provided,  that if the
          Secretary  of State of North  Carolina  shall not have issued a permit
          with respect to the fairness of the Merger to the  Shareholders of the
          Company  prior to such date,  the date shall be  extended  to June 30,
          2000;  provided,  however,  that the right to terminate this Agreement
          pursuant to this  subsection  (iv) shall not be  available  to a party
          whose (or whose affiliate's)  action or failure to act shall have been
          a principal cause of or resulted in the failure of the Merger to occur
          on or before such date; and

               (v) the Purchaser or the Company may terminate  this Agreement by
          written  notice to the other parties hereto on or prior to the Closing
          Date if any court or other  governmental  instrumentality of competent
          jurisdiction shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any
          other  action  restraining,  enjoining or  otherwise  prohibiting  the
          transactions  contemplated by this Agreement which order or injunction
          shall not have been lifted within ten (10) days of issuance thereof.

          (b) Notwithstanding  approval of this Agreement and the Plan of Merger
     by the shareholders of Merger Sub and the Company, the parties hereto agree
     that termination of this Agreement shall constitute mutual  termination and
     abandonment  of the Plan of  Merger  and that,  upon any such  termination,
     neither  Merger  Sub nor the  Company  shall  have any  further  rights  or
     obligations  under or arising out of the Plan of Merger;  provided  that in
     the event of termination under clauses  9.1(a)(ii) or (iii), no party shall
     be relieved of liability for its breach of this Agreement.


                                    ARTICLE X
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

     10.1 Definitions of Certain Terms. As used in this Agreement, the following
capitalized terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:

          (a) "Casualty"  shall mean any fire,  explosion,  accident,  casualty,
     labor trouble,  flood, drought, riot, storm,  condemnation or act of God or
     other public force.

          (b) "Code" shall mean the United States Internal  Revenue Code of 1986
     and all rules and regulations  promulgated thereunder from time to time, in
     each case as amended.

          (c)  "Contract"  shall  mean  any  contract,   agreement,   indenture,
     instrument or other binding commitment or arrangement of any kind.

          (d) "Encumbrance" shall mean any lien, encumbrance, security interest,
     mortgage, pledge, lease, option, easement, servitude,  covenant, condition,
     restriction  under any Contract,  or other charge,  restriction or claim of
     any kind.

          (e) "ERISA" shall mean the Federal Employee Retirement Income Security
     Act of 1974 and all rules and regulations  promulgated thereunder from time
     to time, in each case as amended.

                                       41
<PAGE>
          (f) "Exchange Act" shall mean the federal  Securities  Exchange Act of
     1934 and all  rules and  regulations  promulgated  thereunder  from time to
     time, in each case as amended.

          (g) "HSR  Act"  shall  mean the  Federal  Hart-Scott-Rodino  Antitrust
     Improvements  Act  of  1976  and  all  rules  and  regulations  promulgated
     thereunder from time to time, in each case as amended.

          (h) "Law" shall mean any national,  federal,  state,  local or foreign
     law, rule, regulation, statute, ordinance, order, judgment, decree, permit,
     franchise,  license or other governmental restriction or requirement of any
     kind.

          (i) "Material  Adverse Effect" shall mean any material  adverse effect
     on the business,  financial condition,  results of operations, or prospects
     of the  affected  party,  including  without  limitation  any effect  which
     prevents or impairs materially such party's  performance of its obligations
     under, or the consummation of, this Agreement.  When the term "material" is
     used with reference to the Company,  a matter shall be deemed "material" if
     the matter involves or affects (i) in the case of Section 5.9, an amount or
     amounts in excess of $500,000  individually or in the aggregate and (ii) in
     all other  cases,  an amount in excess of  $25,000  individually  or in the
     aggregate with other like matters.

          (j)  "Organizational  Document" shall mean any certificate or articles
     of incorporation,  bylaw, board of directors' or shareholders'  resolution,
     or other  corporate  document or action  comparable to any of the foregoing
     currently in effect.

          (k)  "Permitted  Encumbrance"  shall mean such of the  following as to
     which no enforcement, collection, execution, levy or foreclosure proceeding
     shall have been commenced (except as otherwise  provided below):  (i) liens
     reflected in the Balance Sheet; (ii) liens consisting of zoning or planning
     restrictions,  easements,  permits and other restrictions or limitations on
     the use of real  property or  irregularities  in title thereto which do not
     detract  from the  value of, or impair  the use of,  such  property  by the
     Company in the  operation of its business;  (iii) liens for current  taxes,
     assessments or  governmental  charges or levies on property not yet due and
     delinquent  or that are  being  contested  in good  faith;  (iv)  statutory
     Encumbrances, such as materialmen's,  mechanics',  carriers', workmens' and
     repairmens' liens and other similar liens arising in the ordinary course of
     business for amounts that are not yet due and  delinquent or that are being
     contested  in good faith;  (v)  pledges or  deposits to secure  obligations
     under  workers'   compensation  laws  or  similar  legislation;   and  (vi)
     Encumbrances related to bank credit facilities,  capital lease obligations,
     obligations for borrowed money and purchase money mortgages and conditional
     sales contracts  entered into in the ordinary course of business which will
     be retired at Closing.

          (l) "Person" shall mean any  individual,  partnership,  joint venture,
     corporation, trust, limited liability company, unincorporated organization,
     government (or subdivision thereof) or other entity.

          (m)  "Securities  Act" shall mean the United States  Securities Act of
     1933 and all  rules and  regulations  promulgated  thereunder  from time to
     time, in each case as amended.

                                       42
<PAGE>
          (n) "Stock  Acquisition Right" shall mean any option,  warrant,  right
     (preemptive or otherwise),  call,  commitment,  conversion right,  right of
     exchange,  plan or  other  agreement  of any  character  providing  for the
     purchase, issuance or sale of any securities.

     10.2 Expenses. Each party hereto shall pay all of its own expenses relating
to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including without limitation
the fees and expenses of its respective counsel.

     10.3 Remedies Not  Exclusive.  Except as  specifically  provided in Section
8.2,  nothing in this Agreement  shall limit or restrict in any manner any other
rights or remedies  any party  hereto may have against any other party hereto at
law,  in equity or  otherwise,  including  without  limitation  any such  rights
pursuant  to the  Escrow  Agreement  or any of  the  Employment  and  Consulting
Agreements.

     10.4 Governing Law. The  interpretation and construction of this Agreement,
and all matters relating  hereto,  shall be governed by the laws of the State of
North  Carolina,  without  regard to the choice of law principles  thereof.  The
parties  acknowledge  and  agree  that  this  Agreement  is being  executed  and
delivered in North Carolina.

     10.5  Further  Assurances.  In  addition  to  the  actions,  documents  and
instruments  specifically  required by this  Agreement or any other  Transaction
Document to be taken or  delivered on or before the Closing Date or from time to
time thereafter,  each of the parties to this Agreement shall,  before and after
the Closing Date,  without  further  consideration,  take such other actions and
execute and deliver such other documents and instruments as another party hereto
reasonably  may  request  in  order  to  effect  and  perfect  the  transactions
contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents.

     10.6 Captions.  The Article and Section captions used in this Agreement are
for  reference  purposes  only and shall not in any way  affect  the  meaning or
interpretation of this Agreement.

     10.7  Publicity.  Except as otherwise  required by applicable law, no party
and no  affiliate  of any party shall issue any press  release or make any other
public statement relating to, connected with or arising out of this Agreement or
the matters  contained  herein without the other parties' prior written approval
of the contents and the manner of presentation and publication thereof.

     10.8  Notices.   Notice  or  other  communications  required  or  permitted
hereunder shall be sufficiently given if delivered in person or sent by telecopy
or by registered or certified mail or by recognized  overnight courier,  postage
prepaid, addressed as follows:

         If to the Purchaser or Merger Sub, to:

          Cree, Inc.
          4600 Silicon Drive
          Durham, North Carolina 27703
          Attention:  Adam H. Broome, General Counsel and Secretary


                                       43
<PAGE>
         with a copy to its counsel,

                   Smith, Anderson, Blount, Dorsett, Mitchell &
                    Jernigan, L.L.P.
                   2500 First Union Capitol Center
                   Raleigh, North Carolina 27601
                   Attention: Gerald F. Roach, Esq.

         If to the Company or any Shareholder, to:

                   Nitres, Inc.
                   5655 Lindero Canyon Road
                   Suite 404
                   Westlake Village, California 91362
                   Attention: Fred A. Blum

         with a copy to its counsel:

                   Riordan & McKinzie
                   300 South Grand Avenue, 29th Floor
                   Los Angeles, California 90071
                   Attention: Thomas A. Waldman, Esq.

or to such other  address or number as shall be furnished in writing by any such
party in such manner,  and such notice or communication  shall be deemed to have
been given as of the date so delivered, sent by telecopier or mailed.

     10.9  Recovery of Litigation Costs.  If any legal action or  arbitration or
other  proceeding is brought for the enforcement of this Agreement,  or based on
an alleged dispute,  breach, default or misrepresentation in connection with any
of the  provisions of the  Agreement,  the  successful  or  prevailing  party or
parties shall be entitled to recover reasonable  attorneys' fees and other costs
incurred in that action or proceeding,  in addition to any other relief to which
it or they may be entitled.

     10.10 Parties in Interest. This Agreement may not be transferred, assigned,
pledged or  hypothecated  by any party hereto  without the other  parties' prior
written  consent.  This  Agreement  shall be binding upon and shall inure to the
benefit  of  the  parties  hereto  and  their   respective   heirs,   executors,
administrators, successors and permitted assigns.

     10.11 Counterparts.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in  two  or  more
counterparts,  all of which taken together shall constitute one instrument. This
Agreement  may be executed  and  delivered  by  facsimile  or  telecopy  and any
signature delivered by such means shall be deemed an original.

     10.12 Entire Agreement.  This  Agreement,  including  the other  documents
referred to herein which form a part hereof,  contains the entire  understanding
of the parties  hereto with respect to the subject matter  contained  herein and
therein.  This  Agreement  supersedes all prior  agreements  and  understandings
between  the  parties  with  respect  to such  subject  matter,  other  than the
Confidentiality Agreement between the parties dated February 8, 2000, as

                                       44
<PAGE>
amended.  All exhibits and schedules  referred to in this Agreement are intended
to be and hereby are specifically made a part of this Agreement.

     10.13  Construction  of  Certain   Disclosures.   The  representations  and
warranties set forth in Articles II and III above, respectively, are cumulative.
The subject  matter  covered by any section of either such article  shall not be
exclusive as to such subject matter to the extent covered by another  section of
such article,  and the specificity of any  representation  or warranty shall not
affect or limit the generality of any other  representation  or warranty made or
given by the same party.

     10.14 Amendments.  This Agreement may be waived,  amended,  supplemented or
modified only by a written agreement executed by each of the parties hereto.

     10.15  Severability.  In case any provision in this Agreement shall be held
invalid, illegal or unenforceable,  the validity, legality and enforceability of
the  remaining  provisions  hereof  will not in any way be  affected or impaired
thereby.

     10.16  Third  Party  Beneficiaries.  Each party  hereto  intends  that this
Agreement  shall not  benefit  or  create  any right or cause of action in or on
behalf of any person or entity other than the parties hereto.

                        [signatures appear on next page]


                                       45
<PAGE>
                      [signature page to Merger Agreement]

     IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  Purchaser,  Merger  Sub,  the  Company  and the
Principal  Shareholders  have  caused  their  respective  names  to be  hereunto
subscribed   individually  or  by  their  respective   officers  thereunto  duly
authorized, as the case may be, all as of the day and year first above written.

                           CREE, INC.


                             By: /s/ F. Neal Hunter

                               -------------------------------------
                               F. Neal Hunter
                               Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


                           CRYSTAL ACQUISITION, INC.


                           By: /s/ Charles M. Swoboda
                               -------------------------------------
                               Charles M. Swoboda
                               President


                           NITRES, INC.


                           By: /s/ Fred A. Blum
                               -------------------------------------
                               Fred A. Blum
                               President and Chief Executive Officer

                       [signatures continue on next page]
<PAGE>
                      [signature page to Merger Agreement]

                             PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS

                          [signature lines to follow]
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>0003.txt
<DESCRIPTION>STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF PER SHARE EARNINGS
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 11.1


                       Statement Regarding Computation of Earnings Per Share
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             Year Ended
                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------
                                     June 25,     June 27,     June 28,      June 30,      June 30,
                                       2000         1999         1998          1997          1996
                                    ----------   ----------   ----------    ---------     ----------
<S>                                 <C>          <C>          <C>           <C>           <C>
Basic:
Weighted average common             32,965,000   29,015,000   27,726,000    26,911,000    23,652,000
   shares outstanding

Net income                          30,520,000   12,448,000    6,243,000     3,650,000       231,000

Net income per common share              $0.93        $0.43        $0.23         $0.14         $0.01

Diluted:
Weighted average common             32,965,000   29,015,000   27,726,000    26,911,000    23,652,000
   shares outstanding

Dilutive effect of stock options     2,252,000    1,417,000    1,261,000     1,340,000     1,578,000
   and warrants

Total shares                        35,217,000   30,432,000   28,987,000    28,251,000    25,230,000

Net income                          30,520,000   12,448,000    6,243,000     3,650,000       231,000

Net income per common share              $0.87        $0.41        $0.22         $0.13         $0.01
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>0004.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1

                           Subsidiaries of Registrant

                              Cree Lighting Company
                                Cree Funding, LLC
                             Cree Technologies, Inc.
                             Cree Research FSC, Inc.

                        Real Color Displays, Incorporated
                     (Articles of Dissolution filed with the
               North Carolina Secretary of State on June 23, 2000)
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>0005.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
<TEXT>


                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1

                         Consent of Independent Auditors

We consent to the  incorporation by reference in the Registration  Statements of
Cree, Inc. on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-92477,  33-92479,  33-98956 and 33-98958) and on
Form S-3 (No.  33-98728) of (i) our report dated July 21, 2000,  with respect to
the consolidated  financial statements of Cree, Inc. and subsidiaries,  and (ii)
our  report  dated  March 26,  2000,  except for Note 8, as to which the date is
April 10,  2000,  with  respect to the  financial  statements  of  Nitres,  Inc.
included in the Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Cree,  Inc. for the year ended June
25, 2000.

                                         /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Raleigh, North Carolina
August 8, 2000
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.2
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>0006.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.2

                       Consent of Independent Accountants

We  hereby  consent  to the  incorporation  by  reference  in  the  Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (Nos.  33-98956,  33-98958,  333-92477 and 333-92479) and
Form S-3 (No.  33-98728) of Cree, Inc. of our report dated July 22, 1998, except
for the  restatement of the fiscal 1998 financial  statements as a result of the
business combination described in the first three paragraphs of Note 2 for which
the date is May 1, 2000,  relating to the financial  statements  of Cree,  Inc.,
which appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Raleigh, North Carolina
August 8, 2000
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>0007.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE>                     5
<LEGEND>
     (Replace this text with the legend)
</LEGEND>
<CIK>                         0000895419
<NAME>                        CREE, INC.
<MULTIPLIER>                                   1,000
<CURRENCY>                                     US DOLLARS

<S>                         <C>               <C>            <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                    12-MOS            12-MOS         12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>           JUN-25-2000       JUN-27-1999    JUN-28-1998
<PERIOD-START>              JUN-28-1999       JUN-29-1998    JUL-01-1997
<PERIOD-END>                JUN-25-2000       JUN-27-1999    JUN-28-1998
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                       1                 1              1
<CASH>                          103,843            42,545         18,351
<SECURITIES>                    158,303             6,145            657
<RECEIVABLES>                    16,549            16,383         10,941
<ALLOWANCES>                        250               175            151
<INVENTORY>                       9,320             3,986          2,543
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                289,019            70,171         35,695
<PP&E>                          159,751            84,800         47,524
<DEPRECIATION>                   22,633            13,670         10,452
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                  486,202           145,933         74,380
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>            23,062            10,282          7,429
<BONDS>                               0                 0              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                 0                 0              0
<PREFERRED>                           0                 0              0
<COMMON>                        414,049           112,378         50,718
<OTHER-SE>                       49,091            18,623          5,188
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>    486,202           145,933         74,380
<SALES>                         108,562            62,401         43,962
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                108,562            62,401         43,962
<CGS>                            52,362            34,163         29,223
<TOTAL-COSTS>                    70,507            45,078         35,380
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                  1,305             1,180            502
<LOSS-PROVISION>                      0                 0              0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>              (9,400)           (1,058)          (754)
<INCOME-PRETAX>                  46,806            17,340          8,834
<INCOME-TAX>                     16,286             4,892          2,591
<INCOME-CONTINUING>              30,520            12,448          6,243
<DISCONTINUED>                        0                 0              0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                       0                 0              0
<CHANGES>                             0                 0              0
<NET-INCOME>                     30,520            12,448          6,243
<EPS-BASIC>                        0.93              0.43           0.23
<EPS-DILUTED>                      0.87              0.41           0.22


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>0008.txt
<DESCRIPTION>REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
<TEXT>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 99.1

                         Report of Independent Auditors

Board of Directors
Nitres, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying  balance sheets of Nitres,  Inc. as of June 30,
1999 and 1998 and the related  statements of  operations,  shareholders'  equity
(deficit),  and cash flows for each of the three years in the period  ended June
30, 1999.  These financial  statements are the  responsibility  of the Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial  statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by  management,  as well as  evaluating  the  overall  financial  statement
presentation.  We believe  that our audits  provide a  reasonable  basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all material  respects,  the financial  position of Nitres,  Inc. as of June 30,
1999 and 1998,  and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended June 30, 1999, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States.

                                     /s/ Ernst & Young LLP


March 26, 2000, except for Note 8,
as to which the date is
April 10, 2000
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
