-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 B3ZPAz6b1BlHnxbQuW/lusx5Q4X3EAbeFAwSCGZE8T/9ap9xyGeaZq3LSKGy4xxF
 Ux/81OzDskuUJWu2DyX4hA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001021408-02-011139.txt : 20020819
<SEC-HEADER>0001021408-02-011139.hdr.sgml : 20020819
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20020816182915
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001021408-02-011139
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20020630
FILED AS OF DATE:		20020819

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CREE INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895419
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				561572719
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NC
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0627

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-21154
		FILM NUMBER:		02741851

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4600 SILICON DR
		CITY:			DURHAM
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			27703
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9193135300

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		4600 SILICON DR
		CITY:			DURHAM
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			27703-8475

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CREE RESEARCH INC /NC/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19940224
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>d10k.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              Washington, DC 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002

                                   CREE, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


           North Carolina               0-21154                  56-1572719
    (State or other jurisdiction  (Commission File No.)      (I.R.S. Employer
        of incorporation)                                 Identification Number)


                4600 Silicon Drive, Durham, North Carolina 27703
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (919) 313-5300
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None
           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                        Common Stock, $0.00125 par value
                        --------------------------------
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of August 1, 2002 was approximately $1,019,706,031 (based on the
closing sale price of $14.49 per share).

The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock, $0.00125 par value per
share, outstanding as of August 1, 2002 was 72,728,948.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to shareholders in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held October 29, 2002
are incorporated by reference into Part III.

<PAGE>

                                    CREE, INC.
                                    FORM 10-K
                     For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2002

                                      INDEX

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Part I                                                                                                   Page
                                                                                                         ----
<S>                                                                                                      <C>
Item  1.      Business .............................................................................       3
Item  2.      Properties ...........................................................................      26
Item  3.      Legal Proceedings ....................................................................      27
Item  4.      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders ..................................      30

Part II

Item  5.      Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
              Stockholder Matters ..................................................................      30
Item  6.      Selected Financial Data ..............................................................      32
Item  7.      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
              Condition and Results of Operations ..................................................      33
Item  7A.     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk ...........................      46
Item  8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data ..........................................      47
Item  9.      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
              Accounting and Financial Disclosures .................................................      74

Part III

Item 10.      Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant ...................................      74
Item 11.      Executive Compensation ...............................................................      74
Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
              Management ...........................................................................      74
Item 13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions .......................................      74

Part IV

Item 14.      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K ......................      75

SIGNATURES .........................................................................................      77
</TABLE>

                                      -2-

<PAGE>

                                     PART I

Item 1.   Business

INTRODUCTION

Cree, Inc., a North Carolina corporation, was established in 1987 to
commercialize semiconductor wafers and devices made from silicon carbide, or
SiC. Today, we are the world-leader in developing and manufacturing compound
semiconductor materials and electronic devices made from SiC and a leading
developer and manufacturer of optoelectronic and electronic devices made from
gallium nitride, or GaN, and related materials. We also produce RF power
transistor components and modules for wireless infrastructure applications using
silicon-based bipolar and laterally diffused metal oxide semiconductor, or
LDMOS, process technologies. We operate our business in two segments, the Cree
segment, which consists of our SiC-based products and research contracts, and
the Cree Microwave segment, which consists of RF transistors and RF transistor
modules based on a silicon platform.

SiC and GaN-based devices offer technical advantages over competitive products
made from silicon, gallium arsenide, or GaAs, sapphire and other materials for
certain electronic applications. We use our wide bandgap compound semiconductor
technology to make enabling products such as near ultra-violet (products with
wavelengths between 380 and 410 nanometers), or UV, blue and green light
emitting diodes, or LEDs. We sell our LEDs to customers who package them for use
in applications such as wireless handsets, backlighting for automotive
dashboards and other consumer products. Other applications for our LEDs include
indoor and outdoor full color displays, such as video boards in arenas and
stadiums, billboards and message signs. Our LEDs are also used in traffic
signals, indicator lights for consumer or industrial equipment and miniature
white lights used for illumination applications. We have developed several
generations of LED products, including our MegaBright(TM) and XBright(TM) LEDs
released during fiscal 2002. Based on our own measurements, we believe that our
XBright(TM) product family includes the highest brightness (which is defined as
the optical power output from a chip at 20 milliamps of drive current) UV, blue
and green LEDs commercially available. All of our SiC-based GaN UV, blue and
green LEDs offer benefits to our customers over competing products, which
include a vertical chip structure, improved resistance to electrostatic
discharge and small size. We also manufacture SiC material products, including
SiC wafers, which we sell for use in manufacturing LEDs and power devices and
for research directed to optoelectronics (which includes LEDs and laser diodes),
microwave and power devices, and bulk SiC material, which we sell for use in
gemstone applications. The remainder of our Cree segment revenue is derived from
sales of laser diodes and power diodes, and sales from industrial contracts and
government contracts for research work performed for the U.S. Government.

Our entry into the wireless infrastructure market as a component supplier
occurred with our acquisition in December 2000 of the UltraRF business of
Spectrian Corporation, or Spectrian. We renamed the UltraRF business Cree
Microwave during fiscal 2002. Cree Microwave operates its own wafer fabrication
facility that utilizes silicon substrates to create bipolar and LDMOS devices to
produce high-power, high performance radio frequency, or RF, power
semiconductors for use in wireless infrastructure equipment.

We have new product initiatives aimed at developing LEDs with higher luminous
efficiency to expand our existing family of optoelectronic devices. We believe
that if certain significant milestones are achieved, the LED chips currently in
development may enable our customers to produce white lamps designed to compete
in the lighting market. Some of our customers are already offering early
illumination products using our devices. We also have new product initiatives
for RF and microwave transistors using

                                      -3-

<PAGE>

SiC and GaN technology. We believe that these products may be useful in a
variety of applications, including power amplifiers for next generation wireless
infrastructure and solid state radar. In addition, we are developing and
sampling high power rectifiers for power conversion and switching uses, which we
believe will allow for more efficient use of energy in certain applications over
alternative silicon-based semiconductor solutions. We are working on the
development of a high-powered UV laser diode for use in next generation
high-density digital versatile disk, or DVD, and other optical storage
applications. At Cree Microwave, we are developing higher performance LDMOS
devices for next generation power amplifiers for base station infrastructure
applications.

BACKGROUND

Most semiconductor devices are fabricated on wafers made from silicon crystals.
Silicon is the dominant semiconductor material because the technology has
evolved to the point where it can be grown into large, high quality single
crystals that are suitable for fabricating many electronic devices. Alternative
materials, such as GaAs, have emerged to enable the fabrication of new devices
with characteristics that could not be obtained using silicon, including certain
RF, microwave, LED, laser and other semiconductor devices. However, GaAs,
silicon and other commercially available semiconductor materials have physical
and electronic characteristics that limit their usefulness in certain
applications. For example, conventional silicon and GaAs-based semiconductors
have not demonstrated the ability to enable short wavelength (UV, blue or green)
LED or laser devices. In addition, the power handling capabilities of silicon
and GaAs-based microwave transistors can limit the power and performance of
microwave systems used in certain commercial and military applications. With the
possibility of allowing higher power densities, SiC and GaN-based wireless
systems may use fewer transistors per base station with less complex circuitry,
which may result in a lower system cost. Furthermore, few silicon or GaAs
devices can operate effectively at temperatures above 400(degrees) Fahrenheit.
This is a significant limitation for applications such as advanced electronic
systems for high power electric motors and high frequency RF devices.

Substantial research and development efforts have been undertaken to explore the
properties of other potential semiconductor materials. These efforts have
identified few candidate materials that are capable of being grown as low defect
single crystals, a requirement in the production of most semiconductors. The
properties of SiC and GaN make them excellent materials for extending existing
semiconductor device technology where high power, high temperature or UV, blue
and green wavelengths are important for performance.

SiC AND GaN OVERVIEW

Wide bandgap semiconductors are an emerging class of semiconductors that enable
a variety of capabilities for solid state devices. Two of the most common wide
bandgap semiconductors are SiC and GaN. SiC is most commonly targeted for power
devices and RF devices, while GaN is generally targeted for optoelectronic
applications, as well as higher frequency microwave power devices. SiC makes an
excellent substrate for growing layers of GaN due to its material properties.
For GaN optoelectronic devices, conductive SiC substrates allow the fabrication
of vertical devices (a single contact on top and bottom), as opposed to the use
of insulating sapphire substrates where devices need both diode contacts placed
on the top of the die. This allows GaN-on-SiC LEDs to be smaller in size than
the two top contact devices made on sapphire. For high power GaN RF devices, the
high thermal conductivity of SiC allows for very efficient heat dissipation.
This is important for the high power densities generated in these devices.

SiC has many physical characteristics that make it difficult to produce. For
example, in a typical semiconductor manufacturing process, the semiconductor
material is grown as a single crystal and sliced

                                      -4-

<PAGE>

into wafers. The wafers are then polished and chemically etched, coated with
thin crystalline films containing controlled levels of impurities and fabricated
into devices. Because SiC can form many different atomic arrangements and must
be grown at process temperatures above 3,500(degrees) Fahrenheit to achieve our
desired crystal structure, it is difficult to grow large single crystals that
have a homogeneous structure. In addition, the high temperatures required to
grow SiC make the control of impurity levels in SiC crystals and thin films
difficult. "Micropipes", or small diameter holes, may appear in the crystals
during their growth, affecting the electrical integrity of the wafer and
reducing the usability of portions of the wafer for certain applications.
Slicing and polishing SiC wafers is hindered by the intrinsic hardness of the
material. Similarly, its inherent chemical resistance makes SiC a difficult
material to etch.

The characteristics discussed below distinguish SiC and GaN from conventional
silicon and GaAs-based semiconductor materials, resulting in significant
advantages if production hurdles can be overcome.

WIDE ENERGY BANDGAP. Bandgap is the amount of energy required to ionize an
electron from the valence band to the conduction band. SiC and GaN are
classified as wide bandgap semiconductor materials, meaning that more energy is
required for ionization. Electronic devices made from these materials can
operate more efficiently and at much higher temperatures than devices made from
other common semiconductor materials. The wider energy bandgap also enables the
generation of shorter wavelength (UV, blue and green) light in optoelectronic
devices.

HIGH BREAKDOWN ELECTRIC FIELD. The "breakdown electric field" is the amount of
voltage per unit distance that a material can withstand and still effectively
operate as a semiconductor device. SiC and GaN have much higher breakdown
electric fields than silicon or GaAs. This characteristic allows wide bandgap
devices to operate at much higher voltage levels. Additionally, it allows SiC
power devices to be significantly smaller while carrying the same or greater
power levels than comparable silicon and GaAs-based devices. This same advantage
holds true for SiC and GaN RF power devices.

HIGH THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY. SiC is an excellent thermal conductor compared to
other commercially available semiconductor materials. This enables a SiC-based
device to operate at high power levels and still dissipate the excess heat
generated. It also enables efficient heat dissipation when used as a substrate
for GaN-based devices such as RF transistors.

HIGH SATURATED ELECTRON DRIFT VELOCITY. SiC and GaN have "saturated electron
drift velocities" higher than that of silicon or GaAs. The saturated electron
drift velocity is the maximum speed at which electrons can travel through a
material. This characteristic, combined with a high breakdown electric field,
allows the fabrication of SiC and GaN-based microwave transistors that operate
at RF frequencies with significantly higher power density levels than current
silicon and GaAs-based devices.

ROBUST MATERIAL. SiC has an extremely high melting point and is one of the
hardest known materials in the world. As a result, SiC can withstand much higher
electrical pulses and is more radiation-resistant than silicon or GaAs. SiC and
GaN are also extremely resistant to chemical breakdown and can operate in harsh
environments.

THE CREE SOLUTION

Some of the same physical characteristics that make SiC an excellent material
for certain semiconductor applications also make the material a technical
challenge to produce. Through our 15 years of development and manufacturing
experience, we have succeeded in overcoming many of the difficulties involved in
processing SiC substrates for commercial use. We believe that our proprietary
process

                                      -5-

<PAGE>

techniques and the inherent attributes of both SiC and GaN give our products
significant advantages over competing products for certain electronic
applications. These advantages include:

UV, BLUE AND GREEN LIGHT EMISSION. We produce high efficiency UV, blue and green
LEDs using GaN and other nitrides grown on SiC substrates. Most other
manufacturers of nitride-based LEDs currently use sapphire substrates, other
than Osram Opto Semiconductors GmbH, a subsidiary of Osram GmbH, or Osram, which
has licensed the ability to manufacture SiC-based devices and buys SiC wafers
for use in their manufacturing process, from us. The conductive properties of
SiC enable us to fabricate a single top contact LED chip that is smaller than
the "two top contact" products made by competitors who use sapphire substrates.
Our chips made with SiC substrates can be packaged the same way as red, green
and amber LED chips made from other materials that are widely used in the LED
industry. We believe that the single top contact design of our chip affords our
customers flexibility for certain package types. We are also continuing
development of nitride-based UV laser diodes grown on SiC. The principal
advantages of SiC over sapphire substrate materials for UV laser diodes are the
high thermal conductivity attributes of the material and the ability for the
material to be easily cleaved, providing an excellent surface for laser light
emission.

ENABLING SUBSTRATE PROPERTIES. The inherent attributes of SiC as a substrate
enable researchers to work on developing new optoelectronic, microwave and power
devices that offer significant advantages over competing products and which
could not be produced as effectively on other substrate materials. We
manufacture SiC wafers for both internal use and for sale to external
development programs to further new product development. The majority of our
current production is on two-inch diameter (50 millimeter) material. We also
have released three-inch diameter (75 millimeter) wafers and demonstrated a
four-inch diameter (100 millimeter) prototype wafer.

HIGH POWER RF AND MICROWAVE OPERATION. We have demonstrated SiC RF and microwave
transistors that can operate at much higher voltages than silicon or GaAs
because of SiC's high breakdown electric field, allowing much higher power
operation at high frequencies. Similar advantages exist for microwave devices
made using GaN on SiC substrates, which can also operate at much higher
frequencies than SiC-only devices. In fiscal 2000 we first began shipping sample
quantities of SiC RF devices which have potential applications in wireless
infrastructure systems. We have continued development efforts directed to
improving the performance and reliability of our SiC RF devices which has
increased their attractiveness to wireless system manufacturers. As the
performance of silicon-based LDMOS products continued to improve, we determined
that near term wireless infrastructure power transistors were likely to be
manufactured with silicon-based products rather than our SiC-based devices. As a
result, we acquired the business now comprising Cree Microwave in December 2000
to participate in the RF power transistor market in the near term. We believe
our SiC transistors will likely be more desirable for broadband amplifiers that
can cover the entire DCS/PCS/UMTS frequency band of 1.8-2.2 gigahertz, or GHz.
Additional applications include wide bandwidth military radio and test and
instrumentation equipment. In addition, we continue to develop GaN-based devices
for high frequency wireless infrastructure and other commercial and defense
related applications. We are also pursuing the development of monolithic
microwave integrated circuit, or "MMIC", power amplifiers in both SiC and GaN
for a variety of military applications.

HIGH POWER, HIGH VOLTAGE OPERATION. We are producing small quantities of a
product family of SiC Schottky diodes that have a greater breakdown voltage than
Schottky diodes made from other semiconductor materials currently available. We
believe our Schottky diodes offer inherent system benefits beyond these
competitive products because of the significant reduction of reverse recovery
current at similar breakdown voltages. We believe that our SiC power diodes
operate with significantly lower switching losses than those made with silicon
or GaAs, for the same breakdown voltage. In

                                      -6-

<PAGE>

addition, we believe that our SiC power transistors under development operate
with lower resistive losses and lower switching losses than those made with
silicon or GaAs.

PRODUCTS

We operate our business in two segments, the Cree segment, which consists of our
SiC and GaN-based products, and the Cree Microwave segment, which consists of
silicon-based RF power transistor components and modules.

THE CREE SEGMENT:

UV, BLUE AND GREEN LEDs

LEDs are solid-state electronic components used in miniature packages in
everyday applications such as indicator lights on televisions, radios, printers,
computers and other equipment. LEDs generally offer substantial advantages over
small incandescent bulbs, including longer life, lower maintenance cost and
energy consumption, and smaller space requirements. Groups of LEDs can make up
single or full-color electronic displays. In 1989 we introduced the first
commercially viable blue LED made using a SiC only design. Subsequently, we have
developed and released several generations of LED products, including UV, blue
and green LEDs made from GaN and related materials on SiC substrates. With the
initial release of our XBright(TM) LEDs in fiscal 2002, we believe we have
introduced the brightest commercially available UV, blue and green product
family of LEDs. Our customers are currently in the qualification stages of
packaging XBright(TM) chips and some have encountered challenges in qualifying
their packaging process. We target a ramp-up to commercial production levels
during the first half of fiscal 2003.

We will continue to work to improve the brightness of our UV, blue and green
chips to achieve higher performance than currently available. Over the next five
to ten years or perhaps longer, we believe these yet to be developed products
could be used to produce white lamps to compete with conventional lighting
products for certain applications. We believe that LEDs made using SiC
substrates offer important benefits over competitive devices using sapphire
substrates including:

     -    an industry standard vertical chip structure requiring a single wire
          bond that permits more efficient LED assembly;
     -    a smaller area chip size; and
     -    higher performance in terms of brightness.

Presently, our LED chips are used for backlighting purposes in applications such
as wireless handsets and automotive dashboard lighting. They are also used in
white light products designed for specialty indoor illumination and for the
illumination of outdoor buildings and structures and in landscape lighting. In
addition, they are used in consumer products and office equipment as indicator
lighting, in full color video displays, such as arena replay screens, billboards
and moving message advertising and informational signs and as the green light in
traffic signals. Our standard brightness LED products, offered in blue
wavelengths only, are primarily used in indoor applications, automotive designs
or as indicator lights. Some customers manufacture solid-state LED components
that emit white light using our blue LEDs. Customers are also working to develop
white light components using our UV LEDs. By passing blue or UV LED light
through certain conversion materials such as phosphors, or by using blue in
combination with LEDs of other appropriate colors, white light emission can be
obtained from lamps made with blue or UV LEDs. We currently sell blue LED chips
to customers who produce packaged components that emit white light. Current
commercial applications of white LEDs using Cree's blue

                                      -7-

<PAGE>

LEDs include backlighting applications for automobile dashboards and
instrumentation, backlighting for wireless handsets and early general
illumination applications. During fiscal 2002, we received our QS 9000
registration, which signifies that our quality systems met a set of requirements
established by international auto manufacturers.

We believe that our products are well positioned to take advantage of recent
trends in the wireless handset market. Although the global market for wireless
handsets may be flat to declining due to a slow global economy, we believe our
share of this market could increase as a result of changes in backlighting
applications. Handset manufacturers recently have begun to use blue or white
backlighting in new models, rather than traditional yellow-green backlighting
that has been common during the last several years. We believe that our chips
meet the blue and or white lighting characteristics that the market is now
demanding. In addition, we believe that the development of full color displays
for mobile handsets will increase demand for white LEDs in order to maximize the
effectiveness of the full color display.

We are focusing current development efforts on further improving the efficiency
as well as lowering our cost to manufacture our LEDs and improving other
performance characteristics of the devices for certain markets, such as thinner
chips and lower forward voltages. Responding to a market trend towards devices
with a lower forward voltage, we undertook major development initiatives during
fiscal year 2002 as we trailed sapphire-based LEDs in this important area for
new high-volume cell phone applications. The current "two top contact"
sapphire-based devices have certain advantages compared to our single top
contact design in terms of lower forward voltage and thinner chips. We believe
that increased brightness will continue to be necessary to develop new
applications and market opportunities for LEDs, and may eventually lead to
products marketed for commercial lighting applications. LED products represented
58%, 65% and 63% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002, June
24, 2001 and June 25, 2000, respectively.

MATERIALS PRODUCTS

We manufacture SiC wafers for sale to corporate customers that use the wafers in
manufacturing products for optoelectronic and power device applications.
Corporate, government and university programs also buy wafers for research and
development directed to optoelectronic, microwave and high power devices. Our
SiC wafer products may be sold as a bare wafer or customized by adding epitaxial
films of SiC or GaN materials, depending upon the nature of the customer's
needs. Since the company's inception in 1987, we have worked continuously to
improve the quality of our SiC wafers while also increasing wafer diameter. In
October 1999, we introduced our first three-inch wafer and we have recently
expanded our product line of three-inch wafers, which are better suited for the
manufacture of power devices. We currently sell wafers to Osram and Infineon
Technologies AG, or Infineon, for the production of LED and power products,
respectively.

Single crystalline SiC has characteristics that are similar to diamond,
including properties relating to color, hardness and brilliance. We manufacture
SiC crystals in near colorless form for use in gemstone applications. We sell
SiC in bulk crystal form to Charles & Colvard, or C&C; a company founded to
produce and market gemstone products made from SiC crystals. C&C cuts and facets
the SiC crystals to fabricate gemstones targeted at customers who desire
alternative colorless, affordable, high-quality jewelry. Sales of gemstone
crystals have re-emerged as a stronger product line in the second half of fiscal
2002, due to heavier demand from C&C. Future demand for this product is
dependent on C&C's ability to cut, facet and effectively market its gemstone
products. Our SiC wafer products are marketed through executive sales while
materials used for gemstone applications are exclusively sold to C&C. Wafer and
other material products represented 13%, 14% and 26% of our revenue for the
fiscal years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000, respectively.

                                      -8-

<PAGE>

POWER DEVICES

In fiscal 2002, we announced the commercial release of the first products in our
planned line of SiC-based power devices. Our initial products are 600-volt
Schottky diodes offered in limited quantities at 1, 4, 6 and 10 amp ratings.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2003, we have released a 20 amp device. We
are marketing these products to manufacturers of power conditioning and power
switching equipment as potential replacements for silicon-based power devices in
certain applications. SiC-based power devices have the potential to handle
significantly higher power densities than existing silicon-based devices and can
operate at significantly higher voltages with superior switching capabilities,
yielding power savings due to higher efficiency. Potential applications include
power factor correction and switch mode power supplies typically used in
telecommunications and computer servers, and heavy industrial uses. Other
applications include industrial motor controls, high frequency power supplies
and medical applications.

Revenue growth from these devices is dependent on the results of customer
evaluations of the Schottky diode device and whether the products are designed
into customer applications. We believe that revenue growth will be slow
initially because our technology is not a "drop in" replacement and is currently
much more expensive than silicon devices. In addition, with the slowdown of the
global economy, we believe many companies have reduced their research and
development budgets, which has impacted our growth. Finally, our Schottky
devices are a new technology, and it will take time to penetrate existing
markets. Power devices represented less than 1% of revenue for the fiscal years
ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000.

RF AND MICROWAVE TRANSISTORS

During fiscal year 2002, we offered a new 10-watt transistor product made from
SiC to customers in prototype quantities. We believe that these products can be
used in a variety of power amplifier applications, including wireless
infrastructure, home-based subscriber units, digital broadcast and military
broadband radio applications. Revenue growth from sales of these devices is
dependent on the results of customer evaluations of SiC RF products, further
improvements in device performance, further expansion of our SiC RF product
family, and whether the products are designed into customer applications.

THE CREE MICROWAVE SEGMENT:

RF AND MICROWAVE TRANSISTORS

We believe that silicon bipolar and LDMOS technology is complementary to our SiC
and GaN-based microwave devices. Cree Microwave produces bipolar and LDMOS
devices made from silicon. These products enable us to provide an array of power
amplifier semiconductor devices designed to meet a broad spectrum of the
wireless infrastructure markets now and in the future. Cree Microwave offers
products for use in a range of systems. These systems include Advanced Mobile
Phone Services, or AMPS, Time Division Multiple Access, or TDMA, Code Division
Multiple Access, or CDMA, Global System for Mobile Communications, or GSM,
Universal Mobile Telephone Service, or UMTS and Enhanced Data Rates for GSM
Evolution, or EDGE systems. Cree Microwave is one of only a few major
manufacturers of LDMOS RF devices.

The market for cellular communications services has grown substantially during
the past decade due to decreasing prices for wireless handsets, increasing
competition among service providers and a greater availability of high quality
services. In recent quarters, the cellular communications market has been

                                      -9-

<PAGE>

declining due to the global economic slowdown, which has caused carriers to
reduce infrastructure spending. However, we believe that significant long-term
market opportunities exist.

A typical wireless communication system comprises a geographic region containing
a number of cells, each of which contains a base station. The cells are
networked to form a service provider's coverage area. Each base station houses
the equipment that sends telephone calls to and from the switching office of the
local wire line telephone company and transmits and receives calls to the
wireless users within the cell. Base stations may be configured as single
carrier or multi-carrier designs.

Digital systems, which convert voice transmission into bits of electronic
information, enable data transmission among other things. The four dominant
digital transmission modulation formats for cellular networks include GSM, TDMA,
CDMA and EDGE systems and operate in frequency ranges from 900 megahertz, or
MHz, to 2400 MHz. These systems have a call capacity of three to eight times
that of analog networks. The implementation of these digital networks has
resulted in increased demand for network infrastructure equipment. Cree
Microwave is able to produce both bipolar and LDMOS products that are used in
the manufacture of power amplifiers for both analog and digital base stations.
Cree Microwave produces the semiconductor content of a power amplifier, which is
used in a base station to boost the power of a signal so that it can reach a
wireless phone or other device within a designated geography.

During fiscal 2002, we developed an amplifier module that incorporates our
LDMOS-based transistors and is designed to simplify the design and assembly of
power amplifiers using the LDMOS products. We believe that this module product
can deliver a lower system cost to our customer due to less costly packaging, a
smaller design and relative ease of manufacture for our customer.

RF products represented 16% and 11% of our revenue for the fiscal years ended
June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001, respectively. The Cree Microwave business
segment was acquired from Spectrian in December 2000. The majority of sales from
this segment were to Spectrian during fiscal 2002 and 2001. The loss of or a
decline in sales to this customer would have a material adverse effect on this
segment.

PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT

THE CREE SEGMENT:

LEDs WITH HIGHER OUTPUT POWER

Cree Lighting, based in Goleta, California, is engaged in the development of new
LED device technology, with the goal of developing higher efficiency LEDs to
compete with incandescent and fluorescent lighting technology for conventional
lighting markets. During fiscal 2002, we more than doubled the typical
brightness of our LED products with the introduction of our XBright(TM) and
MegaBright(TM) products. In order to compete with incandescent and fluorescent
lighting technology for conventional lighting markets, the brightness of our
products will need to increase significantly over the brightness of our products
available today. We do not anticipate that our products can achieve the
necessary level of brightness in a cost competitive product over the next few
years; however, we believe we can achieve a greater level of brightness to
enable interim illumination applications, such as miniature incandescent
lighting replacements. One such interim step during fiscal 2002 was the
introduction of our XBright(TM) 900 Power Chip LED. At 900 x 900 microns nominal
gross die size, the XBright(TM) Power Chip is significantly larger than industry
standard (300 x 300 microns) LEDs and is the first large area version of our
XBright(TM) chip technology. These chips deliver more than 10 times the light
output at a higher current than our standard XBright(TM) chips and we believe
these high-power LEDs could help

                                      -10-

<PAGE>

enable a new range of lighting applications. These chips will require our
customers to develop new packages to support these higher-powered chips. The
targeted application for these devices is the solid state illumination market.

BLUE AND UV LASER DIODES

We continue to focus on the development of blue and UV laser diodes. SiC has
inherent attributes, including its natural cleavability and high thermal
conductivity that make it an excellent substrate material for the development of
such short wavelength laser diodes. The storage capacity of optical disk drives
can be increased significantly by utilizing a laser diode capable of emitting
shorter wavelength light. We have shipped sample UV laser diodes, fabricated
from nitride materials deposited on SiC substrates, which have a shorter
wavelength than that of the red or infrared lasers used in applications today.
We believe that the shorter wavelength of UV light could potentially result in
storage capacity for optical disk drives that is significantly greater than the
capacity permitted by red light. We also believe that UV laser technology may be
used in miniature optical devices for compact sized electronics, such as digital
cameras. We have demonstrated a prototype UV laser with 3 milliwatts of power
and a projected lifetime of 10,000 hours. We believe that this laser meets the
current power requirement of a "read" laser; however, additional development is
required to commercialize this product. We continue to work on developing a
"read/write" UV laser, which will require approximately 30 milliwatts of
continuous wave, or CW, power, and we are targeting our first product to be
released for customer sampling during fiscal 2003. A consortium of DVD
manufacturers is currently creating standards for blue and UV laser devices
named the Blu-Ray Disc format. Once these standards are completed, we believe
that the demand for diodes that meet the standards may increase.

POWER DEVICES

We are developing additional prototype high power devices that we believe have
many potential uses. Such devices could be employed in applications involving
power conditioning as well as power switching. We intend to release higher
voltage Schottky products within the next fiscal year, targeted for motor
control and snubber applications. In fiscal 1999, we entered into a three-year
project with Kansai Electric Power Company, one of the largest power companies
in the world, for the development of SiC-based devices for use in power
transmission networks. This project was completed during fiscal 2002. During
this project we demonstrated record results with a 6 kV MOSFET
(metal-oxide-semiconductor field effect transistor) and a 5.5 kV junction field
effect transistor that had on-resistances that were 1/25th and 1/65th lower,
respectively, of the theoretical limit for an equivalent silicon device.
Additionally, high voltage SiC PIN diodes were demonstrated with blocking
voltages up to 19 kV, a 50% increase over our previous record and almost double
what is commercially available in silicon. We continue to work on higher power
devices such as Schottky and PIN diodes as well as power switches. However, we
are not planning to release PIN diodes or power switches suitable for power
transmission in the near term.

RF AND MICROWAVE DEVICES

We are currently developing additional SiC-based transistors that operate at
radio and microwave frequencies. We believe these devices will have applications
in future generation wireless base stations, solid-state broadcast systems, wide
bandwidth military radio, and radar search and detection equipment. These
SiC-based devices are targeted for frequencies from 30 MHz to 4 GHz. We believe
that future SiC transistors in development, with higher power density than
current silicon and GaAs-based devices, may allow wireless systems to operate
across a wider band and use fewer transistors per base station, resulting in
less complex circuitry, higher linearity, better efficiency and lower cost.

                                      -11-

<PAGE>

We are also developing GaN-based microwave transistors on SiC substrates that
are targeted for higher gain and/or higher frequency applications including
cellular base stations and solid-state radar systems. In December 2001, we
reported CW performance for GaN of 108 watts at 2 GHz, which we believe to be
the highest publicly reported CW power output for a single device at this
frequency. This demonstrates its potential for infrastructure applications. We
developed GaN MMICs that demonstrated 24 watts of power at 16 GHz. This power
level is higher than that achieved with equivalent GaAs-based devices. We do not
anticipate that a commercial device capable of emitting power at this level will
be available in the near term.

THE CREE MICROWAVE SEGMENT:

RF AND MICROWAVE DEVICES

We continue to enhance the capabilities of our silicon-based LDMOS products and
are working towards the release of next generation devices that we believe will
allow for more linearity and increased power and be comparable to the best in
class products of our competitors. We are targeting these products to be
available in fiscal 2003. We are also continuing to develop additional module
devices to meet advanced needs of our customers. The module configuration allows
us to produce more of the circuit for the power transistor and the product is
more competitively priced than our regular LDMOS devices because the module
configuration features a lower cost package compared with the traditional
ceramic package used for discrete devices. We are targeting these products to be
produced in commercial volumes in fiscal 2003. Additionally we are working with
certain customers on advanced modulation products.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS OF CUSTOMERS AND
ASSETS

For financial information about business segments, please see Note 2, "Summary
of Significant Accounting Policies and Other Matters" to our consolidated
financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. For financial
information about the geographical areas of customers, please see Note 2,
"Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Other Matters" to our
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this report. All of our
long-lived assets are currently maintained in the United States.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACT FUNDING

We derive a portion of our revenue from funding from research contracts with the
U.S. Government. For the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and
June 25, 2000, government funding represented 12%, 10% and 11% of total revenue,
respectively. These contracts typically cover work performed over several months
up to three years. These contracts may be modified or terminated at the
convenience of the government. Therefore, these programs may be subject to
government budgetary fluctuations. The contracts generally provide that we may
elect to retain title to inventions made in the course of research, with the
government obtaining a nonexclusive license to practice such inventions for
government purposes.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

We invest significant resources in research and development aimed at improving
our semiconductor materials and developing new device and production technology.
Our core SiC materials research is directed to improving the quality and
diameter of our SiC substrates. We are also working to improve the quality of
the SiC and nitride epitaxial materials we grow to produce devices and to
improve device

                                      -12-

<PAGE>

yields by reducing variability in our processes. These efforts are in addition
to on-going projects focused on brighter LEDs, higher power, higher linearity RF
and microwave devices, UV laser devices and higher power diodes and switches
discussed above.

We spent $51.2 million in fiscal 2002, $38.4 million in fiscal 2001 and $20.0
million in fiscal 2000 for direct expenditures relating to research and
development activities. Off-setting these expenditures were $19.5 million in
fiscal 2002, $19.0 million in fiscal 2001 and $12.7 million in fiscal 2000 of
U.S. Government funding for direct and indirect research and development
expenses. In addition, certain customers have also sponsored research activities
related to the development of new products. Customers contributed $9.0 million
in fiscal 2002, $11.9 million in fiscal 2001 and $5.5 million in fiscal 2000
towards our product research and development activities.

SALES AND MARKETING

We actively market our LED, wafer and power products through targeted
promotions, telemarketing, select advertising and attendance at trade shows. We
have a small direct sales force and senior management actively works with
customers around the world. We believe that this approach is preferable in view
of our current customer base and product mix, particularly since the production
of lamp and display products incorporating LED chips is concentrated among a
relatively small number of LED packaging manufacturers. Additionally, the sales
team has been expanded in fiscal 2002 to include sales offices in Hong Kong and
Japan.

In June 2002, we opened an office in Tokyo, Japan, through our subsidiary Cree
Japan, Inc., to bring our technology and engineering support closer to the
Japanese customer base. In connection with the opening of our new office,
Sumitomo Corporation, or Sumitomo, was named as our strategic partner to
distribute our products in Japan. Sumitomo has exclusive distribution rights in
Japan for our nitride LED chip products and SiC wafer products for a minimum of
three years. Our personnel in Japan will work with and support the sales
activities of the Sumitomo team dedicated to our product line.

We also use sales representatives to market our LED products in Hong Kong,
China, Taiwan and South Korea. However, as a result of the introduction of many
new products during fiscal 2002, we perceived the need for more frequent
interaction with our customers. As a result, we opened a Southeast Asian sales
office in Kowloon, Hong Kong, through our subsidiary Cree Asia-Pacific, Inc., to
facilitate business transactions and act as the liaison between our Asia Pacific
customers and our U.S. corporate office. Territorial responsibilities for the
Cree-Asia Pacific sales office include Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and Malaysia. In
addition, the Hong Kong sales office oversees the day-to-day administration of
our sales agents in Hong Kong and Taiwan as well as assisting our direct
customers in the region.

We sell SiC crystal materials for use in gemstone applications directly to C&C
under an exclusive supply agreement. We are using both direct sales and sales
representative arrangements to market RF products for Cree Microwave, including
a new distributor agreement signed with Arrow Manufacturing in fiscal 2002.

CUSTOMERS

During fiscal 2002, revenues from four customers, Osram, Spectrian, Sumitomo
(which represents sales to several Japanese customers) and the U.S. Government,
each accounted for more than 10% of total revenue. During fiscal 2002, we signed
new supply agreements with Osram and Sumitomo, which extend into fiscal 2003.
Spectrian is a customer of the Cree Microwave segment. During fiscal 2001,

                                      -13-

<PAGE>

revenues from three customers, Osram, Sumitomo and Spectrian, each accounted for
more than 10% of total revenue. For the year ended June 25, 2000, revenue from
Osram, Sumitomo, C&C and the U.S. Government each accounted for more than 10% of
total revenue. For financial information about foreign and domestic sales,
please see Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Other
Matters" to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this
report.

BACKLOG

As of June 30, 2002, we had a backlog believed to be firm of approximately
$138.7 million consisting of approximately $86.9 million of product orders and
$51.8 million under research contracts signed with the U.S. Government, for
which a portion of the contracted funds have not yet been appropriated. This
compares to a firm backlog as of June 24, 2001, of approximately $86.5 million
consisting of approximately $69.9 million of product orders and $16.6 million
under research contracts signed with the U.S. Government, a portion which had
not yet been funded through appropriations. Backlog could be adversely affected
if the U.S. Government exercises its rights to terminate the government
contracts or does not appropriate and allocate all of the funding contemplated
by the contracts. We believe the entire backlog could be filled during fiscal
2003, with the exception of approximately $9.7 million of product orders and
$23.9 million in U.S. Government funded contracts. The reported backlog amounts
include $16.2 million ordered from Spectrian under their supply agreement. If we
are not able to produce LDMOS 8 products that meet qualification specifications,
this amount of revenue may be reduced or may not be realized at all.

MANUFACTURING

Our SiC products are manufactured in a seven-part process, which include: SiC
crystal growth, wafer slicing, polishing, epitaxial deposition, fabrication,
testing and packaging. SiC crystals are grown using a high temperature process
designed to produce uniform crystals in a single crystalline form. Crystals used
for gemstones exit the manufacturing process at this stage. Crystals used for
other products are then sliced into wafers. The wafers are polished and then
processed using our epitaxial deposition processes, which require that we grow
thin layers of SiC, GaN or other materials on the polished wafer, depending on
the nature of the device under production. SiC wafer products may leave the
manufacturing process either after polishing or epitaxy. Following epitaxy, LED,
power and RF chips are fabricated in a clean room environment. The final step
includes testing and sawing prior to shipment to the customer. Power chips are
then forwarded to a third party where they are assembled into industry standard
packages and returned to us prior to shipment to our customers. SiC RF
transistors are currently packaged and tested in our Durham, North Carolina
facility. However, we believe that this process will be transferred to the Cree
Microwave facility in Sunnyvale, California during fiscal 2003. In manufacturing
our products, we depend substantially on our custom-manufactured equipment and
systems, some of which are manufactured internally and some of which we acquire
from third parties and customize ourselves.

Cree Microwave produces both silicon LDMOS and silicon bipolar junction
transistor, or BJT, structures at its wafer fabrication facility in Sunnyvale,
California. Both product families use silicon wafers that are acquired from
third parties and the devices are fabricated in a clean room environment. The
clean room steps employ multiple stages of photolithography, diffusion, thin
film metal deposition and both wet and dry etch process in the manufacturing
cycle. Finished wafers are electrically tested and may be shipped to customers
at this point. Transistor die from wafers, which continue in the manufacturing
process, are assembled into thermally conductive packages or modules and tested
prior to shipment to customers.

                                      -14-

<PAGE>

SOURCES OF RAW MATERIALS

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components
and equipment used in our products, including certain key materials and
equipment used in our crystal growth, wafering, polishing, epitaxial deposition,
device fabrication and device assembly processes. We generally purchase these
limited source items pursuant to purchase orders and have limited guaranteed
supply arrangements with our suppliers. In addition, the availability of these
materials, components and equipment to us is dependent in part on our ability to
provide our suppliers with accurate forecasts of our future requirements. We
endeavor to maintain ongoing communication with our suppliers to guard against
interruptions in supply and, to date, generally have been able to obtain
adequate supplies in a timely manner from our existing sources. However, any
interruption in the supply of these key materials, components or equipment could
have a significant adverse effect on our operations.

COMPETITION

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and is characterized by
rapid technological change, price erosion and substantial foreign competition.
We believe that our Cree segment currently enjoys a favorable position in the
existing markets for SiC-based products and materials. We also believe that our
Cree Microwave segment can become competitive in the market for silicon-based
LDMOS devices if it succeeds in qualifying its most recently introduced LDMOS
devices for volume production. However, we face actual and potential competition
from a number of established domestic and international compound semiconductor
companies. Many of these companies have greater engineering, manufacturing,
marketing and financial resources than we have.

Our primary competition for our optoelectronic products comes from companies
that manufacture and or sell nitride based LED chips. We consider Nichia
Corporation, or Nichia, Toyoda Gosei Co. Ltd., or Toyoda, and Lumileds Lighting
LLC, a joint venture between Agilent Technologies and Philips Lighting to be our
primary competitors. These companies currently market LED products made using
nitride materials on sapphire substrates, and Nichia markets short wavelength
nitride-based laser diodes. In addition, American Xtal Technology, Epistar,
Arima, UEC and other Asian based companies in recent years have begun production
of UV, blue and green LEDs, all on sapphire substrates. We attempt to closely
monitor the progress of Taiwanese competitors. We believe that these new
competitors have had some success in securing new business over the last few
quarters and could potentially become significant competitors in the future.
Historically, some of our existing competitors have been more successful in the
market for outdoor display applications because, prior to the release of our
MegaBright(TM) and XBright(TM) products, some sapphire devices were brighter
than our LEDs. We believe our new MegaBright(TM) and XBright(TM) devices will
enable us to compete successfully in this market.

We believe our approach to manufacturing UV; blue and green LEDs using SiC
substrates enables us to offer a cost-effective chip design. Our customers'
desired product attributes for nitride based LEDs are generally price and the
brightness of the devices for the intended applications. At times other factors
such as size or forward voltage of the device are also competitive factors.
Osram, which licensed certain LED technology from us in 1995, is currently
producing LEDs using nitride materials on SiC substrates. Shin-Etsu Handotai Co.
Ltd. also licensed certain LED technology from us in 1996 but never began
commercial production under this license.

The market for SiC wafers also is becoming more competitive, as other companies
in recent years have begun to offer SiC wafer products or announced plans to do
so, including Sterling Semiconductors, II-VI, Sixon and other small
manufacturers. To our knowledge, none of these competitors are currently

                                      -15-

<PAGE>

offering SiC wafers for use in device production, as their materials are
generally not considered to have production level quality. Our power devices,
which are currently available in limited quantities, compete with similar
devices offered by Infineon.

The markets served by Cree Microwave's LDMOS and bipolar products are
competitive. Motorola Incorporated, or Motorola, Infineon, which recently
acquired LDMOS capabilities from Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson, and Royal
Philips Electronic NV, or Phillips, currently manufacture competing products.
Currently, we believe Motorola dominates the marketplace with over 80% market
share due to superior performance and pricing. Cree Microwave is targeting to
release a new line of improved LDMOS products during the first quarter of fiscal
2003 that is intended to be comparable with the performance of Motorola parts at
a competitive price.

PATENTS AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

We seek to protect our proprietary technology by applying for patents where
appropriate and in other cases by preserving the technology and related know-how
and information as trade secrets. We have also from time to time acquired,
through license grants or assignments, rights to patents on inventions
originally developed by others. At June 30, 2002, we owned or held exclusive
rights licensed under a total of 133 issued U.S. patents, subject in some cases
to nonexclusive license rights held by third parties. These patents expire
between 2007 and 2020. Two of these patents are jointly owned with a third
party. Twenty-six of these patents relate primarily to our Cree Microwave
segment. In addition, we own or hold exclusive license rights under
corresponding patents and patent applications in various foreign countries.

Among the patent licenses we hold are exclusive licenses granted by North
Carolina State University, or NCSU, to U.S. and corresponding foreign patents
and patent applications that relate to SiC materials and device technology and
to GaN growth technology. These licenses include rights under patents and patent
applications relating to processes for growing single crystal SiC and low defect
GaN materials. The licenses are worldwide, exclusive licenses to manufacture,
use and sell products and processes covered by the claims of patents issued on
applications filed by NCSU relating to the licensed inventions. The U.S.
Government holds a non-exclusive license to practice certain of the inventions
for government purposes. The licenses relating to the growth of bulk single
crystal SiC and to other SiC materials and device technology are fully-paid,
while the licenses relating to growth of low defect GaN materials require us to
pay NCSU royalties on sales of products made using the licensed processes.

The patents we have licensed from NCSU relating to bulk SiC growth expire
beginning in 2007, and we may face increased competition in the market for SiC
materials as these patents expire. In addition, in the event our licenses to the
U.S. patents owned by NCSU relating to SiC growth were to be terminated under
the terms of our license agreement, we could potentially be enjoined from
practicing the patented process. In that event the business of our entire Cree
segment could be disrupted since the segment is critically dependent on our
ability to manufacture bulk single crystal SiC material. Similarly, if our
license to the patents relating to growth of low defect GaN materials were to be
terminated, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce
GaN-based laser diodes or other products manufactured using the patented
process.

We have also entered into license agreements with the licensing agencies of
other universities, and with other companies, under which we have obtained
exclusive or non-exclusive rights to practice inventions claimed in various
patents and applications issued or pending in the U.S. and other foreign
countries. We do not believe the financial obligations under these agreements,
or the loss of the licensed rights under any of these agreements, would have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or

                                      -16-

<PAGE>

results of operation. One of these license agreements includes license rights
granted to our Cree Lighting subsidiary by the Trustees of Boston University, or
Boston University, under certain U.S. patents and corresponding foreign patents
and patent applications which relate to the manufacture of certain GaN-based
structures on sapphire and other substrates. The license agreement with Boston
University grants Cree Lighting an exclusive, worldwide royalty-bearing license
under these patents and patent applications, subject to royalty payments and
other obligations under the license agreement. As described in Item 3 "Legal
Proceedings", at page 27, at June 30, 2002, Cree Lighting and Boston University
are parties to pending litigation in which they have alleged that Nichia and its
subsidiary, Nichia America Corporation, are infringing one of the licensed
patents. Termination of the license to this patent would end Cree Lighting's
right to assert the patent against future infringements.

For proprietary technology which is not patented or otherwise published, we seek
to protect the technology and related know-how and information as trade secrets
and to maintain it in confidence through appropriate non-disclosure agreements
with employees and others to whom the information is disclosed. There can be no
assurance that these agreements will provide meaningful protection against
unauthorized disclosure or use of our confidential information or that our
proprietary technology and know-how will not otherwise become known or
independently discovered by others. We also rely upon other intellectual
property rights such as trademarks and copyright where appropriate. We have
registered "Cree" and the Cree logo as a trademark for certain products in the
U.S. We have also applied for registration of several trademarks for our
products in the U.S. and other countries.

Because of rapid technological developments in the semiconductor industry, the
intellectual property position of any semiconductor materials or device
manufacturer, including Cree is subject to uncertainties and may involve complex
legal and factual issues. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued
on any of the pending applications owned or licensed to us or that claims
allowed in any patents issued or licensed to us will not be contested or
invalidated. There is likewise no assurance that patent rights owned or
exclusively licensed to us will provide significant commercial protection since
issuance of a patent does not prevent other companies from using alternative,
non-infringing technology. Further, we earn a material amount of our revenues in
overseas markets. While we hold and have applied for patent protection for
certain of our technologies in these markets, there can be no assurance that we
will obtain protection in all commercially significant foreign markets or that
our intellectual property rights will provide adequate protection in all such
markets.

Frequent claims and litigation involving patents and intellectual property
rights are common in the semiconductor industry. As of June 30, 2002, we were
parties to complex intellectual property litigation in the United States and
Japan with one of our competitors in the LED business, as described in Item 3
"Legal Proceedings", at page 27. We may become parties to other litigation in
the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend against
claims of infringement. Such litigation can be protracted and costly and divert
the attention of key personnel. There can be no assurance that third parties
will not attempt to assert infringement claims against us with respect to our
current or future products. We from time to time receive correspondence
asserting that our products or processes are or may be infringing patents or
other intellectual property rights of others. Our practice is to investigate
such claims to determine whether the assertions have merit and, if so, we take
appropriate steps to seek to obtain a license or to avoid the infringement.
However, we cannot predict whether past or future assertions of infringement may
result in litigation or the extent to which such assertions may require us to
seek a license under the rights asserted or whether a license would be available
or available on acceptable terms. Likewise, we cannot predict the occurrence of
future assertions of infringement that may prevent us from selling products,
result in litigation or require us to pay damage awards.

                                      -17-

<PAGE>

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

The Company is subject to a variety of federal, state and local provisions
enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or
otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These include statutory
and regulatory provisions under which we are responsible for the management of
hazardous materials we use and the disposition of hazardous wastes resulting
from our manufacturing processes. Failure to comply with such provisions,
whether intentional or inadvertent, could result in fines and other liabilities
to the government or third parties, injunctions requiring us to suspend or
curtail operations or other remedies, and could have a material adverse effect
on our business.

EMPLOYEES

As of June 30, 2002, we employed 893 people, including 678 in manufacturing
operations, 146 in research and development, and 69 in sales and general
administration. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or
subject to collective bargaining agreements.

CERTAIN BUSINESS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

Described below are various risks and uncertainties that may affect our
business. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, that we currently
deem immaterial or that are similar to those faced by other companies in our
industry or business in general may also affect our business. If any of the
risks described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or
results of future operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Our operating results and margins may fluctuate significantly.

Although we experienced significant revenue and earnings growth in past years,
we may not be able to sustain such growth or maintain our margins, and we may
experience significant fluctuations in our revenue, earnings and margins in the
future. For example, historically, the prices of our LEDs have declined based on
market trends. We have attempted to maintain our margins by constantly
developing improved or new products, which command higher prices or lower the
cost of LEDs. If we are unable to do so, our margins will decline. Our operating
results and margins may vary significantly in the future due to many factors,
including the following:

     -    our ability to develop, manufacture and deliver products in a timely
          and cost-effective manner;

     -    variations in the amount of usable product produced during
          manufacturing (our "yield");

     -    our ability to improve yields and reduce costs in order to allow lower
          product pricing without margin reductions;

     -    our ability to ramp up production for our new LED products;

     -    our ability to produce higher brightness and more efficient LED
          products that satisfy customer design requirements;

     -    our ability to develop new products that have specifications which
          meet the evolving needs of our customers, including smaller and
          thinner chips with lower forward voltage;

     -    our ability to complete customer product qualifications for our LDMOS
          8 products and ramp up production of those products;

     -    changes in demand for our products and our customers' products;

     -    changes in competitive landscape such as high volume and low pricing
          from Asian competitors;

                                      -18-

<PAGE>

     -    declining average sales prices for our products;

     -    changes in the mix of products we sell;

     -    changes in manufacturing capacity and variations in the utilization of
          that capacity; and

     -    damage to our manufacturing facility resulting from fire, flood, or
          otherwise as we only have one site for SiC production.

These or other factors could adversely affect our future operating results and
margins. If our future operating results or margins are below the expectations
of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline.

If we experience poor production yields, our margins could decline and our
operating results may suffer.

Our SiC material products and our LED, power and RF device products are
manufactured using technologies that are highly complex. We manufacture our SiC
wafer products from bulk SiC crystals, and we use these SiC wafers to
manufacture our LED products and our SiC-based RF and power semiconductors. Our
Cree Microwave subsidiary manufactures its RF semiconductors on silicon wafers
purchased from others. During our manufacturing process, each wafer is processed
to contain numerous "die," which are the individual semiconductor devices, and
the RF power devices are further processed by incorporating them into a package
for sale as a packaged component. The number of usable crystals, wafers, die and
packaged components that result from our production processes can fluctuate as a
result of many factors, including but not limited to the following:

     -    impurities in the materials used;

     -    contamination of the manufacturing environment;

     -    equipment failure, power outages or variations in the manufacturing
          process;

     -    losses from broken wafers or human errors; and

     -    defects in packaging.

We refer to the proportion of usable product produced at each manufacturing step
relative to the gross number that could be constructed from the materials used
as our manufacturing "yield." Since many of our manufacturing costs are fixed,
if our yields decrease, our margins could decline and our operating results
would be adversely affected. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in
achieving acceptable yields on new products, which has adversely affected our
operating results. We may experience similar problems in the future and we
cannot predict when they may occur or their severity. In some instances, we may
offer products for future delivery at prices based on planned yield
improvements. Reduced yields or failure to achieve planned yield improvements
could significantly affect our future margins and operating results.

Our business and our ability to produce our products may be impaired by claims
we infringe intellectual property of others.

Vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights characterize the
semiconductor industry. These traits have resulted in significant and often
protracted and expensive litigation. Litigation to determine the validity of
patents or claims by third parties of infringement of patents or other
intellectual property rights could result in significant expense and divert the
efforts of our technical personnel and management, even if the litigation
results in a determination favorable to us. In the event of an adverse result in
such litigation, we could be required to:

                                      -19-

<PAGE>

     -    pay substantial damages;

     -    indemnify our customers;

     -    stop the manufacture, use and sale of products found to be infringing;

     -    discontinue the use of processes found to be infringing;

     -    expend significant resources to develop non-infringing products and
          processes; and/or

     -    obtain a license to use third party technology.

Where we consider it necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under patents
or other intellectual property rights. However, we cannot be certain that
licenses will be available or that we would find the terms of licenses offered
acceptable or commercially reasonable. Failure to obtain a necessary license
could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and costs and to suspend the
manufacture of products. In addition, if adverse results in litigation made it
necessary for us to seek a license or to develop non-infringing products or
processes, there is no assurance we would be successful in developing such
products or processes or in negotiating licenses upon reasonable terms or at
all. Our results of operations, financial condition and business could be harmed
if such problems were not resolved in a timely manner.

Our distributor in Japan is presently a party to patent litigation in Japan
brought by Nichia, in which the plaintiff claims that certain of our LED
products infringe Japanese patents it owns. The complaints in the proceedings
seek injunctive relief that would prohibit our distributor from further sales of
these products in Japan. The district court ruled in our favor in both lawsuits,
but Nichia has appealed these rulings. An adverse result in either of these
cases would impair our ability to sell the particular LED products at issue in
Japan and could cause customers not to purchase other LED products from us in
Japan and elsewhere. Subject to contractual limitations, we have an obligation
to defend and indemnify our distributor for patent infringement claims.

We have also initiated patent infringement litigation in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina against Nichia and one
of its subsidiaries, asserting patent infringement with respect to certain
Nichia nitride-based semiconductor products, including laser diode products.
Nichia has responded with counterclaims alleging, among other things, patent
infringement claims against us based on four U.S. patents directed to nitride
semiconductor technology. In addition, Nichia alleges trade secret
misappropriation and related claims against Cree Lighting and a former Nichia
researcher who is now employed by Cree Lighting on a part-time basis and Cree.
The court has directed that the claims against Cree Lighting be transferred to
the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The
court has orally granted our motion for summary judgment in which we requested
dismissal of Nichia's trade secret and related claims against Cree. An adverse
result under Nichia's patent infringement counterclaims, which remain in the
case, may impair our ability to sell our LED and laser diode products and could
include a substantial damage award against us.

We also have been named as a defendant to a counterclaim of Nichia in a lawsuit
pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The
complaint in the underlying action, which was brought by Rohm Co., Ltd., or Rohm
against Nichia Corporation and Nichia America Corporation, alleges that Nichia
is infringing certain U.S. patents owned by Rohm. Nichia's counterclaim alleges
that Rohm and we violated antitrust laws by conspiring to exclude Nichia from
the U.S. market for high brightness LEDs. The counterclaim seeks actual and
treble damages, attorneys' fees and court costs. We have moved to dismiss the
counterclaim for lack of personal jurisdiction.

                                      -20-

<PAGE>

Our Cree Lighting subsidiary has also initiated litigation, now pending in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina against
Nichia and one of its subsidiaries asserting patent infringement with respect to
gallium nitride-based semiconductor technology useful in manufacturing certain
LEDs and laser diode devices. The lawsuit seeks damages and an injunction
against infringement.

We believe the claims asserted against our products in the Japanese cases and
the claims asserted against us in the U.S. cases are without merit, and we
intend to vigorously defend against the charges. However, we cannot be certain
that we will be successful, and litigation may require us to spend a substantial
amount of time and money and could distract management from our day-to-day
operations. Litigation costs to date in these cases have been substantial, and
variability in these costs could adversely affect our financial results. If any
of these cases were decided against us, the result would have a material adverse
effect on our operations and financial condition.

There are limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property.

Our intellectual property position is based in part on patents owned by us and
patents exclusively licensed to us by NCSU, Boston University and others. The
licensed patents include patents relating to the SiC crystal growth process that
is central to our SiC materials and device business. We intend to continue to
file patent applications in the future, where appropriate, and to pursue such
applications with U.S. and foreign patent authorities. However, we cannot be
sure that patents will be issued on such applications or that our existing or
future patents will not be successfully contested by third parties. Also, since
issuance of a valid patent does not prevent other companies from using
alternative, non-infringing technology, we cannot be sure that any of our
patents (or patents issued to others and licensed to us) will provide
significant commercial protection.

In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets and other
non-patented proprietary information relating to our product development and
manufacturing activities. We try to protect this information through appropriate
efforts to maintain its secrecy, including requiring employees and third parties
to sign confidentiality agreements. We cannot be sure that these efforts will be
successful or that the confidentiality agreements will not be breached. We also
can not be sure that we would have adequate remedies for any breach of such
agreements or other misappropriation of our trade secrets, or that our trade
secrets and proprietary know-how will not otherwise become known or be
independently discovered by others.

Where necessary, we may initiate litigation to enforce our patent or other
intellectual property rights, but there is no assurance that we will be
successful in any such litigation. Moreover, litigation may require us to spend
a substantial amount of time and money and could distract management from our
day-to-day operations.

If we are unable to produce adequate quantities of our MegaBright(TM) and
XBright(TM) LED products and improve our yields, our operating results may
suffer.

We believe that achieving higher volume production and lower production costs
for our MegaBright(TM) and XBright(TM) LED products will be important to our
future operating results. We must reduce costs of these products to avoid margin
reductions from the lower selling prices we may offer due to our competitive
environment and/or to satisfy prior contractual commitments. Achieving greater
volumes and lower costs requires improved production yields for these products.
We recently redesigned our XBright(TM) LED product to address certain
difficulties in packaging the devices identified by some customers following the
introduction of the product, and we are planning to manufacture the redesigned
products in

                                      -21-

<PAGE>

volume. We may encounter manufacturing difficulties as we ramp up our capacity
to make these products. Our failure to produce adequate quantities and improve
the yields of these products could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our
customers may encounter difficulties with their manufacturing processes using
our XBright(TM) devices, which could increase product returns and impact
customer demand, each of which would have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our operating results are substantially dependent on the development of new
products based on our core SiC technology.

Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new SiC solutions for
existing and new markets. We must introduce new products in a timely and
cost-effective manner, and we must secure production orders from our customers.

The development of new SiC products is a highly complex process, and we have
historically experienced delays in completing the development and introduction
of new products. Products currently under development include larger high
quality substrates and epitaxy, high power RF and microwave devices, power
devices, blue laser diodes and higher brightness LED products. The successful
development and introduction of these products depends on a number of factors,
including the following:

     -    achievement of technology breakthroughs required to make commercially
          viable devices;

     -    the accuracy of our predictions of market requirements and evolving
          standards;

     -    acceptance of our new product designs;

     -    the availability of qualified development personnel;

     -    our timely completion of product designs and development;

     -    our ability to develop repeatable processes to manufacture new
          products in sufficient quantities for commercial sales;

     -    our customers' ability to develop applications incorporating our
          products; and

     -    acceptance of our customers' products by the market.

If any of these or other factors become problematic, we may not be able to
develop and introduce these new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner.

We face risks of reduced revenue under our contract with Spectrian if we cannot
complete product qualification on a timely basis or ramp up production of our
LDMOS 8 products.

Revenues of our Cree Microwave segment are dependent on our amended Supply
Agreement with Spectrian. If we are unable to complete the full product
qualification process and ramp up production of our recently released LDMOS 8
products adequately, Spectrian may reduce the amount it purchases during the
applicable quarter under the agreement, subject to the satisfaction of certain
conditions. Consequently, our results of operations could be adversely affected
by further delays in qualifying our LDMOS 8 products. In addition, if we are
unable to supply other products that meet or exceed the specifications of
certain competitive parts designated by Spectrian, Spectrian may purchase those
products from other vendors. In that case, the purchased quantities will be
deducted from the minimum quantities required to be purchased from us under the
Supply Agreement. The resulting reduction in revenue could have an adverse
effect on our results of operations.

                                      -22-

<PAGE>

We depend on a few large customers.

Historically, a substantial portion of our revenue has come from large purchases
by a small number of customers. For example, for fiscal 2002 our top five
customers (excluding government contracts and including Sumitomo, which
represents several Japanese customers) accounted for 64% of our total revenue.
Accordingly, our future operating results depend on the success of our largest
customers and on our success in selling large quantities of our products to
them. The concentration of our revenues with a few large customers makes us
particularly dependent on factors affecting those customers. For example, if
demand for their products decreases, they may limit or stop purchasing our
products and our operating results will suffer. If we lose a large customer and
fail to add new customers to replace lost revenue, our operating results may not
recover.

When customers provide only limited advance notice of firm orders, our business
and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in customer
demand.

We sell to our largest LED customer based on a rolling forecast of which only a
limited period reflects firm orders. Any change in this customer's demand or
forecast could have a material adverse impact on our business as the timing and
quantities of our production may not match demand or our overall demand may
decline. For example, we may be left with additional inventory on hand or we may
not have sufficient capacity to satisfy all of our contractual commitments,
which could have adverse consequences under our existing contracts.

Recently, we have experienced a trend towards smaller customers gaining design
wins from our larger customers for finished products incorporating our LEDs.
While in the short term, this trend may lead to increased sales to smaller
customers and an increase in the portion of our revenue that they represent, the
long term effects of this trend are uncertain. In addition, smaller customers
typically do not commit up front to purchase a specified volume over a long
period of time, which reduces our ability to predict and maintain a steady
stream of orders and revenue as sales to smaller customers increase as a
percentage of revenue.

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive.

The markets for our LED, laser and RF and microwave power semiconductor products
are highly competitive. New firms have begun offering UV, blue and green LEDs.
In the RF power semiconductor field, the products manufactured by Cree Microwave
compete with products offered by substantially larger competitors which have
dominated the market to date based on product quality and pricing. The market
for SiC wafers is also becoming competitive as other firms have in recent years
begun offering SiC wafer products or announced plans to do so. We also expect
significant competition for products we are currently developing, such as those
for use in microwave communications and power switching.

We expect competition to increase. This could mean lower prices for our
products, reduced demand for our products and a corresponding reduction in our
ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. Or
competitors could invent disruptive technology that may make our products
obsolete. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

We face significant challenges managing our growth.

We have experienced a period of significant growth that has challenged our
management and other resources. We have grown from 248 employees on June 28,
1998 to 893 employees on June 30, 2002 and from revenues of $44.0 million for
the fiscal year ended June 28, 1998 to $155.4 million for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2002. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to:

                                      -23-

<PAGE>

     -    implement and improve operating systems, which are effective and
          efficient;

     -    maintain adequate manufacturing facilities and equipment to meet
          customer demand;

     -    improve the skills and capabilities of our current management team;

     -    add experienced senior level managers; and

     -    attract and retain qualified people with experience in engineering,
          design and technical marketing support.

We will spend substantial amounts of money in supporting our growth and may have
additional unexpected costs. Our systems, procedures or controls may not be
adequate to support our operations, and we may not be able to expand quickly
enough to exploit potential market opportunities. Our future operating results
will also depend on expanding sales and marketing, research and development, and
administrative support. If we cannot attract qualified people or manage growth
effectively, our business operating results and financial condition could be
adversely affected.

Performance of our investments in other companies could negatively affect our
financial condition.

From time to time, we have made investments in public and private companies that
engage in complementary businesses. Should the value of these investments
decline, the related write-down in value could have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition as reflected in our balance sheets. In addition, if the
decline in value is determined to be "other than temporary", the related
write-down could have a material adverse effect on our reported net income. For
example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002 we recorded a non-operating charge
of $30.1 million (pre-tax) relating to the declines in the value of equity
investments determined to be "other than temporary" as a result of continued
depressed market conditions. Each of these investments is subject to the risks
inherent in the business of the company in which we have invested and to trends
affecting the equity markets as a whole. Our private company investments are
subject to additional risks relating to the limitations on transferability of
our interests due to the lack of a public market and to other transfer
restrictions. Our public company investments are subject to market risks and
also can be subject to contractual limitations on transferability. As a result,
we may not be able to reduce the size of our positions or liquidate our
investments when we deem appropriate to limit our downside risk.

Our operating results could be adversely affected if we encounter difficulty
transitioning production to a larger wafer size.

We are in the process of gradually shifting production of some products from
two-inch wafers, to two and one quarter and three-inch wafers. We must first
qualify our production processes on systems designed to accommodate the larger
wafer size, and some of our existing production equipment must be refitted for
the larger wafer size. Delays in this process could have an adverse effect on
our business. In addition, in the past we have experienced lower yields for a
period of time following a transition to a larger wafer size until use of the
larger wafer is fully integrated in production and we begin to achieve
production efficiency. We anticipate that we will experience similar temporary
yield reductions during the transition to the two and one quarter and three-inch
wafers, and we have factored this into our plan for production capacity. If this
transition phase takes longer than we expect or if we are unable to attain
expected yield improvements, our operating results may be adversely affected.

We rely on a few key suppliers.

                                      -24-

<PAGE>

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain raw materials, components
and equipment used in manufacturing our products, including key materials and
equipment used in critical stages of our manufacturing processes. We generally
purchase these limited source items with purchase orders, and we have no
guaranteed supply arrangements with such suppliers. If we were to lose such key
suppliers, our manufacturing operations could be interrupted or hampered
significantly.

If government agencies or other customers discontinue or curtail their funding
for our research and development programs our business may suffer.

In the past, government agencies and other customers have funded a significant
portion of our research and development activities. Government contracts are
subject to the risk that the government agency may not appropriate and allocate
all funding contemplated by the contract. In addition, our government contracts
generally permit the contracting authority to terminate the contracts for the
convenience of the government, and the full value of the contracts would not be
realized if they are prematurely terminated. If government and customer funding
is discontinued or reduced, our ability to develop or enhance products could be
limited, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could
be adversely affected.

If our products fail to perform or meet customer requirements, we could incur
significant additional costs.

The manufacture of our products involves highly complex processes. Our customers
specify quality, performance and reliability standards that we must meet. If our
products do not meet these standards, we may be required to replace or rework
the products. In some cases our products may contain undetected defects or flaws
that only become evident after shipment. We have experienced product quality,
performance or reliability problems from time to time. Defects or failures may
occur in the future. If failures or defects occur, we could:

     -    lose revenue;

     -    incur increased costs, such as warranty expense and costs associated
          with customer support;

     -    experience delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders for our
          products;

     -    experience increased product returns;

     -    write-down existing inventory; or

     -    experience product returns.

We are subject to risks from international sales.

Sales to customers located outside the U.S. accounted for about 65%, 69% and 69%
of our revenue in fiscal 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. We expect that
revenue from international sales will continue to be a significant part of our
total revenue. International sales are subject to a variety of risks, including
risks arising from currency fluctuations, trading restrictions, tariffs, trade
barriers and taxes. Also, U.S. Government export controls could restrict or
prohibit the exportation of products with defense applications. Because all of
our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars, our products become less
price competitive in countries with currencies that are low or are declining in
value against the U.S. dollar. Also, if we experience substantial changes in the
U.S. dollar currency exchange as compared to the Japanese yen, our sales
opportunities may be reduced as our primary competitors may offer more favorable
pricing. Also, we cannot be sure that our international customers will continue
to place orders denominated in U.S. dollars. If they do not, our reported
revenue and earnings will be subject to foreign exchange fluctuations.

                                      -25-

<PAGE>

If we fail to integrate acquisitions successfully, our business will be harmed.

We completed two strategic acquisitions during calendar year 2000. We will
continue to evaluate strategic opportunities available to us, and we may pursue
other product, technology or business acquisitions. Such acquisitions can
present many types of risks, including the following:

     -    we may fail to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of
          newly acquired companies with our existing business;

     -    we may experience difficulties integrating our financial and operating
          systems;

     -    our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient
          management attention;

     -    we may not cost-effectively and rapidly incorporate acquired
          technology;

     -    we may not be able to recognize cost savings or other financial
          benefits we anticipated;

     -    acquired businesses may fail to meet our performance expectations;

     -    we may lose key employees of acquired businesses;

     -    we may not be able to retain the existing customers of newly acquired
          operations;

     -    our corporate culture may clash with that of the acquired businesses;
          and

     -    we may incur undiscovered liabilities associated with acquired
          businesses that are not covered by indemnification we may obtain from
          the seller.

We may not successfully address these risks or other problems that arise from
our recent or future acquisitions. In addition, in connection with future
acquisitions, we may issue equity securities that could dilute the percentage
ownership of our existing shareholders, we may incur debt and we may be required
to amortize expenses related to intangible assets that may negatively affect our
results or operations.

We depend on design trends in mobile phones to drive a large percentage of LED
demand.

Our results of operations could be adversely affected by reduced customer demand
for LED products for use in wireless handsets. We derive a significant portion
of our LED product revenue from sales to customers who use our LED products in
wireless handsets, and customer demand is dependent upon trends in the wireless
market. We believe the growth for the global market for wireless handsets has
slowed and may be declining. As a result, our ability to maintain or increase
our LED product revenue depends on the number of models into which customers
design our products. Also, design cycles in the handset industry are short, and
demand is volatile, which makes production planning difficult to forecast.

Item 2.   Properties

We own our facilities in Durham, North Carolina where the business for our Cree
segment is conducted. In November 1997, we acquired our present manufacturing
facility, a 30-acre industrial site in Durham, North Carolina, which originally
consisted of a 139,000 square foot production building and 33,000 square feet of
service and warehouse buildings. In fiscal 2000 and fiscal 2002, we completed
two expansions that increased the size of these facilities by 42,000 square feet
and 147,000 square feet, respectively. During fiscal 1999 we purchased
approximately 80 acres of undeveloped land near our production facilities for
potential expansion purposes. We have installed a small electrical substation on
this site for use in transmitting power to our production facilities but have
not otherwise developed the

                                      -26-

<PAGE>

land. During fiscal 2000, we purchased a 120,000 square foot building on 17.5
acres of land near our existing production site. We subsequently upfitted
approximately two-thirds of the building for use as meeting rooms and
administrative offices and as an employee services center.

We lease a separate building in Durham, North Carolina that was recently used by
our Cree segment for production of SiC-based RF and microwave devices and
related research and development. We have relocated these operations to our main
production site and no longer use the space. This lease expires in September
2002 and will not be renewed.

We lease through our Cree Japan subsidiary, a sales and marketing office in
Tokyo, Japan that is used to support our Japan distributor's sales of Cree
segment products. This three-year lease agreement expires in June 2005. We also
contract, through our Cree Asia-Pacific subsidiary, office space in Kowloon,
Hong Kong that is used in our Cree segment to provide sales and marketing
support in Southeast Asia. The agreement for use of this space expires in
February 2003 unless renewed by the parties.

The Cree Microwave facility is approximately 49,600 square feet of
administrative and manufacturing space located in Sunnyvale, California. We
sublease the premises from Spectrian through our Cree Microwave subsidiary,
which entered into the sublease agreement with Spectrian in December 2000 in
connection with our acquisition of the Cree Microwave business. Spectrian leased
the facility from its landlord in November 1996 for a 15-year term under lease
terms that included three options to extend the lease for up to an additional
fifteen years. Under the sublease between Cree Microwave and Spectrian, if
Spectrian exercises its option to extend the term of its master lease with its
landlord, Cree Microwave may also exercise an option to extend the sublease. We
have guaranteed the obligations of our subsidiary under the sublease.

Cree Lighting leases two facilities in Goleta, California for our Cree segment.
One facility, which covers 35,840 square feet, has a five-year lease that was
signed in August 2000 with an option to extend the lease for another five-year
period. This facility is used for research and development and administration.
Cree has guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary under this lease. Cree
Lighting has sub-leased 10,217 square feet of this facility to a third party.
This two-year sub-lease agreement was entered into in October 2000 and was
terminated in July 2002. A new two-year sub-lease for 10,217 square feet with a
new tenant was entered into in July 2002 and will expire in July 2004. Cree
Lighting also leases an additional facility on a month to month basis that is
used for research and development. We have given notice to terminate this lease
in August 2002.

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings

Foreign Legal Proceedings

Nichia Corporation v. Sumitomo Corporation: In December 1999, one of our
distributors, Sumitomo, was named in a lawsuit filed by Nichia in Japan in the
Tokyo District Court. The complaint in the proceeding was directed to our
standard brightness LED products and alleged that these products infringe a
Japanese patent owned by Nichia, Japanese Patent No. 2,918,139. The suit sought
a permanent injunction against further distribution of the products in Japan. We
intervened in the proceeding and filed a response denying the allegations of
infringement. In May 2001 the Tokyo District Court ruled in favor of Cree and
Sumitomo, finding no infringement, and dismissed the complaint. Nichia has
appealed the ruling to the Tokyo High Court.

In April 2000, Nichia commenced two additional lawsuits against Sumitomo in
Tokyo District Court in which it alleged that our high brightness LED products
infringe a second Japanese patent owned by

                                      -27-

<PAGE>

Nichia, Japanese Patent No. 2,778,405. The suits sought preliminary and
permanent injunctions against further distribution of the products in Japan. We
intervened in the proceeding and filed responses denying the allegations of
infringement. In October 2001, following an adverse ruling in a separate case on
the validity of the patent, Nichia dismissed the complaint seeking a preliminary
injunction, leaving the complaint for a permanent injunction pending. In
December 2001 the Tokyo District Court ruled in favor of Cree and Sumitomo in
the remaining lawsuit, finding no infringement, and dismissed the complaint.
Nichia has appealed the ruling to the Tokyo High Court.

Rohm Co., Ltd. v Nichia Corporation: In July 2001, Rohm Co., Ltd., or Rohm,
filed a complaint against Nichia in the Tokyo District Court. Rohm seeks a
ruling that sales of its products that incorporate our standard brightness LED
products do not infringe the patent that was the subject of Nichia's December
1999 lawsuit, Japanese Patent No. 2,918,139. We intervened in this proceeding in
December 2001 to assist in showing that our standard brightness LED products do
not infringe the patent. The case remains pending before the district court.

Domestic Legal Proceedings

North Carolina State University and Cree, Inc. v. Nichia Corporation and others:
On September 22, 2000, NCSU and Cree commenced a patent infringement lawsuit
against Nichia and its subsidiary, Nichia America Corporation, or Nichia
America, in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina.
The complaint seeks enforcement of a patent, U.S. Patent No. 6,051,849, relating
to GaN-based semiconductors manufactured using lateral epitaxial overgrowth
technology, which permits the growth of high quality GaN-based materials useful
in manufacturing certain laser diodes and other devices. The patent was issued
to NCSU in April 2000 and is licensed to Cree on an exclusive basis under an
agreement executed in June 1999.

In their answer to the complaint, Nichia and Nichia America denied infringement
and asserted a counterclaim seeking a declaratory judgment that the subject
patent is invalid and not infringed. Nichia further alleged in its counterclaim
that we are infringing four of its U.S. patents relating to nitride
semiconductor technology, U.S. Patent Nos. 5,306,662; 5,578,839; 5,747,832; and
5,767,581. Nichia also asserted misappropriation of trade secrets and related
claims against Cree and a former Nichia researcher now employed by one of our
subsidiaries, Cree Lighting, on a part-time basis. In addition, as subsequently
amended, Nichia's counterclaim named Cree Lighting as a counterclaim defendant
on trade secret and related claims and asserted claims under the Computer Fraud
and Abuse Act against the Cree Lighting employee.

We have replied to the patent infringement claims of Nichia's amended
counterclaim, denying any infringement and asserting a claim seeking a
declaratory judgement that the four Nichia patents at issue are invalid,
unenforceable and not infringed. The Cree Lighting employee and we have also
replied to the trade secret and related claims in the amended counterclaim,
denying any liability. We included with our reply a claim for damages in which
we have alleged that Nichia's actions in bringing the counterclaim for patent
infringement were not taken for any legitimate purpose and constitute unfair
competition in violation of North Carolina law.

In response to Nichia's amended counterclaim, the Cree Lighting employee named
as a counterclaim co-defendant also moved to dismiss the claims against him
under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. The court granted the motion in April
2002 and dismissed the claims, finding that Nichia had failed to state
claims upon which relief could be granted. Cree Lighting also moved to dismiss,
or in the alternative to transfer, Nichia's claims against it for lack of proper
venue. In March 2002 the court found that it lacked

                                      -28-

<PAGE>

venue over the claims Nichia had asserted against Cree Lighting and directed
that the claims be transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Central
District of California.

In December 2000 Nichia America filed a motion for summary judgement seeking
dismissal of the patent infringement claims Cree and NCSU have asserted. In
support of the motion Nichia argued that the relevant claims of the patent, U.S.
Patent No. 6,051,849, which relate to certain lateral epitaxial overgrowth
technology, were invalid as a matter of law on grounds of indefiniteness. The
North Carolina district court denied the motion April 2002, and the claims NCSU
and we asserted under this patent remain pending.

In January 2002, Cree and the Cree Lighting employee named as a counterclaim
co-defendant moved for summary judgment dismissing Nichia's trade secret
misappropriation and related claims. The motion sought dismissal on the ground
that Nichia had failed to specify any trade secrets that would support the
claims. At a hearing in July 2002, the North Carolina district court orally
informed counsel that the court was granting the motion. Although a written
order confirming the ruling has not yet been entered, we understand that the
trade secret misappropriated claims against Cree and the Cree Lighting employee,
and at least some of the related non-patent claims, have been or will be
dismissed upon entry of a written order confirming the court's oral ruling.

Also in January 2002, Nichia moved to strike certain of our defenses to its
patent infringement claims and to preclude us from obtaining or using any
evidence concerning those defenses. Nichia alleged in support of the motion that
the defenses were based upon information improperly disclosed by the Cree
Lighting employee and counterclaim co-defendant. Nichia filed an amended motion
to strike in May 2002 in which it sought the same relief. At a hearing in July
2002, the court advised counsel orally that the motion to strike was denied. As
a result our patent infringement defenses Nichia challenged remain available to
us to prove in future proceedings in the case.

Although there can be no assurances of success, we believe the counterclaims
asserted in the North Carolina case are without merit and we intend to defend
against them vigorously.

Trustees of Boston University and Cree Lighting Company v. Nichia Corporation
and others: On May 3, 2001, Boston University and Cree Lighting commenced a
patent infringement lawsuit against Nichia and Nichia America in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California. The defendants moved to
transfer the case to the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North
Carolina, and the case was transferred to the North Carolina district court in
October 2001.

In their complaint Boston University and Cree Lighting allege that Nichia and
Nichia America infringe a patent, U.S. Patent No. 5,686,738, relating to
GaN-based semiconductor technology useful in manufacturing certain LED and other
semiconductor devices. The patent was issued to Boston University in 1997 and is
licensed to Cree Lighting under a March 2001 agreement. In the complaint, Cree
Lighting and Boston University allege that the defendants are infringing the
patent by, among other things, importing, selling and offering for sale in the
United States certain GaN-based light emitting devices covered by one or more
claims of the patent. The complaint seeks damages and an injunction against
infringement.

Rohm Co. Ltd, v. Nichia Corporation and others: In November 2001, we were served
with pleadings in which Cree was named as a defendant to a counterclaim of
Nichia and Nichia America in a lawsuit pending in the U.S. District Court for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The complaint in the underlying action,
which was brought by Rohm against Nichia and Nichia America, alleges that Nichia
is infringing certain U.S. patents owned by Rohm. Nichia's counterclaim, as
amended in December 2001,

                                      -29-

<PAGE>

names both Rohm and us as counterclaim defendants and alleges that we violated
antitrust laws by conspiring with Rohm to exclude Nichia from the U.S. market
for high brightness LEDs. The counterclaim seeks actual and treble damages,
attorneys' fees and court costs. We have moved to dismiss the counterclaim for
lack of personal jurisdiction. Rohm has separately moved to dismiss certain
counts of the counterclaims, including those asserted against us, for failure to
state a claim on which relief can be granted. Both motions remain pending.

Although there can be no assurances of success, we believe the claims asserted
in the Pennsylvania case are without merit and we intend to defend against them
vigorously.

Other Litigation: We are also a party to certain other pending litigation
arising in the normal course of business. While we cannot predict the final
outcome of such litigation with certainty, we believe, based on consultation
with legal counsel, that the outcome of such other matters would not materially
affect our financial condition or results of operations.

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2002.


                                     PART II

Item 5.   Market Price for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
          Matters

Common Stock Market Information. Our common stock is traded in the Nasdaq
National Market and is quoted under the symbol "CREE". The following table sets
forth, for the quarters indicated the high and low sales prices as reported by
Nasdaq. Quotations represent interdealer prices without an adjustment for retail
markups, markdowns or commissions and may not represent actual transactions.

                                  FY 2002                     FY 2001*
                                  -------                     --------
                           High             Low         High              Low
                           ----             ---         ----              ---
      First Quarter      $ 27.500        $ 14.090    $ 81.719          $ 42.375
      Second Quarter       29.730          13.761      64.125            27.750
      Third Quarter        33.320          12.400      40.500            14.870
      Fourth Quarter       14.340          10.350      36.650            12.210

      *As adjusted for the two-for-one split effective on December 1, 2000.

Holders and Dividends. There were approximately 718 holders of record of our
common stock as of August 1, 2002.

We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate that
we will do so in the foreseeable future. There are no contractual restrictions
in place that currently materially limit, or are likely in the future to
materially limit, us from paying dividends on our common stock, but applicable

                                      -30-

<PAGE>

state law may limit the payment of dividends. Our present policy is to retain
earnings, if any, to provide funds for the operation and expansion of our
business. There were no sales of unregistered securities during fiscal 2002.

     Equity Compensation Plan information will be provided under Item 12.

                                      -31-

<PAGE>

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data

The consolidated statement of operations data set forth below with respect to
the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000 and the
consolidated balance sheet data at June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001 are derived
from, and are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated financial
statements included elsewhere in this report and should be read in conjunction
with those financial statements and notes thereto. The consolidated statement of
operations data for the years ended June 27, 1999 and June 28, 1998 and the
consolidated balance sheet data at June 25, 2000, June 27, 1999 and June 28,
1998 are derived from audited consolidated financial statements not included
herein. All consolidated statement of operations and consolidated balance sheet
data shown below are adjusted to reflect the acquisition of Nitres, now known as
Cree Lighting, effective May 1, 2000. This transaction was accounted for under
the "pooling of interests" method. We acquired the business comprising the Cree
Microwave segment in December 2000. This transaction was accounted for under the
purchase method. All share amounts have been restated to reflect our two-for-one
stock splits effective July 26, 1999 and December 1, 2000.

                      Selected Consolidated Financial Data
                      (In thousands, except per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               Years Ended
                                                   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       June 30,       June 24,     June 25,       June 27,     June 28,
                                                         2002           2001         2000           1999         1998
                                                       --------       --------     --------       --------     --------
<S>                                                <C>               <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Statement of Operations Data:
Product revenue, net                                 $  136,230      $159,533      $ 96,742      $ 53,424      $ 34,891
Contract revenue, net                                    19,204        17,694        11,820         8,977         9,071
                                                        -------       -------       -------        ------        ------
Total revenue                                           155,434       177,227       108,562        62,401        43,962

Net (loss) income                                     ($101,723)     $ 27,843      $ 30,520      $ 12,448      $  6,243

Net (loss) income per share, basic                      ($ 1.40)     $   0.39      $   0.46      $   0.21      $   0.11
Net (loss) income per share, diluted                    ($ 1.40)     $   0.37      $   0.43      $   0.20      $   0.11

Weighted average shares outstanding:
Basic                                                    72,718        72,243        65,930        58,030        55,452
Diluted                                                  72,718        75,735        70,434        60,864        57,974
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     As of
                                                   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       June 30,       June 24,     June 25,       June 27,     June 28,
                                                         2002           2001         2000           1999         1998
                                                       --------       --------     --------       --------     -------
<S>                                                <C>               <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Balance Sheet Data:
Working capital                                        $151,851      $244,178      $265,957      $ 59,889       $28,265
Total assets                                            504,195       615,123       486,202       145,933        74,379
Long-term obligations                                        --            --            --         4,650        11,046
Shareholders' equity                                    482,104       589,097       463,142       131,003        55,905
</TABLE>

                                      -32-

<PAGE>

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations

All statements, trend analysis and other information contained in the following
discussion relative to markets for our products and trends in revenue, gross
margins, and anticipated expense levels, as well as other statements, including
words such as "may," "will," "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate,"
"expect," and "intend" and other similar expressions constitute forward-looking
statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business, economic
and other risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, and our actual
results of operations may differ materially from those contained in the
forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such
differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in "Certain
Business Risks and Uncertainties" in Item 1 of this report, as well as other
risks and uncertainties referenced in this report.

Business Overview

We are the world leaders in developing and manufacturing compound semiconductor
materials and electronic devices made from SiC and a leading developer and
manufacturer of optoelectronic and electronic devices made from GaN and related
materials on SiC substrates. We derive the largest portion of our revenue from
the sale of near ultra-violet, or UV, blue and green light emitting diodes or
LEDs. We currently offer LEDs at three brightness levels:

     -    XBright(TM)UV, blue and green products;

     -    mid-brightness UV, blue and green products, which include
          MegaBright(TM), UltraBright(TM) and high brightness InGaN devices; and

     -    standard brightness blue products.

Our LED devices are utilized by end users as a lighting source for wireless
handsets, automotive dashboard lighting, indicator lamps, miniature white
lights, indoor and outdoor full color displays and signs, traffic signals and
other lighting applications. We recognize product revenue at the time of
shipment in accordance with the terms of the relevant contract. When our
inventory is maintained at a consigned location, revenue is recognized when our
customer pulls products for their use. LED products represented 58% of our
revenue in fiscal 2002 and 65% in fiscal 2001.

During fiscal 2002 and fiscal 2001, approximately 16% and 11%, respectively, of
our revenue came from the sales of RF and microwave devices from our Cree
Microwave segment. These RF power transistors are the semiconductor content for
power amplifiers that are used in base stations for cellular networks. We also
derive revenue from the sale of advanced materials made from SiC that are used
for manufacturing LEDs and power devices by our customers, or for research and
development for new semiconductor applications. Sales of SiC material products
represented 13% of our revenue in fiscal 2002 and approximately 14% during
fiscal 2001. We received no significant revenues from sales of power devices or
SiC based RF devices in fiscal 2002 or fiscal 2001.

The balance of our revenue, 12% for fiscal 2002 and 10% in fiscal 2001 is
derived from contract funding. Under various programs, U.S. Government entities
further the development of our technology by funding our research and
development efforts. Contract revenue includes funding for direct research and
development costs and a portion of our general and administrative expenses and
other operating expenses for contracts under which we expect funding to exceed
direct costs over the life of the contract. For contracts under which we
anticipate that direct costs will exceed amounts to be funded over the life of

                                      -33-

<PAGE>

the contract, we report direct costs as research and development expenses with
related reimbursements recorded as an offset to those expenses.

Fiscal 2002 Overview

We completed the introduction of our MegaBright(TM) LED line during fiscal 2002
with the commercial release of three new products: the MegaBright(TM) UV device,
the traffic signal green device and the true green device used for display signs
and other lighting applications. The MegaBright(TM) blue device was released in
the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. The UV device offers an alternative path to
white light compared to the MegaBright(TM) blue LED. Some customers prefer a
blue LED covered with a yellow-emitting phosphor to create white light. Other
customers believe the UV LED with red, green and blue-emitting phosphors
provides a preferable white light emission. Combining a red, green and blue LED,
or a blue and yellow LED, in an appropriate package are other means of creating
white light solid state lamps. A traffic signal made of green LEDs offers lower
power consumption at 6-12 watts versus 85-150 watts for an incandescent bulb in
certain cases. Consequently, municipalities and other government organizations
are choosing to install LED traffic signals due to reduced energy consumption
resulting in lower electricity bills and reduced maintenance costs due to the
longer lifetimes of LEDs. Applications for the true green device target full
color indoor and outdoor video displays including sports stadiums and large
advertising panels. The use of blue and green LEDs in full-color outdoor signs
is a well-established market, and one of the primary applications for nitride
LEDs. The MegaBright(TM) product line was an important revenue stream for fiscal
2002 and has replaced some demand for our older high brightness products. Our
high brightness product line had the biggest percentage decline in revenue
compared to fiscal 2001. For fiscal 2003, we will combine results for our
MegaBright(TM), UltraBright(TM) and high brightness devices for reporting
purposes and reflect these sales as our mid-brightness products. During the
fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, our mid-brightness chips comprised 88% of LED
sales.

We also introduced the XBright(TM) family of LEDs during fiscal 2002. This new
product family delivers to our customers increased brightness by approximately
40 percent over the MegaBright(TM) family of LEDs. Target applications for the
XBright(TM) devices include miniature white lights, traffic signals and video
screens. The XBright(TM) LED technology incorporates a flip chip design and
utilizes the optical benefits of SiC while maintaining the vertical structure
advantages of a single top contact. This allows for a standard size chip similar
to our other devices. We offer a complete product family of XBright(TM) LEDs:
UV, blue, traffic green and true green. During the fourth quarter of fiscal
2002, we continued to work through packaging difficulties encountered by some of
our customers in using our XBright(TM) products. As a result, XBright(TM) LEDs
comprised only 1% of LED revenue in the quarter. We modified the chip after its
initial introduction in response to customer packaging suggestions, and we
target to increase the sales volume of this product in the first half of fiscal
2003. Customer interest in the product remains strong, as we believe the
XBright(TM) chip is the brightest (which is defined as the optical power output
from a chip at 20 milliamps of drive current based on our internal measurement)
nitride LED currently available in the marketplace.

Shipments of our standard brightness devices remained stable in fiscal 2002 in
comparison to fiscal 2001 and were supported by automotive and indicator light
designs. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, standard brightness products
were approximately 11% of LED revenue.

Revenue from Cree Microwave was $24.8 million during fiscal 2002. Our biggest
challenge for Cree Microwave will be to diversify our Spectrian-concentrated
business. However, due to the weak economic environment for microwave devices
and the long qualification process for our products, we believe that this
diversification will develop over many quarters. In the near term, our goal is
to complete qualification of the new laterally diffused metal oxide
semiconductor, or LDMOS 8 products during the

                                      -34-

<PAGE>

first quarter of fiscal 2003. If we fail to attain this goal, revenue from this
segment will likely decline in future quarters. Our Supply Agreement with
Spectrian, Cree Microwave's largest customer, allows the customer to reduce its
purchase obligations significantly.

Overall, for fiscal 2002, materials revenue declined 19% over the prior year due
to a 57% reduction in gemstone sales and a 6% decrease in wafer sales. Sales of
material for use in gemstones were lower in the current year as Charles &
Colvard, or C&C, our sole customer for such materials, had built up inventory in
fiscal 2001 as their sales slowed. During fiscal 2002, wafer volume for our
material sales increased 8% while average sales prices declined 12% year over
year due to greater sales to volume customers using our product for commercial
applications.

Government contract revenue increased 9% in fiscal 2002 over the prior year as
we received several new contract awards during fiscal 2002. Our government
contract backlog exceeds $51.0 million as of June 30, 2002, and we target
contract revenue to increase during fiscal 2003 due to these new awards, subject
to the government's ability to terminate or reduce funding under the contracts.

During the past year, we utilized a greater proportion of our equipment and
infrastructure to perform research and development work to support the
commercialization of new products as reflected in the introduction of our
MegaBright(TM) and XBright(TM) products. We believe that, over the next several
quarters, this production capacity will be required to support the growth in
demand generated by our customers' recent design wins incorporating our
products. During fiscal 2003, we target to increase our throughput, subject to
the acceptance of our products by our customers and market conditions. As volume
throughput rises, our cost of LED chips and unit wafer costs are anticipated to
decline as fixed costs are spread over more units.

Critical Accounting Policies.

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of
operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. In preparing our financial statements, we must make estimates and
judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues
and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the
date of our financial statements. Actual results may differ from these estimates
under different assumptions or conditions.

Critical accounting policies include those policies that are reflective of
significant judgments and uncertainties, which potentially could produce
materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. We
believe that our critical accounting policies are limited to those described
below.

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets, Intangible Assets and Goodwill. We have
approximately $330.3 million of long-lived assets as of June 30, 2002, including
approximately $211.7 million related to fixed assets and $64.2 million in
long-term investments held to maturity. In addition to the original cost of
these assets, their recorded value is impacted by a number of our policy
elections, including estimated useful lives, salvage values and in 2002,
impairment charges. In accordance with SFAS 121, "Accounting for the Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed of", or SFAS 121,
we record impairment charges on long-lived assets used in operations when events
and circumstances indicate that the assets have been impaired. In making these
determinations, the Company utilizes certain assumptions, including, but not
limited to: (i) estimations of the fair market value of the assets, and (ii)
estimations of future cash flows expected to be generated by these assets, which
are based on additional assumptions such as asset utilization, length of service
the asset will be used in the Company's operations

                                      -35-

<PAGE>

and estimated salvage values. During 2002, we determined certain property and
equipment was impaired under SFAS 121 and as a result, we recorded impairment
charges of $19.0 million.

In addition, during the third quarter of 2002, we completed an impairment
analysis of the intangible assets and goodwill related to the acquisition of
Cree Microwave. This analysis was performed due to significant changes in
business conditions at the operating segment. First, Cree Microwave amended its
supply agreement with Spectrian effective March 31, 2002, which resulted in a
significant reduction in quarterly revenue expectations. In addition, Cree
Microwave's outlook for acquiring additional customers in the near term weakened
due to the deteriorating economic conditions and long product qualification
cycles. Also, many of the products that Spectrian indicated it would purchase in
the future have not yet been released to production. Under the amended supply
agreement, if Cree Microwave is not able to produce LDMOS 8 devices qualified
for Spectrian's applications in a timely manner, revenue from Spectrian may be
significantly reduced after the June 2002 quarter. As a result of this
impairment analysis, the remaining balance of intangible assets and goodwill of
$76.5 million was deemed fully impaired and was written off.

Accounting for Marketable and Non-Marketable Equity Securities. We classify our
marketable securities that are not trading or "held-to-maturity" securities as
"available-for-sale". We carry these investments at fair value, based on quoted
market prices, and unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, are included in
accumulated other comprehensive income, which is reflected as a separate
component of shareholders' equity. Realized gains and losses are recognized when
realized upon sale or disposition or when declines in value are deemed to be
other than temporary in accordance with SFAS 115 "Accounting for Certain Debt
and Equity Securities". We have a policy in place to review our equity holdings
on a regular basis to evaluate whether or not each security has experienced an
"other-than-temporary" decline in fair value. Our policy requires, among other
things, a review of each of the companies' cash position, earnings/revenue
outlook, stock price performance, liquidity, ability to raise capital and
management/ownership. Based on this review, if we believe that an
"other-than-temporary" decline exists in the value of one of our marketable
equity securities, it is our policy to write down these equity investments to
the market value. The related write-down will then be recorded as an investment
loss on our consolidated statements of operations. During 2002, we recorded an
"other-than-temporary" investment loss of $22.0 million related to our
available-for-sale marketable securities based primarily on sustained reductions
in stock price performance.

We also make strategic investments in the equity of privately held companies.
Since we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over the
operations of these companies, these investment balances are carried at cost and
accounted for using the cost method of accounting. Since the shares of stock we
received in these investments are not publicly traded, there is no established
market for these securities. We have a policy in place to review the fair value
of these investments on a regular basis to evaluate the carrying value of such
investments. This policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the
companies' cash position, financing needs, earnings/revenue outlook, operational
performance, management/ownership changes, and competition. The evaluation
process is based on information that we request from the privately held
companies. This information is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as
U.S. public companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject
to the timing and the accuracy of the data received from these companies. If we
believe that the carrying value of an investment is at an amount in excess of
fair value, it is our policy to record a write-down of the investment. This
write-down is estimated based on the information described above, and it is
recorded as an investment loss on our consolidated statements of operations.
During 2002, we recorded a write-down on these investments of $20.4 million,
representing our best estimate of "other-than-temporary" declines in value based
on a review of those factors described above. Estimating the fair value of
non-marketable

                                      -36-

<PAGE>

investments in early-stage technology companies is inherently subjective and may
contribute to significant volatility in our reported results of operations.

Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, cost being
determined using the first-in, first-out method. We evaluate our ending
inventories for excess quantities, impairment of value and obsolescence. This
evaluation includes analysis of sales levels by product and projections of
future demand based upon input received from our customers, sales team and
management estimates. We generally reserve for inventories on hand that are
greater than twelve months old, unless there is an identified need for the
inventory. In addition, we write off inventories that are considered obsolete
based upon changes in customer demand, manufacturing process changes that result
in existing inventory obsolescence or new product introductions, which eliminate
demand for existing products. Remaining inventory balances are adjusted to
approximate the lower of our manufacturing cost or market value. If future
demand or market conditions are less favorable than our projections, additional
inventory write-downs may be required and would be reflected in cost of sales in
the period the revision is made. We evaluate the adequacy of these reserves
quarterly. In the third quarter of fiscal 2002, we recorded a $4.5 million
reserve at our Cree Microwave segment for non-LDMOS and older LDMOS devices as a
result of contract negotiations with Spectrian that identified these devices as
obsolete. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we recorded inventory
write-downs of $690,000 related to our initial shipments of the XBright(TM)
family of products due to a packaging issue identified by some of our customers.

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable. Revenue on product sales is
recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, such as when a
purchase order or contract is received from the customer, the price is fixed,
title to the goods has changed and there is a reasonable assurance of collection
of the sales proceeds. We obtain written purchase authorizations from our
customers for a specified amount of product at a specified price and consider
delivery to have occurred at the time of shipment. In some cases our inventory
is maintained at a consigned location, in that situation, revenue is recognized
as our customer pulls inventory for their use. We provide our customers with a
limited right of return. Revenue is recognized at shipment or when product is
pulled from consigned inventory, and we record a reserve for sales returns. We
make estimates of potential future product returns related to current period
product revenue. We analyze historical returns, current economic trends and
changes in customer demand and acceptance of our products when evaluating the
adequacy of the allowance for sales returns. Significant judgments and estimates
made by management are used in connection with establishing the allowance for
sales returns. Material differences may result in the amount and timing of our
revenue for any period if management made different judgments or utilized
different estimates. The allowance for sales returns at June 30, 2002 was
$455,000.

Accruals for Liabilities and Warranties. At times, we must make estimates for
the amount of costs that have been incurred but not yet billed for general
services, including legal and accounting fees, costs pertaining to our
self-funded medical insurance, warranty costs at Cree Microwave and other
expenses. Many of these expenses are estimated based on historical experience or
averages and information gained directly from the service providers. Material
differences may result in the amount and timing of our expenses for any period
if management made different judgments or utilized different estimates.

Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets. As of June 30, 2002, the Company had $28.5
million recorded as deferred tax assets. These assets were recorded as a result
of tax benefits associated with the $143.9 million of significant charges taken
in fiscal 2002. These charges were recorded for the write-off of property and
equipment, the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets at Cree Microwave
and other charges resulting from the downturn in business and the "other than
temporary" charges taken on our investments. We did not record a reserve against
these deferred tax assets as we target a return to

                                      -37-

<PAGE>

profitable operations over the next several periods and target being able to use
the deferred tax assets in their entirety.

The above listing is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our
accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular
transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting
principles, with no need for management's judgement in its application. There
are also areas in which management's judgement in selecting any available
alternative would not produce a materially different result. See our audited
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K which contain a discussion of our accounting policies and
other disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States.

Results of Operations

The following table shows our consolidated statement of operations data
expressed as a percentage of total revenue for the periods indicated:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             Years Ended
                                                       --------------------------------------------------------
                                                         June 30, 2002       June 24, 2001      June 25, 2000
                                                       ----------------     ---------------    ----------------
<S>                                                    <C>                  <C>                <C>
Revenue:
     Product revenue, net ................                    87.6%               90.0%               89.1%
     Contract revenue, net ...............                    12.4                10.0                10.9
                                                       ----------------     ---------------    ----------------
         Total revenue ...................                   100.0               100.0               100.0

Cost of Revenue:
     Product revenue, net ................                    50.3                43.3                40.0
     Contract revenue, net ...............                     8.9                 7.3                 8.2
                                                       ----------------     ---------------    ----------------
         Total cost of revenue ...........                    59.2                50.6                48.2
                                                       ----------------     ---------------    ----------------
Gross margin .............................                    40.8                49.4                51.8

Operating expenses:
     Research and development ............                    18.0                 7.3                 6.5
     Sales, general and administrative ...                    16.5                10.2                10.2
     Intangible asset amortization .......                     4.4                 2.6                  --
     In-process research and development
        costs ............................                      --                 9.8                  --
     Other expense .......................                    62.6                  --                 1.2
                                                       ----------------     ---------------    ----------------
(Loss) income from operations ............                   (60.7)               19.5                33.9

Other non-operating (expense) income .....                   (26.9)                 --                 0.6
Interest income, net .....................                     3.7                 8.8                 8.6
                                                       ----------------     ---------------    ----------------
(Loss) income before income taxes ........                   (83.9)               28.3                43.1
Income tax (benefit) expense .............                   (18.5)               12.6                15.0
                                                       ----------------     ---------------    ----------------
Net (loss) income ........................                   (65.4%)              15.7%               28.1%
                                                       ================     ===============    ================
</TABLE>

Fiscal Years Ended June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001

                                      -38-

<PAGE>

Revenue. Revenue declined 12% to $155.4 million in fiscal 2002 from $177.2
million in fiscal 2001. This decrease was attributable to lower product revenue,
which declined 15% to $136.2 million in fiscal 2002 from $159.5 million in
fiscal 2001. Excluding results of Cree Microwave, due to its mid-year
acquisition in fiscal 2001, revenue for fiscal 2002 would have decreased 17%
over the prior year comparative results. Much of the decrease in revenue from
our traditional business resulted from lower average selling prices for our LED
and SiC wafer products.

Average LED sales prices declined 24% for the twelve months ended June 2002
compared to the prior year. This decrease was related to contractual volume
discounts given to customers and increasing price competitiveness in the
marketplace due to weakness in the worldwide economy. We believe that the
overall demand for nitride LEDs declined during our fiscal 2002. However, our
overall market share has recently increased as a result of our lower pricing and
the introduction of higher brightness products. For fiscal 2002, our LED chip
volume increased 5% over prior year shipments. The introduction of the
MegaBright(TM) UV, blue, and green products in fiscal 2002 has generated new
design wins for our customers. The MegaBright(TM) product is approximately two
times brighter than our previous generation devices and is similar to the
brightness that is currently offered by our primary competitors. Prior to the
introduction of the MegaBright(TM) product line, our products were not as bright
as those offered by our competition. The MegaBright(TM) product line was not
fully introduced until February 2002, when our green devices were released.
These products have replaced some existing demand for our previous generation
high brightness devices; however, due to the product's higher performance, it
has also generated new demand, particularly in the mobile handset market. We
believe that volume shipments of the MegaBright(TM) product will increase in
fiscal 2003 due to new design wins primarily in the mobile handset market.
Several large wireless phone manufacturers have recently introduced new products
that feature a blue backlight of the keypad and, at times, a blue color for the
display. In addition, newer designs now offer white backlighting for full color
screens that require white LEDs. We believe that our products are featured in
several of these models of phones, and blue and white backlit phones have grown
significantly as a percentage of handsets currently offered by major
manufacturers. We also believe that the blue and white LEDs have replaced a
portion of the yellow-green LEDs that have traditionally backlit mobile
handsets. Our products will also target new automotive designs in fiscal 2003 as
well as other consumer product applications.

During fiscal 2002, we also introduced our new XBright(TM) families of LEDs,
including UV, blue and green devices. These products offer approximately 40%
higher brightness than our MegaBright(TM) products, and we believe they are
currently the highest brightness UV, blue and green products available in the
market place. We completed the introduction of these devices in the second half
of fiscal 2002. These devices did not contribute significantly to revenue in
fiscal 2002, as we continue to work with customers to optimize our chip design
in packaged solutions. We are targeting these products to be more significant to
revenue in fiscal 2003 for high brightness applications such as display signs,
traffic signals and lighting applications.

                                      -39-

<PAGE>

Shipments of our standard brightness products were flat in fiscal 2002 in
comparison to the prior year due to stable demand for automotive and indicator
light applications. We target that our LED revenue may grow significantly in our
first quarter of fiscal 2003 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002,
due to increased volume shipments. We also believe that average sales prices for
LEDs will decline in fiscal 2003. However, we are targeting unit shipments to
grow at a faster rate than average sales price declines, and as a result, we
target higher revenue in fiscal 2003 over fiscal 2002. LED revenue visibility
beyond the first quarter of fiscal 2003 is limited due to short lead times given
to us by customers. In addition, we must complete additional improvements to our
chip design and performance in order to succeed with our LED revenue targets for
fiscal 2003.

Revenue from Cree Microwave increased 29% to $24.8 million in fiscal 2002 from
$19.2 million in fiscal 2001. The increase in revenue represents an additional
six months of sales for the segment due to our mid-year acquisition of Cree
Microwave from Spectrian in fiscal 2001. Our average quarterly revenue in fiscal
2002 was lower than fiscal 2001 due to the current market environment for
wireless infrastructure spending. Product mix shifted to LDMOS during fiscal
2002, which comprised 54% of microwave revenue, an increase of 13% from fiscal
2001. Revenue attributable to bipolar devices was 45% and 1% related to other
products during fiscal 2002. Over 90% of Cree Microwave revenues were derived
from shipments to Spectrian in fiscal 2002 as well as fiscal 2001. Overall, our
average sales prices for this business segment were fairly stable with quarterly
average volume being reduced in fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001. Cree
Microwave continues to work with Spectrian to qualify and deliver new LDMOS 8
products for next generation wireless base station applications. If we are
unable to deliver qualified LDMOS 8 products to Spectrian on a timely basis, the
amount of our contractual supply agreement with Spectrian may be reduced
significantly. Specifically, until we complete the qualification of LDMOS 8
parts and the parts are accepted by Spectrian, we anticipate minimal revenue
from this segment of our business. If our revenue is reduced substantially, it
could have an adverse effect on our results of operations for this segment of
business. We continue to work on new customer design wins; however, due to long
product qualification cycles in the RF industry, progress in this area will
require a longer time commitment. As a result of continued weakness in market
conditions for wireless infrastructure spending, combined with a reduced supply
agreement with Spectrian that calls for a remaining $16.3 million of revenue
through June 2003, we target revenue from this segment to decline in fiscal 2003
from fiscal 2002.

Overall, for fiscal 2002, materials revenue declined 19% over the prior year due
to a 57% reduction in gemstone sales and a 6% decrease in wafer sales. SiC wafer
sales decreased 6% from the prior year due to lower pricing for wafers sold to
corporate and research communities, including certain customers using our wafers
for commercial production. Wafer units sold increased 8%, while average sales
prices declined 12% due to a higher mix of volume sales related to wafers used
in commercial production. For fiscal 2003, we target wafer sales revenue to be
even with fiscal 2002 results. Sales of gemstone products declined 57% during
fiscal 2002 as compared to fiscal 2001. During the fourth quarter of fiscal
2002, we experienced a modest recovery in revenue from C&C and target revenue
improvement from this customer during fiscal 2003.

Contract revenue received from U.S. Government agencies and non-governmental
customers increased 9% during fiscal 2002 compared to fiscal 2001, due to
additional contract awards. We anticipate that contract revenue will increase
during fiscal 2003 as a result of new contract awards received in the second
half of fiscal 2002.

Gross Profit. Gross profit decreased 28% to $63.4 million in fiscal 2002 from
$87.5 million in fiscal 2001. Compared to the prior year, gross margins declined
from 49% to 41% of revenue. In fiscal 2002,

                                      -40-

<PAGE>

gross profit included a $5.1 million charge relating to an inventory write-off
and other related costs that were recorded as a part of the downsizing of Cree
Microwave's operations. Without this adjustment, gross profit and gross margin
for fiscal 2002 would have been $68.5 million and 44%, respectively. Lower
margins resulted from a combination of lower revenue and reduced profitability
for LED and wafer products and lower profitability at Cree Microwave related to
weak demand for RF devices. LED margins declined due to average sales prices
decreasing at a faster rate than average costs. During fiscal 2002, LED average
sales prices declined 24%, which was in line with our plans, while costs were
only 16% lower. LED costs did not decline as quickly as revenue due to reduced
worldwide demand for UV, blue and green LED products, which put pressure on
average sales prices and lowered our factory throughput. Because a significant
portion of our factory cost is fixed, lower throughput typically results in
higher costs per unit produced. In addition, our LED costs per unit were higher
due to inefficiencies typically associated with new product introductions as we
released both the MegaBright(TM) and XBright(TM) family of products during the
year. In our fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, we had product returns and inventory
write-downs that netted to a $948,000 reduction in gross profit related to
packaging issues identified by some customers after the release of the
XBright(TM) family of products. We have redesigned our XBright(TM) chips and are
planning to manufacture the products in volume in the first half of fiscal 2003.
Despite the lower throughput of volume and new product inefficiencies, we were
still able to reduce LED costs by 16% due to improved yield, cost cutting
measures and other efficiencies.

Gross margins at Cree Microwave were 19% during fiscal 2002 and were impacted by
the $5.1 million write-off of inventory discussed above. Excluding this write
down, gross margin would have been 40% of revenue for the Cree Microwave segment
compared to 44% in fiscal 2001. Low factory throughput due to reduced sales
volumes and the qualification of LDMOS 8 has significantly impacted our cost per
unit. Our greatest opportunity to improve margins would be in yield improvements
and the achievement of greater throughput levels in our factory.

For fiscal 2003, we target gross margins to improve slightly as a result of
higher throughput in our Durham, North Carolina facility as well as improved
yields due to higher anticipated volume. Depending on our success with the
introduction of the LDMOS 8 devices at Cree Microwave, our margins for that
segment may increase, remain stable or may decline.

Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased 116% in
fiscal 2002 to $28.0 million from $13.0 million in fiscal 2001. The increase in
research and development spending supported our MegaBright(TM) and XBright(TM)
product lines; our large chip LED devices as well as new higher brightness LED
research programs. In addition, we funded development of our next generation
LDMOS, SiC and GaN microwave devices, our Schottky diode power program and our
UV lasers. While research and development spending increased, customer support
of certain programs decreased, thereby further increasing costs. Finally, the
mid-year acquisition of Cree Microwave during fiscal 2001 also contributed to
the higher spending variance. Without the impact of Cree Microwave, research and
development spending would have increased 99% over the prior year. We believe
our research and development during fiscal 2002 is critical to our future
revenue growth. For example, we target that more than 70% of our revenue goal
for fiscal 2003 will be met with technology developed in fiscal 2002. We believe
that internal funding for the development of new products will stabilize during
fiscal 2003.

Sales, General and Administrative. Sales, general and administrative expenses
increased 41% in fiscal 2002 to $25.6 million from $18.1 million in fiscal 2001.
The increase in expenses was due mostly to costs associated with ongoing
intellectual property litigation. In addition, costs were higher due to the mid
year acquisition of Cree Microwave during fiscal 2001, higher premiums for
directors' and officers' insurance and greater spending to support the growth of
the business. Without the impact of Cree

                                      -41-

<PAGE>

Microwave, sales and general and administrative expenses would have increased by
38% year over year. For fiscal 2003, we target that sales, general and
administrative costs to remain stable depending on developments in our ongoing
patent litigation.

Intangible Asset Amortization and In-Process Research and Development Costs.
Intangible asset amortization increased 49% to $6.8 million during fiscal 2002
from $4.5 million during fiscal 2001. Nine months of intangible asset
amortization was included in fiscal 2002 and six months of amortization was
included in fiscal 2001 resulting from the acquisition of Cree Microwave in
December 2000. Intangible asset amortization ceased during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2002. An analysis of goodwill and other intangible assets indicated that
the carrying values of such assets had been fully impaired under Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of" (SFAS 121) (see
"Other Expense"). Prior to the write-off of goodwill and intangible assets, we
were amortizing these assets over periods ranging from five to ten years.

As a result of the acquisition of Cree Microwave in December 2000, we recorded a
charge of $17.4 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2001 associated with
acquired in-process research and development costs.

Other Expense. Other expense increased to $97.2 million during fiscal 2002 from
$62,000 in fiscal 2001. This charge was primarily made up of a $76.5 million
charge for goodwill and intangible assets relating to Cree Microwave in response
to several impairment indicators. Cree Microwave amended its supply agreement
with Spectrian in the third quarter of fiscal 2002, which reduced quarterly
revenue expectations. Also, many of the products that Spectrian indicated that
it would purchase in the future have not yet been released to production. Under
the amended supply agreement with Spectrian, if Cree Microwave is not able to
produce LDMOS 8 devices in a timely manner, revenue from Spectrian may be
significantly reduced after the June 2002 quarter. In addition, the outlook for
acquiring additional customers in the near term has decreased due to the
weakened economy and the long qualification cycles. Due to the change in outlook
for business at Cree Microwave and the reduction in expected revenue per
quarter, we performed an asset impairment analysis under SFAS 121. As a result
of this analysis, the full amount of goodwill and intangible assets of $76.5
million was written off and recorded as other expense on our consolidated
statements of operations. Also included in other expense was $875,000 related to
severance payments and other expenses related to the downsizing in the Cree
Microwave business. In addition, a $19.0 million write-off of property and
equipment was recorded to reflect changes in technology that resulted in their
obsolescence.

Other Non-Operating (Loss) Income. Other non-operating (loss) income was a loss
of $41.8 million in fiscal 2002 compared to $82,000 of income in fiscal 2001.
The fiscal 2002 loss was attributable to a $42.4 million write-down of
investments made in publicly traded and privately held equity securities. For
publicly traded securities, we reclassified other comprehensive losses from
equity to non-operating losses in our consolidated statements of operations and
recorded additional write-downs for the "other-than-temporary" declines in the
market value of these investments as the stock market has sustained significant
declines in value. In the case of privately held investments, many of the
companies were experiencing deteriorating financial conditions and/or an
inability to raise additional capital, which represented significant indicators
of value impairment. The fiscal 2002 other non-operating loss was partially
offset by a $558,000 gain on the sale of marketable securities during the second
quarter of fiscal 2002.

During fiscal 2001, a $4.6 million write-down was taken to establish a reserve
for investments made in privately held companies that were considered to have an
"other than temporary" impairment to value. In

                                      -42-

<PAGE>

addition, we made a one-time pledge of a charitable contribution of $1.2 million
to the University of California at Santa Barbara to endow a Cree chair in solid
state lighting and displays and for other uses. Finally, a $100,000 charge was
recorded related to one-time charges for expenses incurred for the acquisition
of Nitres. These charges were offset by a $6.0 million gain on the sale of
marketable securities during the year.

Interest Income, net. Interest income, net has decreased 64% to $5.7 million in
fiscal 2002 from $15.7 million in fiscal 2001 due to significantly lower
interest rates available in fiscal 2002. In addition, slightly lower cash
amounts were available as $20.3 million was used to repurchase our own stock
during fiscal 2002.

Income Tax (Benefit) Expense. Income tax (benefit) expense for fiscal 2002 was a
benefit of $28.7 million compared to an expense of $22.3 million in fiscal 2001.
The fiscal 2002 income tax benefit resulted from significant charges of $143.9
million taken during the year. These charges included the write-off of property
and equipment due to changes in technology, the impairment of goodwill and
intangible assets at Cree Microwave and other charges relating to the downturn
in business, and an "other than temporary" decline in fair value of marketable
and privately held securities. Our effective tax rate during fiscal 2002 was 22%
compared to 33% in fiscal 2001. At June 30, 2002, we also maintained $28.5
million of deferred tax assets that were not reserved for by us as we target to
return to profitable operations over the next several periods and target being
able to use the assets in their entirety.

The minimum amount of future taxable income that will be required to realize
existing deferred tax assets is approximately $66 million, $20 million of which
will need to occur within the next 20 years to offset existing net operating
losses. The new tax act, "The Job Creation and Workers' Assistance Act of 2002"
will allow us to recover past alternative minimum tax that has been paid. This
amount has been recorded as a tax receivable. The new legislation also allows us
more favorable depreciation. Historically, reported taxable income has been
significantly lower than income reported for financial reporting purposes. The
primary reasons for this difference are the timing differences for depreciation,
stock option deductions for tax purposes, other tax planning strategies, and
impairment charges expensed for financial accounting purposes, which are not tax
deductible.

Fiscal Years Ended June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000

Revenue. Revenue grew 63% to $177.2 million in fiscal 2001 from $108.6 million
in fiscal 2000. This increase was attributable to higher product revenue, which
rose 65% to $159.5 million in fiscal 2001 from $96.7 million in fiscal 2000.
Without the acquisition of Cree Microwave in December 2000, revenue for fiscal
2001 would have increased 46% over the prior year comparative results. Much of
the increase in revenue from our traditional business resulted from demand for
our LED and SiC wafer products. LED chip volume increased 104% over units
delivered in the prior year. The largest increase occurred as a result of the
introduction of our UltraBright(TM) product line in fiscal 2001. During fiscal
2000 only our high brightness and standard brightness product lines were
available for sale. Our standard brightness products also increased 65% in
fiscal 2001 in terms of units shipped over the prior year due to strong demand
for automotive and indicator light applications. Average LED sales prices
declined 18% for the twelve months ended June 2001 compared to the prior year
average due to expected contractual volume discounts given to customers.

SiC wafer sales increased 71% over the prior year due to demand from corporate
and research customers, including certain customers using our wafers for
commercial production. Wafer units sold increased 107%, while average sales
prices declined 16% due to a higher mix of volume sales related to wafers

                                      -43-

<PAGE>

used in commercial production. Sales of gemstone products declined 63% during
fiscal year 2001 as compared to fiscal 2000 due to inventory reduction efforts
at C&C.

Revenue from Cree Microwave was $19.2 million for fiscal 2001. This represents
six months of sales for the unit as it was acquired in December 2000 and
accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Since we acquired Cree
Microwave in December 2000, there were no sales for this unit in fiscal 2000.

Contract revenue received from U.S. Government agencies and non-governmental
customers increased 50% during fiscal 2001 compared to fiscal 2000, due to
additional contract awards. Seven new contract awards were received during
fiscal 2001.

Gross Profit. Gross profit increased 56% to $87.5 million in fiscal 2001 from
$56.2 million in fiscal 2000. Compared to the prior year, gross margins declined
from 52% to 49% of revenue. Lower margins resulted from a combination of reduced
profitability for LED devices and the acquisition of Cree Microwave. LED margins
declined due to average sales prices decreasing at a faster rate than average
costs. During fiscal 2001 average LED costs declined 11% while average sales
prices were reduced 18%. LED costs did not decline as quickly as revenue due to
lower yields as a result of new product introductions and chip modifications
made to our products in the second half of the year. In addition, factory
throughput was reduced during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001, which resulted
in higher costs per chip. The margins for Cree Microwave averaged 44% as a
percentage of revenue due to the competitive environment for LDMOS chips. Cree
Microwave was 11% of total revenue in fiscal 2001.

Research and Development. Research and development expenses increased 84% in
fiscal 2001 to $13.0 million from $7.1 million in fiscal 2000. Much of this
increase resulted from the acquisition of Cree Microwave, as well as greater
investment made for research in the RF and microwave, power and optoelectronic
programs. Without the acquisition of Cree Microwave, research and development
expenses would have increased 62% over the prior year.

Sales, General and Administrative. Sales, general and administrative expenses
increased 63% in fiscal 2001 to $18.1 million from $11.1 million in fiscal 2000.
This increase in expenses is due to the acquisition of Cree Microwave and
greater spending to support the overall growth of the business, as well as costs
associated with ongoing intellectual property litigation. Without the
acquisition of Cree Microwave, sales, general and administrative expenses would
have increased 44% over the prior year.

Intangible Asset Amortization and In-Process Research and Development Costs. The
purchase of Cree Microwave generated goodwill and other intangible assets, which
will be amortized over periods ranging from five to ten years. In addition, as a
result of the acquisition of Cree Microwave, we recorded a one-time charge of
$17.4 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2001 associated with acquired
in-process research and development costs.

Other Expense. Other expense decreased 95% to $62,000 during fiscal 2001 from
$1.3 million in fiscal 2000. The decrease was attributable to fewer fixed asset
disposals.

Other Non-Operating Income. Other non-operating income decreased 88% to $82,000
in fiscal 2001 from $656,000 in fiscal 2000. This decrease was attributable to a
$4.6 million write down taken in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2001 to establish
a reserve for investments made in private companies that was considered to be an
"other-than-temporary" decline in fair value. In addition, we made a one-time
pledge of a charitable contribution of $1.2 million to the University of
California at Santa Barbara to endow a Cree chair in solid state lighting and
displays, and for other uses, in the first quarter of fiscal 2001.

                                      -44-

<PAGE>

Finally, a $100,000 charge was recorded related to one-time charges for expenses
incurred for the acquisition of Nitres. These charges were offset by a $6.0
million gain on the sale of investment securities during the year. During fiscal
2000, a $4.1 million gain was recognized on the sale of securities. This gain
combined with one-time proceeds from an insurance recovery of $400,000, more
than offset a $3.8 million one-time charge for expenses incurred with the
acquisition of Nitres.

Interest Income, net. Interest income, net has increased 67% to $15.7 million in
fiscal 2001 from $9.4 million in fiscal 2000 due to higher average cash balances
being available in fiscal 2001 as a result of the public stock offering
completed in January 2000. Higher interest rates in fiscal 2001 also contributed
to increased interest income.

Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense for fiscal 2001 was $22.3 million
compared to $16.3 million in fiscal 2000. This increase resulted from increased
profitability during fiscal 2001 over fiscal 2000, as adjusted for the cost of
in-process research and development which is non-deductible in the current
period for tax purposes. Our effective tax rate during fiscal 2001 was 33%
compared to 35% in fiscal 2000.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

We have funded our operations to date through sales of equity, bank borrowings
and from product and contract gross profits. As of June 30, 2002, we had working
capital of $151.8 million, including $106.1 million in cash, cash equivalents
and short-term investments held to maturity. As of June 30, 2002, we invested
$64.2 million in long term securities held to maturity in order to receive a
higher interest rate on our cash. Operating activities generated $39.1 million
in fiscal 2002 compared with $74.8 million generated during fiscal 2001. This
decrease was primarily attributable to a $31.2 million increase in deferred
income tax assets that was generated from the $143.9 million in pretax charges
taken in fiscal 2002. Depreciation and amortization increased by $13.0 million
in fiscal 2002, due to new equipment purchased primarily in fiscal 2001. Tax
benefits from stock options were also $4.3 million lower in fiscal 2002. These
inflows of cash were partly offset by a $2.8 million increase in inventory due
to increased shipments anticipated for early fiscal 2003 and inventory being
maintained at an offsite location, and a $3.8 million increase to prepaid
expenses mostly for higher insurance premiums.

Cash used by investing activities in fiscal 2002 was $116.9 million. Net
investments of $51.8 million were made in securities held to maturity and $13.8
million was invested in available for sale securities. $41.7 million was
invested in property and equipment and in additional deposits for property and
equipment. The majority of the increase in spending was due to new equipment
additions to increase manufacturing capacity in our epitaxy, clean room and
package and test areas. Finally, $9.1 million was invested in other long-term
assets during fiscal 2002 and reflects strategic investments made in private
companies.

Cash used in financing activities included common stock repurchases of 1.49
million shares of our common stock on the open market for $20.3 million or an
average cost of $13.63 per share. This was partially offset by the receipt of
$7.2 million for the exercise of stock options and shares issued under our
employee stock purchase program.

We target approximately $50.0-60.0 million in capital spending for fiscal 2003.
We anticipate that the majority of the expenditures will be made for new
equipment and will be funded by cash from operations. We may also issue
additional shares of common stock for the acquisition of complementary

                                      -45-

<PAGE>

businesses or other significant assets. From time to time, we evaluate potential
acquisitions of and investments in complementary businesses and anticipate
continuing to make such evaluations.



Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Quantitative Disclosures:

As of June 30, 2002, we maintain investments in equity securities that are
treated for accounting purposes under SFAS 115 as "available-for-sale"
securities. These investments are normally carried at fair market value based
upon the quoted market price of that investment at the end of the reporting
period, with net unrealized gains or losses excluded from earnings and reported
as a separate component of shareholder's equity. It is our policy to write down
these equity investments to their market value and record the related write-down
as an investment loss on our consolidated statements of operations when the
investment has an "other-than-temporary" decline in value. At June 30, 2002, we
believe that an "other-than-temporary" decline existed in our marketable equity
securities and we recorded an "other-than-temporary" investment loss of $22.0
million related to our available for sale marketable securities. These
investments are subject to market risk of equity price changes. Management views
these stock holdings as an investment; therefore, the shares are accounted for
as "available for sale" securities under SFAS 115. The fair market value of
these investments as of June 30, 2002, using the closing sale price as of June
28, 2002, was $6.0 million. These equity securities are held for purposes other
than trading. Our equity portfolio consists of securities with characteristics
that most closely match the Nasdaq National Market. The Nasdaq Composite Index
has shown a 72% decline over the past two years, therefore if there was a 72%
adverse change in the market prices, our portfolio would decrease in value by
$4.3 million.

An adverse movement of equity market prices would also have an impact on our
portfolio of non-marketable strategic equity securities, although the impact
cannot be directly quantified. Such a movement and the related underlying
economic conditions would negatively affect the prospects of the companies we
invest in, their ability to raise additional capital and the likelihood of our
being able to realize our investments through liquidity events such as initial
public offerings, mergers and private sales. At June 30, 2002, our
non-marketable strategic equity securities had a carrying amount of $16.0
million.

We have invested some of the proceeds from our January 2000 public offering into
high-grade corporate debt, commercial paper, government securities and other
investments at fixed interest rates that vary by security. At June 30, 2002, the
Company had $157.6 million invested in these securities. We currently have no
debt outstanding.

Qualitative Disclosures:

Our investments in publicly traded equity securities are subject to the market
risk of equity price changes. While we cannot predict or manage the future
market price for such stock, management continues to evaluate our investment
position on an on-going basis.

                                      -46-

<PAGE>

Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                              Page
                                                                                              ----
<S>                                                                                           <C>
Report of Independent Auditors ..............................................................  48


Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001 ...........................  49


Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and
June 25, 2000 ...............................................................................  50


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow for the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and
June 25, 2000 ...............................................................................  51


Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended June 30, 2002,
June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000 .............................................................  52


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ..................................................  53
</TABLE>

                                      -47-

<PAGE>

                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS





Board of Directors and Shareholders
Cree, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cree, Inc. as of
June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended June 30, 2002. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Cree,
Inc. at June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
June 30, 2002, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States.





                                         /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Raleigh, North Carolina
July 24, 2002

                                      -48-

<PAGE>

                                   CREE, INC.
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                    (In thousands, except per share amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                    June 30,              June 24,
                                                                                      2002                  2001
                                                                                   -----------          ------------
<S>                                                                                <C>                  <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:
       Cash and cash equivalents                                                   $    73,744          $    164,562
       Short-term investments held to maturity                                          32,396                36,965
       Marketable securities available for sale                                          6,008                 6,675
       Accounts receivable, net                                                         34,592                34,850
       Interest receivable                                                               2,083                 1,270
       Inventories, net                                                                 17,966                15,202
       Deferred income taxes                                                             1,122                 4,172
       Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                         5,994                 2,220
                                                                                   -----------          ------------
              Total current assets                                                     173,905               265,916

       Property and equipment, net                                                     211,685               226,920
       Goodwill and intangible assets, net                                                  --                83,282
       Long-term investments held to maturity                                           64,225                 7,971
       Deferred income taxes                                                            27,365                    --
       Patent and license rights, net                                                    4,251                 3,246
       Other assets                                                                     22,764                27,788
                                                                                   -----------          ------------
              Total assets                                                         $   504,195          $    615,123
                                                                                   ===========          ============

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
       Accounts payable, trade                                                     $    13,075          $     14,147
       Accrued salaries and wages                                                        4,010                 2,435
       Other accrued expenses                                                            4,969                 5,156
                                                                                   -----------          ------------
              Total current liabilities                                                 22,054                21,738

Long term liabilities:
       Deferred income taxes                                                                --                 3,850
       Other long-term liabilities                                                          37                   438
                                                                                   -----------          ------------
              Total long-term liabilities                                                   37                 4,288

Shareholders' equity:
       Preferred stock, par value $0.01; 3,000 shares authorized at
         June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001; none issued and outstanding                       --                    --
       Common stock, par value $0.00125; 200,000 shares authorized at
         June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001; 72,729 and 72,907 shares issued
         and outstanding at June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001, respectively                   90                    91
       Additional paid-in-capital                                                      508,432               518,781
       Deferred compensation                                                              (696)               (1,211)
       (Accumulated deficit) retained earnings                                         (25,722)               76,001
       Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax                                     --                (4,565)
                                                                                   -----------          ------------
              Total shareholders' equity                                               482,104               589,097
                                                                                   -----------          ------------
              Total liabilities and shareholders' equity                           $   504,195          $    615,123
                                                                                   ===========          ============
</TABLE>

         The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
                              financial statements.

                                      -49-

<PAGE>

                                   CREE, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                    (In thousands, except per share amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Year Ended
                                                --------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     June 30,               June 24,              June 25,
                                                       2002                   2001                  2000
                                                -------------------    ------------------    -----------------
<S>                                             <C>                    <C>                   <C>
Revenue:
  Product revenue, net                              $ 136,230              $ 159,533             $  96,742
  Contract revenue, net                                19,204                 17,694                11,820
                                                -------------------    ------------------    -----------------
   Total revenue                                      155,434                177,227               108,562

Cost of revenue:
  Product revenue, net                                 78,249                 76,734                43,399
  Contract revenue, net                                13,827                 12,967                 8,963
                                                -------------------    ------------------    -----------------
   Total cost of revenue                               92,076                 89,701                52,362
                                                -------------------    ------------------    -----------------
Gross profit                                           63,358                 87,526                56,200

Operating expenses:
  Research and development                             28,026                 12,980                 7,054
  Sales, general and administrative                    25,618                 18,111                11,091
  Intangible asset amortization                         6,765                  4,537                    --
  In-process research and development costs                --                 17,400                    --
  Impairment charges and other expense                 97,223                     62                 1,305
                                                -------------------    ------------------    -----------------
(Loss) income from operations                         (94,274)                34,436                36,750

Other non-operating (expense) income                  (41,848)                    82                   656
Interest income, net                                    5,708                 15,668                 9,400
                                                -------------------    ------------------    -----------------
   (Loss) income before income taxes                 (130,414)                50,186                46,806

Income tax (benefit) expense                          (28,691)                22,343                16,286
                                                -------------------    ------------------    -----------------
   Net (loss) income                                ($101,723)             $  27,843             $  30,520
                                                ===================    ==================    =================

(Loss) earnings per share:
   Basic                                               ($1.40)             $    0.39             $    0.46
                                                ===================    ==================    =================
   Diluted                                             ($1.40)             $    0.37             $    0.43
                                                ===================    ==================    =================

Shares used in per share calculation:
   Basic                                               72,718                 72,243                65,930
                                                ===================    ==================    =================
   Diluted                                             72,718                 75,735                70,434
                                                ===================    ==================    =================
</TABLE>

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                   statements.

                                      -50-

<PAGE>

                                   CREE, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW
                                 (In thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                         Year Ended
                                                               --------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                  June 30,                June 24,               June 25,
                                                                    2002                    2001                   2000
                                                               --------------          ---------------        ---------------
<S>                                                            <C>                     <C>                    <C>
Operating activities:
       Net (loss) income                                           ($ 101,723)         $        27,843        $        30,520
       Adjustments to reconcile net (loss) income to net
        cash provided by operating activities:
       Depreciation and amortization                                   32,400                   21,948                 10,803
       Loss on retirement of property and equipment and
        patents                                                        18,298                      134                  1,256
       Amortization of patent rights                                      293                      194                    145
       Amortization of intangible assets                                6,796                    4,537                     --
       Amortization of premium on securities held to maturity             157                       --                     --
       Write-off of goodwill and other intangible assets               76,488                       --                     --
       Acquired in-process research & development                          --                   17,400                     --
       Write-down of long-term investments                             20,377                    4,600                     --
       Purchase of marketable trading securities                       (1,546)                 (17,498)                (1,786)
       Proceeds from sale of marketable trading securities              2,104                   23,498                  2,280
       Gain on marketable trading securities                             (558)                  (6,000)                  (494)
       Loss (gain) on available for sale securities                    22,028                       --                 (3,567)
       Deferred income taxes                                          (31,200)                  13,514                (11,617)
       Income tax benefits from stock option exercises                  2,712                    7,022                 27,336
       Amortization of deferred compensation                              515                      544                    980
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
           Accounts and interest receivable                              (555)                 (18,432)                   (91)
           Inventories                                                 (2,764)                  (2,035)                (5,334)
           Prepaid expenses and other current assets                   (3,773)                    (735)                  (263)
           Other long-term assets                                        (833)                      --                     --
           Accounts payable, trade                                     (1,073)                    (924)                 6,447
           Accrued expenses and other liabilities                         987                     (842)                 6,356
                                                               --------------          ---------------        ---------------
Net cash provided by operating activities                              39,130                   74,768                 62,971
                                                               --------------          ---------------        ---------------

Investing activities:
       Purchase of available for sale securities                      (13,761)                      --                (12,500)
       Proceeds from sale of available for sale securities                 --                       --                  6,291
       Costs associated with the acquisition of Cree
        Microwave                                                          --                   (1,946)                    --
       Purchase of securities held to maturity                       (118,807)                  (7,971)              (195,883)
       Proceeds from maturities of securities held to
        maturity                                                       66,965                  147,461                 11,457
       Purchase of and deposits for property and equipment            (41,635)                (106,194)               (78,047)
       Proceeds from sale of property and equipment                       721                      123                     --
       Purchase of patent rights                                       (1,318)                  (1,150)                  (727)
       Increase in other long-term assets                              (9,051)                 (26,910)                (5,141)
                                                               --------------          ---------------        ---------------
           Net cash (used in) provided by investing
            activities                                               (116,886)                   3,413               (274,550)
                                                               --------------          ---------------        ---------------
Financing activities:
       Net repayment of long-term debt                                     --                       --                    (47)
       Net proceeds from issuance of common stock                       7,235                   10,346                272,924
       Net proceeds from sale of put options                               --                    2,860                     --
       Repurchase of common stock                                     (20,297)                 (30,668)                    --
                                                               --------------          ---------------        ---------------
           Net cash (used in) provided by financing
            activities                                                (13,062)                 (17,462)               272,877
                                                               --------------          ---------------        ---------------

Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents                  (90,818)                  60,719                 61,298
Cash and cash equivalents:
       Beginning of year                                              164,562                  103,843                 42,545
                                                               --------------          ---------------        ---------------
       End of year                                             $       73,744          $       164,562        $       103,843
                                                               ==============          ===============        ===============
Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
       Cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized      $           --          $            --        $            13
                                                               ==============          ===============        ===============
       Cash paid for income taxes                              $        1,901          $         1,492        $           272
                                                               ==============          ===============        ===============

Non-cash investing and financing activities:
       Deferred compensation                                   $          515          $           544        $         1,768
                                                               ==============          ===============        ===============
       Conversion of note payable to common stock              $           --          $            --        $           431
                                                               ==============          ===============        ===============
       Issuance of common stock in connection with the
       acquisition of Cree Microwave                           $           --          $       113,717        $            --
                                                               ==============          ===============        ===============
</TABLE>

         The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
                              financial statements.

                                      -51-

<PAGE>

                                   CREE, INC.
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
           YEARS ENDED JUNE 30, 2002, JUNE 24, 2001 AND JUNE 25, 2000
                                 (In thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     (Accumulated    Accumulated
                                             Common      Additional                    Deficit)         Other           Total
                                             Stock        Paid-in       Deferred       Retained     Comprehensive   Shareholders'
                                            Par Value     Capital     Compensation     Earnings     Income/(Loss)      Equity
                                           ----------- ------------- -------------- ------------- ---------------- ---------------
<S>                                        <C>         <C>           <C>            <C>           <C>              <C>
Balance at June 27, 1999                      $  77      $ 113,268      $  (967)      $  17,638       $    987        $ 131,003

Common stock options and warrants
exercised for cash, 954 shares                    3          6,750                                                        6,753
Employees granted stock options, 137
shares                                                         785         (785)                                             --
Employees granted stock, 171 shares                            983         (983)                                             --
Common stock warrants granted, 16 shares                        31                                                           31
Loan converted to common stock, 169
shares                                                         431                                                          431
Issuance of common stock for cash, 3,289
shares                                            8        266,132                                                      266,140
Income tax benefits from stock option
exercises                                                   27,336                                                       27,336
Amortization of deferred compensation                                       980                                             980

Net income                                                                               30,520                          30,520
Unrealized loss on securities available
for sale, net of tax of $27                                                                                (52)             (52)
                                                                                                                     -------------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                     30,468
                                           ----------- ------------- -------------- ------------- ---------------- ---------------
Balance at June 25, 2000                         88        415,716       (1,755)         48,158            935          463,142

Common stock options and warrants
exercised for cash, 870 shares                    2          7,368                                                        7,370
Issuance of common stock for cash, 113
shares                                                       2,976                                                        2,976
Issuance of common stock in connection
with purchase business combination,
2,657 shares                                      3        113,505                                                      113,508
Purchase and retirement of 1,850
treasury shares                                  (2)       (30,666)                                                     (30,668)
Income tax benefits from stock option
exercises                                                    7,022                                                        7,022
Amortization of deferred compensation                                       544                                             544
Premium Received Put Option buy back                         2,860                                                        2,860

Net income                                                                               27,843                          27,843
Unrealized loss on securities available
for sale, net of tax of $3,667                                                                          (5,500)          (5,500)
                                                                                                                   ---------------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                     22,343
                                           ----------- ------------- -------------- ------------- ---------------- ---------------
Balance at June 24, 2001                         91        518,781       (1,211)         76,001         (4,565)         589,097

Common stock options exercised for cash,
1,053 shares                                      1          4,229                                                        4,230
Issuance of common stock for cash, 245
shares                                                       3,005                                                        3,005
Purchase and retirement of 1,489
treasury shares                                  (2)       (20,295)                                                     (20,297)
Income tax benefits from stock option
exercises                                                    2,712                                                        2,712
Amortization of deferred compensation                                       515                                             515

Net loss                                                                               (101,723)                       (101,723)
Unrealized losses on securities
available for sale, net of taxes of
$3,174                                                                                                 (11,253)         (11,253)

Losses on available for sale securities
reclassified from other comprehensive
income, net of taxes of $6,210 due to an
other than temporary decline in value                                                                   15,818           15,818
                                                                                                                   ---------------
Comprehensive loss                                                                                                      (97,158)
                                           ----------- ------------- -------------- ------------- ---------------- ---------------
Balance at June 30, 2002                      $  90      $ 508,432      $  (696)      $ (25,722)      $     --        $ 482,104
                                           =========== ============= ============== ============= ================ ===============
</TABLE>

    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                   statements.

                                      -52-

<PAGE>

                                   CREE, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                  JUNE 30, 2002

1.       NATURE OF BUSINESS

Cree, Inc., the "Company," or "Cree," a North Carolina corporation, develops,
manufactures, and markets silicon carbide ("SiC") and gallium nitride ("GaN")
based semiconductor materials and devices as well as radio frequency ("RF") and
microwave devices made from silicon. Revenues are primarily derived from the
sale of near ultra-violet, ("UV"), blue and green light emitting diodes
("LEDs"), SiC based materials and RF and microwave devices. The Company markets
its UV, blue and green LED chip products principally to customers who
incorporate them into packaged lamps for resale to original equipment
manufacturers. The Company also sells SiC material products primarily to
corporate, government, and university research laboratories. RF and microwave
devices are sold primarily to power amplifier manufacturers. In addition, the
Company is engaged in a variety of research programs related to the advancement
of SiC and GaN process technology and the development of electronic and
optoelectronic devices that take advantage of these materials' unique physical
and electronic properties. The Company has historically recovered the costs of a
significant portion of its research and development efforts from revenues on
contracts with agencies of the U.S. Federal government.

2.       SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND OTHER MATTERS

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Cree, Inc., and
its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cree Microwave, Inc. ("Cree Microwave"), Cree
Lighting Company ("Cree Lighting"), Cree Research FSC, Inc. ("FSC"), Cree
Funding, LLC ("Cree Funding"), Cree Employee Services Corporation, Cree
Technologies, Inc., CI Holdings, Limited, Cree Asia-Pacific, Inc and Cree Japan,
Inc. All material intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

Business Combination

On December 29, 2000, the Company completed the acquisition of the Cree
Microwave division (formerly known as UltraRF) of Spectrian Corporation, or
Spectrian, through the purchase of assets of the business by Cree's wholly owned
subsidiary, Cree Microwave, Inc. in a business combination accounted for using
the purchase method. Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, Cree
Microwave acquired substantially all of the net assets of the business from
Spectrian in exchange for a total of 2,656,917 shares of Cree common stock
valued at $113.5 million. Of the total shares issued, 191,094 shares were placed
in escrow and proceeds from the sale of such shares were retained in escrow to
secure Spectrian's representations, warranties and covenants under the Asset
Purchase Agreement. Under the terms of the escrow arrangement, one-half of the
funds were released to Spectrian in June 2001 and the balance was released in
December 2001 because no claims were made against the escrowed assets. The
results of operations of Cree Microwave have been included in the consolidated
results of the Company since the date of acquisition.

In connection with the acquisition of the Cree Microwave business, the Company
recognized a one-time charge of $17.4 million during fiscal 2001 representing
the write-off of the appraised value of certain acquired in-process research and
development costs as of the acquisition date.

                                      -53-

<PAGE>

Pro Forma Summary Data

The following pro forma summary data for the twelve months ended June 24, 2001
presents the consolidated results of operations as if the acquisition of Cree
Microwave made during 2001 had occurred as of June 26, 2000. These pro forma
results have been prepared for comparative purposes only and do not purport to
be indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisition been made as of
June 26, 2000 or of results that may occur in the future.

                                                   Year Ended June 24, 2001
                                                   (in 000's except per share
                                                             data)
                                                   --------------------------

      Pro forma revenue                                   $ 194,357
      Pro forma net income                                   42,065

      Pro forma basic net income per share                $    0.58
      Pro forma diluted net income per share              $    0.56

On May 1, 2000, the Company acquired Nitres, Inc. ("Nitres") in a business
combination accounted for as a pooling of interests. Nitres, became a wholly
owned subsidiary (Cree Lighting Company) of the Company through the exchange of
3,695,492 shares of the Company's common stock for all of the outstanding stock
of Nitres. In addition, the Company assumed outstanding stock options and
warrants, which after adjustment for the exchange represented a total of 304,446
options and warrants to purchase shares of Cree's common stock. The accompanying
consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2000 are based on the assumption
that the companies were combined for the full year. All prior period
consolidated financial statements have been restated to include the results of
operations, financial position and cash flows of Nitres, as though Nitres had
been a part of the Company for all periods presented.

Reconciliation of Previously Reported Operations - Selected Financial Data

The following table reflects the summarized results of operations of the
separate companies for the nine months ended March 26, 2000, the nearest
practical reporting period prior to the business combination on May 1, 2000. In
addition, a reconciliation of the amounts of net sales and net income previously
reported with restated amounts is included.

                                      -54-

<PAGE>

                                                                  (Unaudited)
                                                               Nine months ended
                                                                 March 26, 2000
                                                                   (in 000's)
                                                             -------------------
      Net sales and other revenue:
      As previously reported by Cree, Inc.                          $   72,342
      Nitres, Inc.                                                       2,887
      Elimination of intercompany transactions                             (27)
                                                             -------------------
      As restated                                                   $   75,202
                                                             ===================

      Net income (loss):
      As previously reported by Cree, Inc.                          $   19,575
      Nitres, Inc.                                                        (392)
      Elimination of intercompany transactions                             (20)
                                                             -------------------
      As restated                                                   $   19,163
                                                             ===================

Elimination of Prior Intercompany Transactions

Prior to May 1, 2000, the Company and Nitres, in the normal course of business,
entered into certain transactions for the purchase and sale of merchandise.
These intercompany transactions have been eliminated in the accompanying
restated consolidated financial statements.

Business Segments

The Company operates in two business segments, Cree and Cree Microwave. The Cree
segment incorporates its proprietary technology to produce wide bandgap compound
semiconductors using SiC and GaN. Products from this segment are sold for use in
cellular handsets, automotive backlighting, indicator lamps, full color LED
displays and other lighting applications as well as microwave and power
applications. The Cree segment also sells SiC material products to corporate,
government and university research laboratories and generates revenue from
contracts with agencies of the U.S. Federal government.

The Cree Microwave segment designs, manufactures and markets a line of
silicon-based laterally diffused metal oxide semiconductors, or LDMOS and
bipolar radio frequency power semiconductors and modules, the critical component
utilized in building power amplifiers for wireless infrastructure applications.

Summarized financial information concerning the reportable segments as of and
for the years ended June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001 is shown in the following
table. The "Other" column represents amounts excluded from specific segments
such as interest income and write-downs for investments made in publicly and
privately held equity securities. In addition, the "Other" column also includes
corporate assets such as cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments held
to maturity, marketable securities, interest receivable and long-term
investments held to maturity which have not been allocated to a specific
segment.

                                      -55-

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          As of and for the Year Ended                                          Cree
            June 30, 2002 (in 000's)                           Cree           Microwave          Other            Total
      -------------------------------------------------   ---------------  ---------------- ---------------- ---------------
      <S>                                                 <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>
      Revenue                                             $  130,639       $    24,795      $         --     $    155,434
      Depreciation and amortization                           30,168             2,232                --           32,400
      Loss before income taxes                                (4,891)          (89,384)          (36,139)        (130,414)
      Assets                                              $  289,921       $    19,187      $    195,087     $    504,195
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          As of and for the Year Ended                                          Cree
          June 24, 2001 (in 000's)                             Cree           Microwave          Other            Total
      -------------------------------------------------   ---------------  ---------------- ---------------- ---------------
      <S>                                                 <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>
      Revenue                                             $  157,999       $    19,228      $         --     $    177,227
      Depreciation and amortization                           20,991               957                --           21,948
      Income (loss) before income taxes                       51,743           (17,225)           15,668           50,186
      Assets                                              $  298,495       $    99,185      $    217,443     $    615,123
</TABLE>

      QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - UNAUDITED

      The following is a summary of the Company's consolidated quarterly results
      of operations for each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2002 and June
      24, 2001 (in thousands, except per share data).

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        September 23,        December 23,        March 24,        June 30,          Fiscal Year
                                            2001                 2001              2002             2002                2002
                                        ----------------------------------      ------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>                  <C>                <C>             <C>                 <C>
Net revenue                                    $43,166            $ 41,092          $ 33,376         $ 37,800          $ 155,434
Cost of revenue                                 23,262              21,717            24,999           22,098             92,076
Net income (loss)                              $ 6,460            $(17,376)         $(68,286)        $(22,521)         $(101,723)

Earnings (loss) per share:
      Basic                                    $  0.09              ($0.24)           ($0.94)          ($0.31)            ($1.40)
      Diluted                                  $  0.09              ($0.24)           ($0.94)          ($0.31)            ($1.40)
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        September 24,        December 24,        March 25,        June 24,          Fiscal Year
                                            2000                 2000              2001             2001                2001
                                        --------------       -------------      ------------    -------------       ------------
<S>                                     <C>                  <C>                <C>             <C>                 <C>
Net revenue                                    $37,642            $ 41,494          $ 53,365         $ 44,726          $ 177,227
Cost of revenue                                 17,076              19,420            27,668           25,537             89,701
Net income (loss)                              $12,655            $ 13,861          $ (5,182)        $  6,509          $  27,843

Earnings (loss) per share:
      Basic                                    $  0.18            $   0.19            ($0.07)        $   0.09          $    0.39
      Diluted                                  $  0.17            $   0.18            ($0.07)        $   0.09          $    0.37
</TABLE>

      Reclassifications

      Certain 2001 and 2000 amounts in the accompanying consolidated financial
      statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2002 presentation.
      These reclassifications had no effect on previously reported net income or
      shareholders' equity.

      Fiscal Year

      The Company's fiscal year is a 52 or 53-week period ending on the last
      Sunday in the month of June. Fiscal 2002 was a 53-week year that ended on
      June 30, 2002.

                                      -56-

<PAGE>

Estimates

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities,
at June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001, and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000.
Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue on product sales is recognized when persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, such as when a purchase order or contract is received from
the customer, the price is fixed, title of the goods has transferred and there
is a reasonable assurance of collection of the sales proceeds. We obtain written
purchase authorizations from our customers for a specified amount of product at
a specified price and consider delivery to have occurred at the time of
shipment. If inventory is maintained at a consigned location, revenue is
recognized when our customer pulls product for their use. We provide our
customers with a limited right of return. Revenue is recognized at shipment, and
we record a reserve for sales returns. Revenue from government contracts is
recorded on the percentage-of-completion method as expenses per contract are
incurred.

Contract revenue represents reimbursement by various U.S. Government entities to
aid in the development of the Company's technology. The applicable contracts
generally provide that the Company may elect to retain ownership of inventions
made in performing the work, subject to a non-transferable, non-exclusive
license retained by the government to practice the inventions for government
purposes. Contract revenue includes funding of direct research and development
costs and a portion of the Company's general and administrative expenses and
other operating expenses for contracts under which funding is expected to exceed
direct costs over the life of the contract. The specific reimbursement
provisions of the contracts, including the portion of the Company's general and
administrative expenses and other operating expenses that are reimbursed, vary
by contract. Such reimbursements are recorded as contract revenue. For contracts
under which the Company anticipates that direct costs will exceed amounts to be
funded over the life of the contract (i.e., certain cost share arrangements),
the Company reports direct costs as research and development expenses with
related reimbursements recorded as an offset to those expenses.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents consist of unrestricted cash accounts and highly
liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when
purchased.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term
investments, available for sale securities, accounts and interest receivable,
accounts payable, debt, and other liabilities approximate fair values at June
30, 2002 and June 24, 2001.

Investments

Investments are accounted for in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards 115 "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity
Securities" ("SFAS 115"). This statement requires certain securities to be
classified into three categories:

     (a)  Securities Held-to-Maturity- Debt securities that the entity has the
          positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are reported at
          amortized cost.

                                      -57-

<PAGE>

     (b)  Trading Securities- Debt and equity securities that are bought and
          held principally for the purpose of selling in the near term are
          reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses included in
          earnings.

     (c)  Securities Available-for-Sale- Debt and equity securities not
          classified as either securities held-to-maturity or trading securities
          are reported at fair value with unrealized gains or losses excluded
          from earnings and reported as a separate component of shareholders'
          equity.

At June 30, 2002, the Company held marketable equity securities
available-for-sale of two public companies. At June 30, 2002, the Company owned
356,000 common shares in the first public company at an average cost of $40.10
per share, or a total cost of $14.3 million. These shares were purchased through
two transactions between May 1999 and April 2000. In June 2000, 162,600 shares
were sold for $6.3 million, with a gain on the sale recognized for $3.6 million.
The fair market value of the remaining shares held as of June 30, 2002 was $1.9
million.

At June 30, 2002, the Company owned 691,000 common shares in the second public
company at an average cost of $19.91 per share, or a total cost of $13.8
million. These shares were purchased between June 2001 and October 2001. The
fair market value of these shares as of June 30, 2002 was $4.1 million.

Management views these transactions as strategic investments and the shares are
accounted for as "available-for-sale" securities under SFAS 115. The Company
carries these investments at fair value, based on quoted market prices, and
unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, are included in accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss), which is reflected as a separate component of
shareholders' equity. Realized gains and losses are recognized upon sale or when
declines in value are deemed to be "other than temporary" on our consolidated
statements of operations. The Company reviews equity holdings on a regular basis
to evaluate whether or not each security has experienced an
"other-than-temporary" decline in fair value. This policy requires, among other
things, a review of each of the companies' cash position, earnings\revenue
outlook, stock price performance, liquidity, ability to raise capital and
management\ownership. Based on this review, if the Company determines that an
"other-than-temporary" decline exists in the value of one of our marketable
equity securities, it is the Company's policy to write-down these equity
investments to the respective market value. The related write-down will then be
recorded as an investment loss on the Company's consolidated statements of
operations. As of June 30, 2002, the Company believed that an
"other-than-temporary" decline in market value had occurred in both of these
marketable equity investments. Accordingly, the Company has written down these
equity investments to their market values as of June 30, 2002 and recorded the
unrealized losses previously recorded as comprehensive items as a non-operating
loss on our consolidated statements of operations. The total amount of the
charge to non-operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations
for the year ended June 30, 2002 relating to these investments was $22.0
million. One of the companies the Company invested in funded a research and
development project for custom LEDs and lasers. The amount of funding received
by the Company was $4.4 million; $4.7 million and $3.1 million for the fiscal
years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000, respectively. The
amount of the research and development funding received from the company was
recorded as an offset to research and development expense. The Company does not
anticipate additional funding from this company.

As of June 30, 2002, the Company's short-term investments held to maturity
included $32.4 million in high-grade corporate bonds and other debt securities
that mature within one year. As of June 24, 2001, the Company's short-term
investments held to maturity totaled $36.9 million consisting of high-grade
corporate bonds. The Company purchased these investments with a portion of the
proceeds from its public stock offering in January 2000. The Company has the
intent and ability to hold these securities until maturity; therefore, they are
accounted for as "securities held-to-maturity" under SFAS 115. The

                                      -58-

<PAGE>

securities are reported on the consolidated balance sheets at amortized cost, as
a short-term investment with unpaid interest included in interest receivable.

As of June 30, 2002, the Company's long-term investments held to maturity
consisted of $64.2 million in high-grade corporate bond holdings and other debt
securities that mature after June 29, 2003. As of June 24, 2001, the Company's
long-term investments held to maturity consisted of $7.9 million in high-grade
corporate bond holdings. The Company purchased the corporate bonds with a
portion of the proceeds from the public stock offering in January 2000. The
Company has the intent and ability to hold these securities until maturity;
therefore, they are accounted for as "securities held-to-maturity" under SFAS
115. The securities are reported on the consolidated balance sheets at amortized
cost, as a long-term held to maturity investment with unpaid interest included
in interest receivable if interest is due in less than 12 months, and as a
long-term other asset if interest is due in more than 12 months. These
investments mature over periods ranging from 13 months to 2 years.

As of June 30, 2002, the Company maintained $16.0 million of net investments in
privately held companies, which are included in other assets on the consolidated
balance sheet. Since the Company does not have the ability to exercise
significant influence over the operations of these companies, these investment
balances are carried at cost and accounted for using the cost method of
accounting. Because the shares of stock the Company received in these
investments are not publicly traded, there is no established market for these
securities. The Company has a policy to review the fair value of these
investments on a regular basis to evaluate the carrying value of such
investments. This policy includes, but is not limited to, reviewing each of the
companies' cash position, financing needs, earnings\revenue outlook, operational
performance, management\ownership changes and competition. The evaluation
process is based on information requested from the privately held companies by
the Company. This information is not subject to the same disclosure regulations
as U.S. public companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is
subject to the timing and the accuracy of the data received from these
companies. If the Company determines that the carrying value of an investment is
at an amount in excess of fair value, it is the Company's policy to record a
write-down of the investment. This write-down is estimated based on the
information described above, and it is recorded as an investment loss on the
Company's consolidated statements of operations. During fiscal 2002 and fiscal
2001, the Company recognized write-downs of these investments of $20.4 million
and $4.6 million, respectively, representing the Company's best estimate of
"other-than-temporary" declines in value. Two of the companies we invested in
funded research and development projects. One of the projects was for brighter
LEDs; the other project was for SiC RF transistors. The total amount of funding
received by the Company was $3.5 million, $5.2 million and $0 for the fiscal
years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000, respectively. The
amount of the research and development funding received from the companies was
recorded as an offset to research and development expense. We anticipate
$500,000 of additional funding in fiscal 2003 under the remaining program.

During the first half of fiscal 2002, the Company purchased 150,000 common
shares in a public company at an average cost of $10.31 per share, or a total
cost of $1.5 million. These shares were purchased between September 2001 and
October 2001. The Company sold all of these common shares in November 2001 and
December 2001 at an average price of $14.03 per share, or total proceeds of $2.1
million. The sale of these marketable trading securities resulted in the Company
recording a realized gain on the sale of stock of $558,000. These securities
were classified as trading securities due to the short time they were owned by
the Company. During fiscal 2001, the Company purchased and sold marketable
available-for-sale securities that resulted in the Company recording a realized
gain on the sale of stock of $6.0 million, using the specific identification
method of cost determination for such investments.

                                      -59-

<PAGE>

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined
under the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. It is the Company's policy to
record a reserve against inventory once it has been determined that conditions
exist which may not allow the Company to sell the inventory for its intended
purpose, the inventory's value is determined to be less than cost, or it is
obsolete. The charge for the inventory reserves is recorded in cost of revenue
on the statement of operations. In the event the Company later sells inventory
that had been covered by a specific inventory reserve, the sale is recorded at
the actual selling price and the related cost of goods sold at the full
inventory cost. The Company evaluates inventory levels quarterly against sales
forecasts on a part-by-part basis and evaluates its overall inventory risk.
Reserves are adjusted to reflect inventory values in excess of forecasted sales
as well as overall inventory risk assessed by management.

As of June 30, 2002, the Company maintained a $2.3 million reserve for
inventory. Of the total reserve amount, $1.8 million is attributable to the Cree
Microwave segment and $477,000 is attributable to the Cree segment.

The majority of the reserve at Cree Microwave was recorded during the third
quarter of fiscal 2002, due to information that was obtained during contract
negotiations with Spectrian, its significant customer, regarding specific order
needs over the next several quarters. Spectrian has purchased more than 90% of
the products sold by Cree Microwave since it was acquired from Spectrian in
December 2000. During these contract negotiations, Spectrian indicated that it
would only purchase the latest generation LDMOS devices from Cree Microwave
after the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. As a result, the Company fully reserved
for inventories of non-LDMOS and other older devices deemed unsaleable in the
third quarter of fiscal 2002. The Company disposed of a portion of this
inventory during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, and the remainder will be
disposed of within the next twelve months.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company had inventory write-downs of
$690,000 related to a packaging issue identified by some customers for the
XBright(TM) family of products. At June 30, 2002, the Cree segment reserve
consisted of $477,000 for raw materials, LED and wafer finished goods inventory.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are recorded at cost and depreciated on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from three to
forty years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the asset
life or the life of the related lease. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance
are charged to expense as incurred. The costs for major renewals and
improvements are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
The cost and related accumulated depreciation of the assets are removed from the
accounts upon disposition and any resulting gain or loss is reflected in
operations. During the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25,
2000, the Company recorded $19.0 million, $100,000 and $1.3 million,
respectively, as losses on retirement or impairments of property and equipment
reflected in other operating expense on the consolidated statements of
operations.

During October 1999, the Company entered into two agreements with Charles and
Colvard, or C&C, to sell crystal growth equipment manufactured by the Company to
C&C at cost plus a reasonable overhead allocation. As a result of these
transactions, the Company recognized $227,000 in fiscal 2000 as "other operating
income" for the overhead allocation portion of the sales price. In May 2000, the
Company agreed to purchase all of the crystal growth equipment previously sold
to C&C for a purchase price of $5.0 million, which was less than the Company's
direct cost to manufacture the equipment.

                                      -60-

<PAGE>

In the second quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company completed a 42,000 square foot
facility expansion at its production site near Research Triangle Park, North
Carolina. In the third quarter of fiscal 2000, the Company purchased a 120,000
square foot facility on 17.5 acres of land adjacent to the existing production
site. The Company uses this facility for general and administrative purposes as
well as for general employee services functions. The cost to acquire this
facility was $8.1 million. In addition, in fiscal 2002, the Company completed
construction of a 147,000 square foot expansion of its main facility.

During fiscal 2000, the Company changed its depreciation policy to reflect lower
useful lives on new manufacturing equipment. The useful lives have been reduced
from nine years to five years for all manufacturing equipment purchased since
the beginning of fiscal year 2000. In management's estimate, this new policy was
necessary due to the changes in estimated useful lives of new equipment caused
by technology changes anticipated with the future development of larger diameter
wafers. Management estimates that the change in policy reduced the Company's
fiscal 2000 net income by $889,000 or $0.03 per share.

Impairment of Property and Equipment

In accordance with SFAS 121, the Company reviews long-lived assets for
impairment based on changes in circumstances that indicate their carrying
amounts may not be recoverable. During the year ended June 30, 2002, the Company
recorded impairment charges for property and equipment totaling $19.0 million
related to assets to be disposed of, which is included as an other operating
expense on the consolidated statements of operations. These impairment charges
were due to technology decisions or changes resulting in the obsolescence of the
assets. All of these assets were sold or disposed of by June 30, 2002.

Patent and License Rights

Patent rights reflect costs incurred to enhance and maintain the Company's
intellectual property position. License rights reflect costs incurred to use the
intellectual property of others. Both are amortized on a straight-line basis
over the lesser of 20 years from the date of patent application or over the
license period. The related amortization expense was $293,000, $194,000 and
$145,000 for the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000,
respectively. Total accumulated amortization for patents and license rights was
approximately $1.3 million and $990,000 at June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001,
respectively.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

During the third quarter of fiscal 2002, the Company determined that business
conditions for its Cree Microwave segment had changed due to several factors.
First, Cree Microwave amended its supply agreement with Spectrian effective
March 31, 2002, which resulted in a significant reduction in quarterly revenue
expectations. In addition, Cree Microwave's outlook for acquiring additional
customers in the near term weakened due to the deteriorating economic conditions
and long product qualification cycles. Also, many of the products that Spectrian
initially indicated it would purchase in the future have not yet been released
to production. Under the amended supply agreement, if Cree Microwave is not able
to produce LDMOS 8 devices qualified for Spectrian's applications in a timely
manner, revenue from Spectrian may be significantly reduced after the June 2002
quarter. If our revenue declines significantly, it would have an adverse effect
on our results of operations from this segment of business. Based on these
impairment indicators, the Company performed an asset impairment analysis in
accordance with SFAS 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
and Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of". As a result of this analysis, the
remaining balance of goodwill and intangible assets of $76.5 million was deemed
to be fully impaired, and was written off during the third quarter of fiscal
2002. This write-

                                      -61-

<PAGE>

off was recorded as "other expense" on the consolidated statements of
operations. See "Significant Sales Contracts" for further discussion of the
Spectrian contract.

Prior to the impairment charge that was recorded during the third quarter of
fiscal 2002, intangible assets included goodwill, current technology and
workforce-in-place associated with the acquisition of Cree Microwave accounted
for under the purchase method in December 2000. Goodwill was capitalized at
$81.5 million and represented the excess of cost over the fair value of assets
acquired and was amortized using the straight-line method over ten years.
Current technology and workforce-in-place represented assets have been assigned
values of $5.5 million and $800,000, respectively. These intangibles were being
amortized under the straight-line method over eight and five years,
respectively. During the first three-quarters of fiscal 2002, prior to the
impairment charge, the expense for intangible asset amortization was $6.8
million. During fiscal 2001, the Company recorded $4.5 million of intangible
asset amortization.

Research and Development

The U.S. Government provides funding through research contracts for several of
the Company's current research and development efforts. The contract funding may
be based on either a cost-plus or a cost-share arrangement. The amount of
funding under each contract is determined based on cost estimates that include
direct costs, plus an allocation for research and development, general and
administrative and the cost of capital expenses. Cost-plus funding is determined
based on actual costs plus a set percentage margin. For the cost-share
contracts, the actual costs are divided between the U.S. Government and the
Company based on the terms of the contract. The government's cost share is then
paid to the Company. Activities performed under these arrangements include
research regarding SiC and GaN materials and devices. The contracts typically
require the submission of a written report that documents the results of such
research, as well as some material deliverables.

The revenue and expense classification for contract activities is based on the
nature of the contract. For contracts where the Company anticipates that funding
will exceed direct costs over the life of the contract, funding is reported as
contract revenue and all direct costs are reported as costs of contract revenue.
For contracts under which the Company anticipates that direct costs will exceed
amounts to be funded over the life of the contract, costs are reported as
research and development expenses and related funding as an offset of those
expenses. The following table details information about contracts for which
direct expenses exceeded funding by period as included in research and
development expenses:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          Year Ended (in 000's)
                                                          -----------------------------------------------------
                                                              June 30,           June 24,           June 25,
                                                                2002               2001               2000
                                                          ----------------   ----------------   ---------------
<S>                                                       <C>                <C>                <C>
Net research and development costs                             $   17            $   435            $   538
Government funding                                                276              1,306                868
                                                          ----------------   ----------------   ---------------
Total direct costs incurred                                    $  293            $ 1,741            $ 1,406
                                                          ================   ================   ===============
</TABLE>

Customers contributed $9.0 million in fiscal 2002, $11.9 million in fiscal 2001
and $5.5 million in fiscal 2000 toward product research and development
activities. In addition, customers are committed to spend an additional $462,000
in fiscal 2003 for research and development activities.

                                      -62-

<PAGE>

Credit Risk, Major Customers and Major Suppliers

Financial instruments, which may subject the Company to a concentration of
credit risk, consist principally of short-term and long-term investments,
marketable securities, cash equivalents and accounts receivable. Short-term and
long-term investments consist primarily of high-grade corporate debt, commercial
paper, government securities and other investments at interest rates that vary
by security. The Company's cash equivalents consist primarily of money market
funds. Certain bank deposits may at times be in excess of the FDIC insurance
limits.

The Company sells its products to manufacturers and researchers worldwide and
generally requires no collateral. The Company maintains reserves for potential
credit losses, and such losses, in the aggregate, have generally been within
management's expectations. The Company presently derives its contract revenue
from contracts with the U.S. Government. Approximately 18% and 10% of the
Company's accounts receivable balance at June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001,
respectively, was due from the U.S. Government. The Company had amounts due from
Osram Opto Semiconductors GmbH, or Osram totaling 13% and 18%, of accounts
receivable balances at June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001, respectively. The
Company had amounts due from Spectrian totaling 8% and 9% of accounts receivable
balances at June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001, respectively. The Company had
amounts due from Sumitomo Corporation totaling 9% and 14% of accounts receivable
balances at June 30, 2002 and June 24, 2001, respectively.

The Company has derived its product and contract revenue from sales in the
United States, Malaysia, Other Asian countries, and Europe based on ship-to
locations for our products as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        Year ended
                                                        ------------------------------------------
                                                            June 30,     June 24,     June 25,
                                                              2002         2001         2000
                                                              ----         ----         ----
     <S>                                                    <C>          <C>          <C>
     United States ...................................         35%          31%          31%
     Malaysia ........................................         23%          17%          16%
     Other Asian Countries ...........................         34%          45%          48%
     Europe ..........................................          8%           7%           5%
</TABLE>

One customer accounted for 19%, 25%, and 26% of revenue for fiscal 2002, 2001,
and 2000, respectively. A second customer accounted for 14%, 22%, and 25% of
revenue for fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. A third customer
accounted for 2%, 3%, and 15% of revenue for fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000,
respectively. A fourth customer accounted for 16%, 11%, and 0% of revenue fiscal
2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. The U.S. Government accounted for 12%, 9%,
and 11% of revenues during fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively.

The Company depends on single or limited source suppliers for a number of raw
materials and components used in its products. Any interruption in the supply of
these key materials or components could have a significant adverse effect on the
Company's operations.

Over 90% of Cree Microwave revenues were derived from shipments to Spectrian in
fiscal 2002 as well as fiscal 2001. The Company's supply contract with Spectrian
commits them to a minimum purchase level of $16.3 million in fiscal 2003. If the
Company is unable to deliver qualified LDMOS 8 products; the amount of the
contractual supply agreement with Spectrian may be reduced significantly.

                                      -63-

<PAGE>

(Loss) Earnings Per Share

Basic (loss) earnings per common share is computed using the weighted average
number of common stock shares outstanding. Diluted (loss) earnings per common
share is computed using the weighted average number of common stock shares
outstanding adjusted for the incremental shares attributed to outstanding
options and warrants to purchase common stock, unless such incremental shares
would be antidilutive.

Accounting for Stock Based Compensation

In accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25"), no compensation expense is recorded for
stock options or other stock-based awards that are granted to employees with an
exercise price equal to or above the common stock price on the grant date.

In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement 123 "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"). SFAS 123
establishes fair value as the measurement basis for equity instruments issued in
exchange for goods or services and stock-based compensation plans. Fair value
may be measured using quoted market prices, option-pricing models or other
reasonable estimation methods. SFAS 123 permits the Company to choose between
adoption of the fair value based method or disclosing pro forma net (loss)
income information. The Statement is effective for transactions entered into
after December 31, 1995. The Company continues to account for stock-based
compensation in accordance with APB 25, as amended, and provides the pro forma
disclosures required by SFAS 123.

Income Taxes

Income taxes have been accounted for using the liability method in accordance
with FASB Statements of Financial Accounting Standards 109 "Accounting for
Income Taxes". Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of
assets and liabilities and their reported amounts.

Contingencies

The Company is involved in various legal proceedings related to the protection
of its intellectual property. Although the final resolution of these matters
cannot be determined, management's opinion is that the final outcome of these
matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or results of operations.

3.   ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET

The following is a summary of the components of accounts receivable, net:

                                                Year Ended (in 000's)
                                       -------------------------------------
                                         June 30, 2002      June 24, 2001
                                       ----------------   ------------------
     Billed trade receivables               $32,708            $31,982
     Unbilled contract receivables            2,339              3,218
                                       ----------------   ------------------
                                             35,047             35,200
     Allowance for sales returns               (455)              (350)
                                       ----------------   ------------------
     Total accounts receivable, net         $34,592            $34,850
                                       ================   ==================

                                      -64-

<PAGE>

The following table summarizes the changes in the Company's allowance for sales
returns for the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Year Ended (in 000's)
                                                    ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      June 30, 2002           June 24, 2001           June 25, 2000
                                                    ------------------      ------------------      ------------------
<S>                                                 <C>                     <C>                     <C>
Balance at beginning of year                                $350                   $ 250                   $ 175
Charges to cost and expenses                                 105                     100                      75
                                                    ------------------      ------------------      ------------------
Balance at end of year                                      $455                   $ 350                   $ 250
                                                    ==================      ==================      ==================
</TABLE>

4.      INVENTORY, NET

The following is a summary of inventory:

                                                  Year Ended (in 000's)
                                           ------------------------------------
                                              June 30,            June 24,
                                                2002                2001
                                           ---------------    -----------------
        Raw materials                          $ 3,908             $ 4,538
        Work-in-progress                         6,629               6,206
        Finished goods                           9,724               5,251
                                           ---------------    -----------------
                                                20,261              15,995
        Inventory reserve                       (2,295)               (793)
                                           ---------------    -----------------
        Total inventory, net                   $17,966             $15,202
                                           ===============    =================

The following table summarizes the changes in the Company's inventory reserve
for the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          Year Ended (in 000's)
                                                    ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      June 30, 2002           June 24, 2001           June 25, 2000
                                                    ------------------      ------------------      ------------------
<S>                                                 <C>                     <C>                     <C>
Balance at beginning of year                            $    793                  $   --                   $  --
Charges to cost and expenses                               6,234                   1,293                      --
Disposals (write-offs to reserve)                         (4,732)                   (500)                     --
                                                    ------------------      ------------------      ------------------
Balance at end of year                                  $  2,295                  $  793                   $  --
                                                    ==================      ==================      ==================
</TABLE>

5.      PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET

The following is a summary of property and equipment:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             Year ended (in 000's)
                                                                      -----------------------------------------
                                                                        June 30, 2002           June 24, 2001
                                                                      -----------------       -----------------
<S>                                                                   <C>                      <C>
              Office furnishings and safety systems                      $   5,170                $   3,755
              Land and buildings                                            93,148                   61,804
              Machinery and equipment                                      149,723                  131,110
              Computer hardware and software                                 5,810                    3,865
              Leasehold improvements                                         5,735                    4,106
                                                                      ----------------         ----------------
                                                                           259,586                  204,640
              Accumulated depreciation                                     (69,830)                 (44,234)
                                                                      ----------------         ----------------
                                                                           189,756                  160,406
              Construction in progress                                      21,929                   66,514
                                                                      ----------------         ----------------
              Property & Equipment, net                                  $ 211,685                $ 226,920
                                                                      ================         ================
</TABLE>

                                      -65-

<PAGE>

Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment totaled $32.4 million;
$21.9 million and $10.8 million for the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001
and June 25, 2000, respectively.

6.      ACCRUED EXPENSES

The following table reflects the components of other accrued expenses:

                                                    Year ended (in 000's)
                                           -------------------------------------
                                            June 30, 2002         June 24, 2001
                                           ----------------     ----------------
              Accrued legal fees                $1,806                $1,356
              Accrued taxes                        945                 1,357
              Deferred revenue                     741                    91
              Other accrued liabilities          1,477                 2,352
                                           ----------------     ----------------
              Total accrued expenses            $4,969                $5,156
                                           ================     ================

7.      SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

On January 18, 2001, Cree announced that its Board of Directors had authorized
the repurchase of up to four million shares of its outstanding common stock
through January 2002. Additionally, on March 22, 2001, Cree announced that its
Board of Directors had increased the repurchase limits under the stock
repurchase program announced in January 2001 to include an additional three
million shares. In February 2002, the Board of Directors approved the renewal of
this program through January 2003. During fiscal year ended June 30, 2002, the
Company repurchased 1.5 million shares at an average price of $13.63 per share
with an aggregate value of approximately $20.3 million. Since the inception of
the stock repurchase program, Cree has repurchased 3.3 million shares of its
common stock at an average price of $15.26 per share, with an aggregate value of
$51.0 million.

The Company intends to use available cash to finance purchases under the
program. At the discretion of the Company's management, the repurchase program
can be implemented through open market or privately negotiated transactions. The
Company will determine the time and extent of repurchases based on its
evaluation of market conditions and other factors.

On January 20, 2000, the Company completed a public offering of 6,578,000 shares
of its common stock. The price received in the offering was $42.56 per share.
The Company received net aggregate proceeds of approximately $266.1 million
after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering
costs. The net proceeds are being used primarily for manufacturing facility
expansion and purchase of additional equipment, the acquisition of an additional
facility, research and development, and general corporate purposes.

At June 27, 1999, the Articles of Incorporation of the Company authorized the
Company to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of common stock, with a par value of
$0.005 per share, and 3,000,000 shares of preferred stock, with a par value of
$0.01 per share. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more classes or
series with the number of shares, designation, relative rights, preferences, and
limitations of each class or series to be determined by resolution of the Board
of Directors. The Articles of Incorporation were amended, effective at the close
of business on July 26, 1999, to effect a two-for-one split of the common stock.
Effective November 14, 2000 the Articles of Incorporation were amended to

                                      -66-

<PAGE>

increase the authorized number of common shares to 100,000,000, with a par value
of $0.0025. In addition, the Company split its stock again on December 1, 2000.
As a result, as of December 1, 2000, the Articles of Incorporation authorize the
Company to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock, with a par value of
$0.00125 per share. The amendments did not change the number of authorized
shares or other provisions relating to the preferred stock. On July 30, 1999 and
December 1, 2000, the Company issued to each holder of record of common stock a
certificate evidencing the additional shares of common stock resulting from the
stock split. All references in this document to common stock and per common
share data have been adjusted to reflect the two common stock splits.

On May 29, 2002, the Company's board of directors adopted a shareholder rights
plan, pursuant to which stock purchase rights were distributed to shareholders
at a rate of one right with respect to each share of common stock held of record
as of June 10, 2002. The rights plan is designed to enhance the board's ability
to prevent an acquirer from depriving shareholders of the long-term value of
their investment and to protect shareholders against attempts to acquire the
Company by means of unfair or abusive takeover tactics. The rights become
exercisable based upon certain limited conditions related to acquisitions of
stock, tender offers and certain business combinations involving the Company.
The Company amended the Articles of Incorporation to designate 200,000 shares of
preferred stock as "Series A Preferred Stock" in connection with the
implementation of a shareholders' rights plan. At June 30, 2002, rights to
purchase 100,000 shares of Preferred Stock had been distributed to shareholders.

At June 30, 2002, the Company had reserved a total of 18,202,000 shares of its
common stock and 100,000 shares of its Series A preferred stock for future
issuance as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             Number of shares
                                                                             ----------------
         <S>                                                                 <C>
         For exercise of outstanding common stock options                       14,684,000
         For future common stock option awards                                   3,355,000
         For possible future issuance to employees under the
             Employee Stock Purchase Plan                                          163,000
                                                                           ---------------------
         Total common shares reserved                                           18,202,000
                                                                           =====================
         Series A Preferred Stock reserved for exercise of rights
         issued under shareholders' rights plan                                    100,000
                                                                           =====================
</TABLE>

8.       EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

The Company adopted an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") on November 2,
1999. The ESPP provides employees of the Company, and its majority-owned
subsidiaries, with an opportunity to purchase common stock through payroll
deductions. The purchase price is set at 85% of the fair market value of common
stock at the beginning of the participation period, or 85% of the price on the
purchase date, whichever is lower. Contributions are limited to 15% of an
employee's compensation. The participation periods have a 12 month duration,
with new participation periods beginning in November and May of each year. Each
participation period has two purchase dates, one in October and the other in
April. The Board of Directors has reserved 600,000 shares of common stock for
issuance under the ESPP. As of June 30, 2002, 437,305 shares of common stock had
been purchased under the ESPP.

9.       STOCK OPTIONS AND STOCK WARRANTS

The Company has stock option plans to provide incentives to eligible employees,
officers, and directors in the form of incentive stock options and non-qualified
stock options. The Board of Directors determines the option price (not to be
less than fair market value) at the date of grant. Options, particularly those
assumed or exchanged as a result of acquisitions, have various vesting schedules
and

                                      -67-

<PAGE>

expiration dates. The majority of options vest and become exercisable over three
to five years and have seven to ten year terms.

Stock option activity during the periods ending as indicated is as follows (in
000's, except per share data):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     June 30, 2002                  June 24, 2001                  June 25, 2000
                               --------------------------     --------------------------    ----------------------------
                                Number         Weighted        Number         Weighted       Number           Weighted
                                  of           Average           Of           Average          Of             Average
                                Options         Price          Options         Price         Options           Price
                               ----------    ------------     ----------    ------------    ----------     -------------
<S>                             <C>            <C>             <C>             <C>          <C>               <C>
Outstanding -
beginning of year                13,522         $ 26.93          8,180         $ 13.55        7,226            $  4.07
Granted                           3,375         $ 20.48          6,566         $ 41.41        3,506            $ 25.73
Exercised                        (1,054)        $  4.01           (797)        $  5.19       (2,150)           $  2.57
Forfeited                        (1,159)        $ 42.50           (427)        $ 33.80         (402)           $  8.07
                               ----------                     ----------                    ---------
Outstanding - end of year        14,684         $ 25.86         13,522         $ 26.93        8,180            $ 13.55
                               ==========                     ==========                    =========
Exercisable - end of year         5,947         $ 20.39          3,878         $ 11.83        2,706            $  2.99
                               ==========                     ==========                    =========
</TABLE>

As permitted by SFAS 123, the Company has elected to follow APB 25 and related
interpretations and amendments in accounting for its employee stock option
plans. In connection with the options obtained through the acquisition of
Nitres, the Company had deferred compensation of $696,000, $1.2 million, and
$1.8 million at June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001, and June 25, 2000, respectively.
This amount represents the difference between the grant price and the deemed
fair value of stock and stock options granted previously. Of this deferred
compensation, $515,000, $501,000, and $980,000 was amortized for the years ended
June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001, and June 25, 2000, respectively.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
SFAS 123 and has been determined as if the Company had accounted for its
employee stock options under the fair value method of that Statement. The
Company computes fair value for this purpose using the Black-Scholes pricing
model. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions
and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the
input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price
volatility. The Company's options have characteristics significantly different
from traded options, and the input assumptions used in the model can materially
affect the fair value estimate. The assumptions used in this model to estimate
fair value and resulting values are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Stock Option Plans                                ESPP
                                   --------------------------------------    ---------------------------------------
                                     June 30,      June 24,      June 25,      June 30,      June 24,       June 25,
                                       2002          2001          2000          2002          2001          2000
                                   ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------     ---------
<S>                                     <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Expected dividend yield                 0.0%          0.0%          0.0%          0.0%          0.0%          0.0%
Risk-free interest rate                 4.6%          5.4%          6.2%          2.2%          5.0%          5.6%
Expected volatility                    90.0%         90.0%         88.0%         90.0%         90.0%         88.0%
Expected life (in years)                4.8           5.7           5.2           0.8           0.8           0.8
Weighted-average fair
   value per share                   $14.52        $31.51        $24.99         $6.50        $16.73        $12.67
</TABLE>

                                      -68-

<PAGE>

For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the options
is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period. The Company's pro
forma information is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Year Ended (in 000's, except per share data)
                                                       ----------------------------------------------------------
                                                            June 30,             June 24,            June 25,
                                                              2002                 2001                2000
                                                        -----------------    -----------------    ---------------
     <S>                                                 <C>                   <C>                 <C>
     Net (loss) income, as reported                      $ (101,723)           $  27,843           $ 30,520
     Basic (loss) earnings per share as reported         $    (1.40)           $    0.39           $   0.46
     Diluted (loss) earnings per share as reported       $    (1.40)           $    0.37           $   0.43
     Pro forma net (loss) income                         $ (162,305)           $ (21,737)          $ 21,507
     Pro forma basic net (loss) income per share         $    (2.23)           $   (0.30)          $   0.33
     Pro forma diluted net (loss) income per share       $    (2.23)           $   (0.29)          $   0.31
</TABLE>

Selected information regarding stock options as of June 30, 2002 follows (in
000's, except per share data):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                               Options Outstanding                                    Options Exercisable
     ------------------------------------------------------------------------   --------------------------------
                                                 Weighted-
                                                 Average
                                                Remaining         Weighted-                          Weighted-
                                                  Life             Average                            Average
      Range of Exercise        Number of           in             Exercise         Number of         Exercise
            Prices              Options           Years             Price           Options            Price
     ---------------------    -------------    --------------    ------------   ---------------    -------------
     <S>                       <C>              <C>                <C>             <C>              <C>
     $  0.01 - $  4.84           2,856             5.4             $  3.35           2,445           $  3.40
     $  6.16 - $ 12.49             881             6.7             $ 10.38             328           $  8.48
     $ 13.89 - $ 19.10           2,127             7.0             $ 16.85             712           $ 18.30
     $ 20.24 - $ 33.50           4,475             6.7             $ 24.91             821           $ 26.58
     $ 34.63 - $ 71.53           4,345             8.1             $ 49.17           1,641           $ 45.91
                             -------------                                     ---------------
                                14,684             6.9             $ 25.89           5,947           $ 20.39
                             =============                                     ===============
</TABLE>

In connection with the Company's September 1995 private placement, the Company
issued warrants to purchase 1.2 million shares of the Company's common stock.
These warrants had a 5-year term and an exercise price of $6.81 per share, which
represents fair value on the date of grant. Warrants to purchase 462,000, and
54,000, shares of common stock were exercised during the fiscal years ended June
24, 2001, and June 25, 2000, respectively. As of June 24, 2001, all warrants
issued under this private placement had been exercised. In conjunction with the
Company's acquisition of Nitres in May 2000, the Company assumed outstanding
warrants that had been previously issued by Nitres in February 2000. These
warrants had a 7-year term and an exercise price of $1.28 per share. During the
year ended June 24, 2001, the remaining warrants to purchase 31,360 shares of
the Company's common stock were exercised.

10.      LEASE COMMITMENTS

The Company currently leases six facilities. These facilities are comprised of
both office and manufacturing space. The lease term for the first facility began
in September 1995 and a renewal option was exercised in September 1999. The
lease on this facility expires in September 2002. The lease for the second
facility runs month to month with a 90-day termination clause, which has been
exercised, and will terminate in August 2002. The third facility lease expires
in approximately three years. The fourth facility has a remaining sub-lease term
for approximately nine and one-half years. The lease for the fifth facility
expires in June 2005. The lease for the sixth facility expires in February 2003.
All of the remaining lease agreements provide for rental adjustments for
increases in base rent (up to specific limits) property taxes and general
property maintenance.

                                      -69-

<PAGE>

Rent expense associated with these and other expired leases totaled $1.7
million, $1.2 million and $420,000 for the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24,
2001, and June 25, 2000, respectively. Sublease income was $224,000, $166,000
and $0 for the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000,
respectively. Future minimum rentals as of June 30, 2002 under these leases are
as follows:

                                                          Minimum Rental
                                                              Amount
                    Fiscal Years Ended                      (in 000's)
                -----------------------------          ---------------------
                       June 29, 2003                       $  1,732
                       June 27, 2004                          1,697
                       June 26, 2005                          1,697
                       June 25, 2006                          1,029
                       June 24, 2007                            907
                       Thereafter                             4,006
                                                       ---------------------
                         Total                             $ 11,068
                                                       =====================

Income generated from subleases is targeted to be $185,000 and $191,000 for the
fiscal years ended June 29, 2003 and June 27, 2004, respectively.

11.      LONG-TERM DEBT

In December 1998, Cree Lighting (previously Nitres) received a $431,000 bridge
loan from a group of investors to finance its working capital needs. The bridge
loan was made to Cree Lighting subject to conversion rights that would result in
conversion to shares of Nitres common stock in the event of a financing or one
year passing. In February 2000, the $431,000 bridge loan was converted to shares
of Nitres common stock, which were converted into 168,750 shares of the
Company's common stock at the time of the Company's acquisition of Nitres in May
2000.

In November 1997, the Company entered into a term loan with a commercial bank
for up to $10.0 million to finance the purchase and upfit of the new main
facility in Durham, North Carolina. Approximately $3.0 million was disbursed
under the loan to finance the initial purchase of the facility with the
remaining proceeds disbursed on a monthly basis based on actual expenditures
incurred. The loan, which was collateralized by the purchased property and
subsequent upfits, accrued interest at a fixed rate of 8% and carried customary
covenants, including the maintenance of a minimum tangible net worth and other
requirements. On February 17, 1999, the entire $10.0 million indebtedness was
repaid with proceeds received from the public stock offering. Interest expense
was $0, $0 and $13,000 for the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June
25, 2000, respectively.

12.      INCOME TAXES

The Company accounts for its income taxes under the provisions of SFAS 109.
Under the asset and liability method of SFAS 109, deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the
year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or
settled. Under SFAS 109, the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.

                                      -70-

<PAGE>

The actual income tax expense for the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001,
and June 25, 2000, differed from the amounts computed by applying the U.S.
federal tax rate of 35% to pretax earnings as a result of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Year Ended (in 000's)
                                                       --------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         June 30, 2002       June 24, 2001         June 25, 2000
                                                       ------------------    ------------------    ------------------
<S>                                                       <C>                    <C>                   <C>
Federal income tax provision at statutory rate            ($45,644)              $ 17,565              $ 16,382
State tax provision                                         (3,009)                 1,439                 1,517
Increase (decrease) in income tax expense resulting
from:
         Foreign sales corporation                              --                 (2,108)               (1,682)
         Investments                                        20,562                     --                    --
         Research and development                             (600)                  (538)                 (258)
         Amortization                                           --                   (203)                   --
         In process research and development                    --                  6,090                    --
         Non-deductible transaction costs                       --                     --                   327
         Other                                                  --                     98                    --
                                                       ------------------    ------------------    ------------------
Income tax (benefit) expense                              ($28,691)              $ 22,343              $ 16,286
                                                       ==================    ==================    ==================
</TABLE>


The following are the components of the provision for income taxes for the years
ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25, 2000:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Year Ended (in 000's)
                                                       --------------------------------------------------------------
Current:                                               June 30, 2002         June 24, 2001         June 25, 2000
                                                       ------------------    ------------------    ------------------
<S>                                                    <C>                    <C>                   <C>
      Federal                                              ($2,200)              $  7,111              $    856
      State                                                      -                    832                   200
                                                       ------------------    ------------------    ------------------
                                                            (2,200)                 7,943                 1,056
Deferred:
      Federal                                              (23,482)                13,988                15,111
      State                                                 (3,009)                   412                   119
                                                       ------------------    ------------------    ------------------
                                                           (26,491)                14,400                15,230

Net Provision                                             ($28,691)              $ 22,343              $ 16,286
                                                       ==================    ==================    ==================
</TABLE>

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions
of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows:

                                      -71-

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             Year Ended (in 000's)
                                                          June 30, 2002         June 24, 2001          June 25, 2000
                                                        ------------------    ------------------    --------------------
      <S>                                               <C>                   <C>                   <C>
      Current deferred tax asset (liability):
       Compensation                                         $    522             $     491                $    268
        Inventory                                                374                   544                     202
        Bad debt                                                 230                   129                      93
        Marketable equity securities and other                    (4)                3,008                  (1,018)
                                                        ------------------    ------------------    --------------------
      Net current deferred tax asset (liability)               1,122                 4,172                    (455)

      Non current deferred tax asset (liability):
        Alternative minimum tax                                   --                 2,295                   1,690
        Net operating loss carryforwards                       9,059                   421                  11,641
        Research tax credits                                   2,869                 2,369                     785
        Fixed assets                                         (12,763)               (7,925)                 (6,060)
        Goodwill                                              31,501                    --                      --
        State tax credits and other                           (3,301)               (1,010)                  2,568
                                                        ------------------    ------------------    --------------------
      Net non current deferred tax asset
      (liability)                                             27,365                (3,850)                 10,624

                                                        ------------------    ------------------    --------------------
      Net deferred tax asset                                $ 28,487             $     322                $ 10,169
                                                        ==================    ==================    ====================
</TABLE>

As of June 30, 2002, the Company has Federal net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $20.0 million and state net economic loss carryovers of
approximately $26.0 million. The Federal net operating loss will begin to expire
in 2021. The state net economic loss carryforward will expire beginning in 2011.
Research and development tax credits begin to expire in 2011. State incentive
tax credits begin to expire in 2004.

13.      RETIREMENT PLAN

The Company maintains an employee benefit plan (the "Plan") pursuant to Section
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Plan, there is no fixed dollar
amount of retirement benefits, and actual benefits received by employees will
depend on the amount of each employee's account balance at the time of
retirement. All employees are eligible to participate under the Plan on the
first day of a new fiscal month after date of hire. The Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation does not insure the Plan. The Company may, at its discretion, make
contributions to the Plan. However, the Company did not make any contributions
to the Plan during the years ended June 30, 2002, June 24, 2001 and June 25,
2000.

14.      (LOSS) EARNINGS PER SHARE

The following computation reconciles the differences between the basic and
diluted earnings per share presentations:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                Year Ended (in 000's, except per share data)
                                                          ----------------------------------------------------------
                                                              June 30,             June 24,            June 25,
                                                                2002                 2001                2000
                                                          ------------------    ----------------    ----------------
     <S>                                                  <C>                   <C>                 <C>
     Basic:
     Net (loss) income                                      ($ 101,723)            $ 27,843            $ 30,520
                                                          ==================    ================    ================
     Weighted average common shares                             72,718               72,243              65,930
                                                          ==================    ================    ================
     Basic (loss) earnings per share                           ($ 1.40)            $   0.39            $   0.46
                                                          ==================    ================    ================

     Diluted:
     Net (loss) income                                      ($ 101,723)            $ 27,843            $ 30,520
                                                          ==================    ================    ================
     Weighted average common shares-basic                       72,718               72,243              65,930
     Dilutive effect of stock options & warrants                    --                3,492               4,504

                                                          ------------------    ----------------    ----------------
     Weighted average common shares-diluted                     72,718               75,735              70,434
                                                          ==================    ================    ================
     Diluted (loss) earnings per share                         ($ 1.40)            $   0.37            $   0.43
                                                          ==================    ================    ================
</TABLE>

                                      -72-

<PAGE>

Potential common shares that would have the effect of increasing diluted
earnings per share are considered to be antidilutive. In accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 128, "Earnings Per Share", and these
shares were not included in calculating diluted earnings per share. For the year
ended June 30, 2002, there were 10.4 million shares considered to be
antidilutive. As of June 24, 2001 there were 6.4 million shares that were not
included in calculating diluted earnings per share because their effect was
antidilutive. As of June 25, 2000, there were no potential shares considered to
be antidilutive.

15.  NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

In July 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards. 141,
"Business Combinations," ("SFAS 141) and Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142"). SFAS 141
requires that all business combinations be accounted for under the purchase
method only and that certain acquired intangible assets in a business
combination be recognized as assets apart from goodwill. SFAS 142 requires that
ratable amortization of goodwill be replaced with periodic tests of the
goodwill's impairment and that intangible assets other than goodwill be
amortized over the useful life. SFAS 141 is effective for all business
combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and for all business combinations
accounted for by the purchase method for which the date of acquisition is after
June 30, 2001. The provisions of SFAS 142 will be effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2001, and will be adopted by the Company in fiscal
2003. The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 141 and SFAS 142 to have
a material impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position, or
cash flows.

In August 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 143,
"Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" ("SFAS 143"). SFAS 143 requires an
entity to record a liability for an obligation associated with the retirement of
an asset at the time that the liability is incurred. This is done by
capitalizing the cost as part of the carrying value of the related asset and
depreciating it over the remaining useful life of that asset. The standard is
effective for financial statements for fiscal years beginning after June 15,
2002 and will be adopted by the Company in fiscal 2003. The Company does not
expect the adoption of SFAS 143 to have a material impact on the Company's
results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

In October 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
144, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to be Disposed Of" ("SFAS"). SFAS 144 addresses how and when to measure
impairment on long-lived assets and how to account for long-lived assets that an
entity plans to dispose of either through sale, abandonment, exchange or
distribution to owners. The new provisions supersede SFAS 121, which addressed
asset impairment and certain provisions of APB Opinion 30 related to reporting
the effects of the disposal of a business segment. This pronouncement requires
expected future operating losses from discontinued operations to be recorded in
the period in which the losses are incurred rather than the measurement date.
Under SFAS 144, more dispositions may qualify for discontinued operations
treatment in the income statement. The provisions of SFAS 144 are effective for
financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001.
The Company will adopt SFAS 144 in fiscal 2003. The Company does not expect

                                      -73-

<PAGE>

the adoption of SFAS 144 to have a material impact on the Company's results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows.

In April 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 145,
"Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 62, Amendment of FASB Statement
No. 13, and Technical Corrections" ("SFAS 145"). SFAS 145 requires gains and
losses on extinguishments of debt to be classified as income or loss from
continuing operations rather than as extraordinary items as previously required
under Statement 4. Extraordinary treatment will be required for certain
extinguishments as provided in APB 30. SFAS 145 also amends Statement 13 to
require certain modifications to capital leases be treated as a sale-leaseback
and modifies the accounting for sub-leases when the original lessee remains a
secondary obligor (or guarantor). In addition, SFAS 145 rescinded Statement 44
addressing the accounting for intangible assets of motor carriers and made
numerous technical corrections. SFAS 145 is effective for all fiscal years
beginning after May 15, 2002 and will be adopted by the Company on July 1, 2003.
The Company does not expect the adoption of SFAS 145 to have a material impact
on the Company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.

In July 2002, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 146,
"Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities" ("SFAS 146").
SFAS 146, which nullified EITF Issue 94-3, "Liability Recognition for Certain
Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including
Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)", requires that a liability for a
cost associated with an exit or disposal activity be recognized when the
liability is incurred. Under Issue 94-3, a liability for an exit cost was
recognized at the date of an entity's commitment to an exit plan. The provisions
of this Statement are effective for exit or disposal activities that are
initiated after December 31, 2002. The Company does not expect the adoption of
SFAS 146 to have a material impact on the Company's results of operations,
financial position, or cash flows.

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure

          None.

                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information called for in items 10 through 13 is incorporated by reference
from the Company's definitive proxy statement relating to its annual meeting of
stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within 120 days after the end of fiscal 2002.

                                      -74-

<PAGE>

                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) (1) and (2) Financial statements and financial statement schedule - the
    financial statements and reports of independent auditors are filed as part
    of this report (see index to Consolidated Financial Statements at Part II
    Item 7 on page 39 of this Form 10-K). The financial statement schedules are
    not included in this item as they are either not applicable or are included
    as part of the consolidated financial statements.

(a) (3) The following exhibits have been or are being filed herewith and are
    numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K:

EXHIBIT NO.   DESCRIPTION
    3.1       Articles of Incorporation, as amended
    3.2       Bylaws, as amended (1)
    4.1       Specimen Common Stock Certificate
    4.2       Rights Agreement dated as of May 30, 2002 between the Company and
              American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, including the form of
              Rights Certificate and the Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred
              Stock, attached thereto as Exhibits B and C, respectively (2)
    10.1      Equity Compensation Plan, as amended and restated December 1, 2000
              (3) *
    10.2      Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors (terminated as to
              future grants pursuant to Board action dated September 1, 1997)
              (4) *
    10.3      Nitres, Inc. 1999 Stock Option/Issuance Plan * (terminated as to
              future grants following the aquisation of Nitres, Inc. by the
              Registrant effective May 1, 2000)
    10.4      2001 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan *
    10.5      Fiscal 2001 Stock Option Bonus Plan * (plan expired September 30,
              2001)
    10.6      Fiscal 2002 Stock Option Bonus Plan * (plan expires September 30,
              2002)
    10.7      Management Incentive Compensation Program - Fiscal Year 2001 Plan
              (3) *
    10.8      Fiscal 2002 Management Incentive Plan (5) *
    10.9      Employment Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2000, between the
              Company and M. Todd Tucker (6) *
    10.10     License Agreement between the Company and North Carolina State
              University dated December 3, 1987 (7)
    10.11     Amendment to License Agreement between the Company and North
              Carolina State University dated September 11, 1989 (7)
    10.12     Sublease agreement, dated December 29, 2000, between Zoltar
              Acquisition Inc. (now Cree Microwave, Inc.) and Spectrian
              Corporation (8)
    21.1      Subsidiaries of Registrant
    23.1      Consent of Independent Auditors

(1) Incorporated by reference herein. Filed as an exhibit to the Company's
    Annual Report filed on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    on August 27, 2001.
(2) Incorporated by reference herein. Filed as an exhibit to the Company's
    Registration Statement filed on Form 8-A with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission on May 30, 2002.
(3) Incorporated by reference herein. Filed as an exhibit to the Company's
    Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission on February 2, 2001.
(4) Incorporated by reference herein. Filed as an exhibit to the Company's
    Registration Statement filed on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-98958, and
    effective with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 3, 1995.
(5) Incorporated by reference herein. Filed as an exhibit to the Company's
    Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission on February 5, 2002.

                                      -75-

<PAGE>

(6) Incorporated by reference herein. Filed as an exhibit to the Company's
    Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission on November 2, 2001.
(7) Incorporated by reference herein. Filed as an exhibit to the Company's
    Registration Statement filed on Form SB-2, Registration No. 33-55998, and
    declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 8,
    1993.
(8) Incorporated by reference herein. Filed as an exhibit to the Company's
    Current Report filed on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    on January 12, 2001.
* Management Contract or Compensatory Plan

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

    On May 30, 2002 the Company filed a Form 8-K announcing a dividend
    distribution of one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding
    share of the Company's common stock, $.00125 par value to shareholders of
    record at the close of business on June 10, 2002.

                                      -76-

<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                              CREE, INC.
Date:  August 16, 2002
                                              By: /s/ Charles M. Swoboda
                                                 ------------------------
                                                 Charles M. Swoboda
                                                 Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
      Signature                              Title                               Date
      ---------                              -----                               ----
<S>                                   <C>                                    <C>
/s/ F. Neal Hunter
- ----------------------------------    Chairman of the Board of Directors     August 16, 2002
F. Neal Hunter


/s/ Charles M. Swoboda
- ----------------------------------    Chief Executive Officer and            August 16, 2002
Charles M. Swoboda                    Director


/s/ Cynthia B. Merrell
- ----------------------------------    Chief Financial Officer and            August 16, 2002
Cynthia B. Merrell                    Chief Accounting Officer


/s/ James E. Dykes
- ----------------------------------    Director                               August 16, 20020
James E. Dykes


/s/ William J. O'Meara
- ----------------------------------    Director                               August 16, 2002
William J. O'Meara


/s/ John W. Palmour, Ph.D.
- ----------------------------------    Director                               August 16, 2002
John W. Palmour, Ph.D.


/s/ Robert J. Potter, Ph.D.
- ----------------------------------    Director                               August 16, 2002
Robert J. Potter, Ph.D.


/s/ Dolph W. von Arx
- ----------------------------------    Director                               August 16, 2002
Dolph W. von Arx
</TABLE>

                                      -77-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>dex31.txt
<DESCRIPTION>ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                     Exhibit 3.1

                             ARTICLES OF RESTATEMENT
                                       OF
                            ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                               CREE RESEARCH, INC.

Pursuant to Section 55-10-07 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the
undersigned corporation hereby submits the following for the purpose of amending
and restating its Articles of Incorporation:

1.   The name of the corporation is Cree Research, Inc.

2.   The text of the Restated Articles of Incorporation is attached.

3.   These Restated Articles of Incorporation contain amendments requiring
     shareholder approval, and shareholder approval was obtained as required by
     Chapter 55 of the North Carolina General Statutes at a meeting duly called
     for said purpose on November 3, 1998.

4.   The Restated Articles of Incorporation do not contain an amendment
     providing for the exchange, reclassification or cancellation of issued
     shares.

This the 5/th/ day of November, 1998.

                                        CREE RESEARCH, INC.


                                        By:       /s/ Adam H. Broome
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Adam H. Broome, Secretary

<PAGE>

                       RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                               CREE RESEARCH, INC.

                                    ARTICLE I

     The name of the Corporation is Cree Research, Inc.

                                   ARTICLE II

     The period of duration of the Corporation shall be perpetual.

                                   ARTICLE III

     The purpose for which the Corporation is organized is to engage in any
lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under Chapter 55
of the General Statutes of North Carolina.

                                   ARTICLE IV

The aggregate number of shares of capital stock which the Corporation shall have
authority to issue is 33,000,000 shares divided into two classes consisting of
(a) 30,000,000 shares of Common Stock with a par value of $ 0.005 per share and
(b) 3,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock with a par value of $0.01 per share. The
Board of Directors is authorized from time to time to establish one or more
series of Preferred Stock and to determine the preferences, limitations and
relative rights of the Preferred Stock before issuance of any shares of that
class and of any series of Preferred Stock before issuance of shares of that
series.

                                    ARTICLE V

     The number of directors of the Corporation may be fixed by the bylaws.

                                   ARTICLE VI

     There shall be no preemptive rights with respect to the shares of the
capital stock of the Corporation.

                                   ARTICLE VII

     No director of the Corporation shall have personal liability arising out of
an action whether by or in the right of the Corporation or otherwise for
monetary damages for breach of his or her duty as a director; provided, however,
that the foregoing shall not limit or eliminate the personal liability of a
director with respect to (i) acts or omissions not made in good faith that such
director at the time of such breach knew or believed were in conflict with the
best interests

<PAGE>

of the Corporation, (ii) any liability under Section 55-8-33 of the North
Carolina General Statutes or any successor provision, (iii) any transaction from
which such director derived an improper personal benefit or (iv) acts or
omissions occurring prior to the date of the effectiveness of this Article. As
used in this Article, the term "improper personal benefit" does not include a
director's compensation or other incidental benefit for or on account of his or
her service as a director, officer, employee, independent contractor, attorney
or consultant of the Corporation.

     Furthermore, notwithstanding the foregoing provision, in the event that
Section 55-2-02 or any other provision of the North Carolina General Statutes is
amended or enacted to permit further limitation or elimination of the personal
liability of a director, the personal liability of the Corporation's directors
shall be limited or eliminated to the fullest extent permitted by the applicable
law.

     This Article shall not affect a charter or bylaw provision or contract or
resolution of the Corporation indemnifying or agreeing to indemnify a director
against personal liability. Any repeal or modification of this Article shall not
adversely affect any limitation hereunder on the personal liability of a
director with respect to acts or omissions occurring prior to such repeal or
modification.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

     The name and address of the incorporator is Fred D. Hutchison, 2626
Glenwood Avenue, Raleigh, North Carolina 27608.

<PAGE>

                              ARTICLES OF AMENDMENT
                                       OF
                            ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                               CREE RESEARCH, INC.

     Pursuant to Section 55-10-06 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the
undersigned corporation hereby submits the following Articles of Amendment for
the purpose of amending its Articles of Incorporation:

1.   The name of the corporation is Cree Research, Inc.

2.   The text of Article IV of the Articles of Incorporation is amended to read
     in its entirety as follows:

          "The aggregate number of shares of capital stock which the Corporation
          shall have authority to issue is 63,000,000 shares divided into two
          classes consisting of 60,000,000 shares of Common Stock with a par
          value of $ 0.0025 per share and 3,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock
          with a par value of $0.01 per share. The Board of Directors is
          authorized from time to time to establish one or more series of
          Preferred Stock and to determine the preferences, limitations and
          relative rights of the Preferred Stock before issuance of any shares
          of that class and of any series of Preferred Stock before issuance of
          shares of that series."

3.   No exchange, reclassification or cancellation of issued shares will be
     effected by the amendment except as follows:

     (a)  Upon the effectiveness of these Articles of Amendment, each issued and
          unissued authorized share of Common Stock, $0.005 par value per share,
          shall automatically be changed into two whole shares of Common Stock,
          $0.0025 par value per share.

     (b)  The corporation will issue, on July 30, 1999, to each person who is a
          record holder of Common Stock upon the effectiveness of these Articles
          of Amendment, a certificate evidencing the additional shares of Common
          Stock owned by such holder as a result of the amendment.

     (c)  Each Common Stock certificate properly issued by the corporation prior
          to the effectiveness of these Articles of Amendment which remains
          outstanding at the time these Articles become effective shall, upon
          and after such effectiveness, and without any requirement for action
          by the holder thereof, be deemed a certificate evidencing a number of
          shares of Common Stock, $0.0025 par value per share, equal to the
          number of shares stated on the face of such certificate, without
          regard to any par value amount stated on such certificate.

<PAGE>

     4.   The amendment was duly adopted on July 12, 1999 by the board of
          directors of the corporation in accordance with Section 55-10-02(4) of
          the North Carolina General Statutes. No shareholder approval is
          required for adoption of these Articles of Amendment since the
          corporation had only shares of Common Stock outstanding and the
          amendment merely changes each issued and unissued authorized share of
          the outstanding class into a greater number of whole shares.

     5.   These Articles of Amendment shall be effective as of 5:00 p.m.,
          Eastern Daylight Time, on July 26, 1999.

          Signed this the 14th day of July, 1999.


                                          CREE RESEARCH, INC.



                                          By:   /s/  Adam H. Broome
                                              ----------------------------------
                                               Adam H. Broome, Secretary

<PAGE>

                             ARTICLES OF AMENDMENT
                                       OF
                           ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                              CREE RESEARCH, INC.

     Pursuant to Section 55-10-06 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the
undersigned corporation hereby submits the following Articles of Amendment for
the purpose of amending its Articles of Incorporation:

1.   The name of the corporation is Cree Research, Inc.

2.   The text of Article I of the Articles of Incorporation is amended to read
     in its entirety as follows:

                   "The name of the corporation is Cree, Inc."

3.   No exchange, reclassification or cancellation of issued shares will be
     effected by the amendment.

4.   The date of adoption of the amendment was November 2, 1999.

4.   The amendment was approved by shareholder action as required by Chapter 55
     of the North Carolina General Statutes.

5.   These Articles of Amendment shall be effective on January 1, 2000.

     Signed this the 7/th/ day of December, 1999.

                                             CREE RESEARCH, INC.



                                             By:   /s/ Adam H. Broome
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Adam H. Broome, Secretary

<PAGE>

                              ARTICLES OF AMENDMENT
                                       OF
                            ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                                   CREE, INC.

     Pursuant to Section 55-10-06 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the
undersigned corporation hereby submits the following Articles of Amendment for
the purpose of amending its Articles of Incorporation:

1.   The name of the corporation is Cree, Inc.

2.   The text of Article IV of the Articles of Incorporation is amended to read
     in its entirety as follows:

          "The aggregate number of shares of capital stock which the
          Corporation shall have authority to issue is 103,000,000
          shares divided into two classes consisting of 100,000,000
          shares of Common Stock with a par value of $ 0.0025 per
          share and 3,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock with a par
          value of $0.01 per share. The Board of Directors is
          authorized from time to time to establish one or more series
          of Preferred Stock and to determine the preferences,
          limitations and relative rights of the Preferred Stock
          before issuance of any shares of that class and of any
          series of Preferred Stock before issuance of shares of that
          series."

3.   No exchange, reclassification or cancellation of issued shares will be
     effected by the amendment.

4.   The date of adoption of the amendment was October 31, 2000.

5.   The amendment was approved by shareholder action, and such shareholder
     approval was obtained as required by Chapter 55 of the North Carolina
     General Statutes.

6.   These articles will be effective upon filing.

Signed this the 14/th/ day of November, 2000.

                                        CREE, INC.

                                        By:     /s/ Adam H. Broome
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                Adam H. Broome, Secretary

<PAGE>

                              ARTICLES OF AMENDMENT
                                       OF
                            ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                                   CREE, INC.

     Pursuant to Section 55-10-06 of the General Statutes of North Carolina, the
undersigned corporation hereby submits the following Articles of Amendment for
the purpose of amending its Articles of Incorporation:

1.   The name of the corporation is Cree, Inc.

2.   The text of Article IV of the Articles of Incorporation is amended to read
     in its entirety as follows:

          "The aggregate number of shares of capital stock which the
          Corporation shall have authority to issue is 203,000,000
          shares divided into two classes consisting of 200,000,000
          shares of Common Stock with a par value of $0.00125 per
          share and 3,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock with a par
          value of $0.01 per share. The Board of Directors is
          authorized from time to time to establish one or more series
          of Preferred Stock and to determine the preferences,
          limitations and relative rights of the Preferred Stock
          before issuance of any shares of that class and of any
          series of Preferred Stock before issuance of shares of that
          series."

3.   No exchange, reclassification or cancellation of issued shares will be
     effected by the amendment except as follows:

     (a)  Upon the effectiveness of these Articles of Amendment, each issued and
          unissued authorized share of Common Stock, $0.0025 par value per
          share, shall automatically be changed into two whole shares of Common
          Stock, $0.00125 par value per share.

     (b)  The corporation will issue, on or about December 8, 2000, to each
          person who is a record holder of Common Stock upon the effectiveness
          of these Articles of Amendment, a certificate evidencing the
          additional shares of Common Stock owned by such holder as a result of
          the amendment.

     (c)  Each Common Stock certificate properly issued by the corporation prior
          to the effectiveness of these Articles of Amendment which remains
          outstanding at the time these Articles become effective shall, upon
          and after such effectiveness, and without any requirement for action
          by the holder thereof, be deemed a certificate evidencing a number of
          shares of Common Stock, $0.00125 par value per share, equal to the
          number of shares stated on the face of such certificate, without
          regard to any par value amount stated on such certificate.

<PAGE>

4.   The amendment was duly adopted on October 30, 2000 by the board of
     directors of the corporation in accordance with Section 55-10-02(4) of the
     North Carolina General Statutes. No shareholder approval is required for
     adoption of these Articles of Amendment since the corporation had only
     shares of Common Stock outstanding and the amendment merely changes each
     issued and unissued authorized share of the outstanding class into a
     greater number of whole shares.

5.   These Articles of Amendment shall be effective as of 5:00 p.m., Eastern
     Standard Time, on December 1, 2000.

     Signed this the 28th day of November, 2000.

                                        CREE, INC.

                                        By:   /s/  Adam H. Broome
                                            ------------------------------------
                                              Adam H. Broome, Secretary

<PAGE>

                             State of North Carolina

                      Department of the Secretary of State

                              ARTICLES OF AMENDMENT
                                       OF
                            ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                                   CREE, INC.

Pursuant to Section 55-10-06 and Section 55-6-02 of the General Statutes of
North Carolina, the undersigned corporation hereby submits the following
Articles of Amendment for the purpose of amending its Articles of Incorporation
to fix the preferences, limitations, and relative rights of a series of its
shares:

       I.    The name of the corporation is Cree, Inc.

       II.   The text of the amendment adopted is as follows:

       The Articles of Incorporation of the corporation are hereby amended as
follows:

       Article IV of the Articles of Incorporation is amended by inserting the
following new paragraphs at the end of the existing provisions of Article IV:

       A series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation is hereby created and the
designation and amount thereof and the preferences, relative rights, and powers
of the shares of such series, and the qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereof, are fixed, determined and set forth as follows:

       (a)   Designation and Amount. The shares of such series shall be
designated as "Series A Preferred Stock," $.01 par value per share, and the
number of shares constituting such series shall be two hundred thousand
(200,000). Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by action of the
Board of Directors; provided that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares
of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then
outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of
outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any
outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A
Preferred Stock.

       (b)   Dividends and Distributions.

             (1)   Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any
series of Preferred Stock (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to
the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock and of
any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared
by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose,
quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of March, June, September
and December in each year

<PAGE>

(each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment
Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first
issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an
amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $10
or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, one
thousand (1,000) times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and
one thousand (1,000) times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of
all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in
shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common
Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the
immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the
first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or
fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation
shall declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of
Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than
payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number
of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of
shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event
under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such
amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common
Stock outstanding immediately after such event, and the denominator of which is
the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to
such event.

             (2)   The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution
on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section
immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock
(other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the
event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock
during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next
subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $10 per share on the
Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.

             (3)   Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on
outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend
Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of
issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly
Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to
accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the
determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to
receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in
either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative
from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall
not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in
an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and
payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis
among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a
record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared
thereon, which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to the
date fixed for the payment thereof.

<PAGE>

       (c)   Voting Rights. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock
shall have the following voting rights:

             (1)   Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set
forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof
to one thousand (1,000) votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the
shareholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time
declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common
Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than a
payment of dividend in shares of Common Stock into a greater or lesser number of
shares of Common Stock), then in each such case the number of votes per share to
which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately
prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction,
the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately after such event, and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

             (2)   Except as otherwise provided herein, in any articles of
amendment to articles of incorporation of the Corporation, or by law, the
holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of
Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general
voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a
vote of shareholders of the Corporation.

             (3)   Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law,
holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and
their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to
vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate
action.

       (d)   Certain Restrictions.

             (1)   Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or
distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided above are in
arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and
distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock
outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:

                   (i)    declare or pay dividends, or make any other
distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;

                   (ii)   declare or pay  dividends, or make any other
distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A
Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock
and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in
proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then
entitled;

                   (iii)  redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for
consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up)

<PAGE>

to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time
redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in
exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to
dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A
Preferred Stock; or

                   (iv)   redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for
consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock
ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with
a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board
of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of
Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other
relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall
determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the
respective series or classes.

             (2)   The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the
Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of
stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (d)(1),
purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.

       (e)   Reacquired Shares. Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased
or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be
retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares
shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred
Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock, subject to
the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in articles of
amendment of articles of incorporation of the Corporation, or as otherwise
required by law.

       (f)   Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up.

             Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation,
no distribution shall be made (i) to the holders of shares of stock ranking
junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up)
to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount
equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not
declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per
share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to
one thousand (1,000) times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to
holders of shares of Common Stock or (ii) to the holders of shares of stock
ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably
on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the
total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such
liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In the event the Corporation shall at
any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of
Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the
outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by
payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number
of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which
holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to
such event under clause (i) of the preceding

<PAGE>

sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately after such event, and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

       (g)   Consolidation, Merger, etc. In case the Corporation shall enter
into any consolidation, merger, combination, share exchange or other transaction
in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other
stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each
share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged
or changed into an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment
hereinafter set forth) equal to one thousand (1,000) times the aggregate amount
of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the
case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or
exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any
dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a
subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common
Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than payment of a dividend in shares of
Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in
each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to
the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted
by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number
of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event, and the
denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event.

       (h)   No Redemption. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be
redeemable.

       (i)   Rank. The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other
series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and
the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such series shall provide
otherwise.

       (j)   Amendment. The Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation shall
not be further amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the
preferences, rights or powers of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect
them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least
two-thirds (2/3) or more of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock,
voting separately as a single class.

       (k)   Fractional Shares. Series A Preferred Stock may be issued in
fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such
holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends,
participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of
holders of Series A Participating Preferred Stock.

<PAGE>

       III.  The foregoing amendment was duly adopted and approved on the 29/th/
day of May, 2002, by the board of directors without shareholder action, which
was not required because the amendment only fixes the preferences, limitations
and relative rights of a series of the corporation's preferred stock pursuant to
authority granted to the directors by the corporation's Articles of
Incorporation and Section 55-6-02 of the General Statutes of North Carolina.

       IV.   These articles shall be effective upon filing.


                        [Signature appears on next page]








<PAGE>

           [Signature page to Cree Preferred Stock Charter Amendment]


       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the corporation has caused this instrument to be duly
executed as of the 29th day of May, 2002.


                                  CREE, INC.


                                  By:      /s/ Charles M. Swoboda
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                    Name:  Charles M. Swoboda
                                    Title: President and Chief Executive Officer

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>dex41.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SPECIMAN OF COMMON STOCK CERTIFICATE
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                     Exhibit 4.1

 NUMBER                                                                   SHARES
CRXXXXXX

                                   [CREE LOGO]

           INCORPORATED UNDER THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA

                                                             SEE REVERSE FOR
                                                             CERTAIN DEFINITIONS
COMMON STOCK                                                 CUSIP 225447 10 1


THIS CERTIFIES THAT




is the registered holder of

           FULLY PAID AND NON-ASSESSABLE SHARES OF THE COMMON STOCK OF

                                   CREE, INC.

transferable on the books of the Corporation by the holder hereof in person or
by duly authorized attorney upon surrender of this certificate properly
endorsed. This certificate is not valid unless countersigned by the Transfer
Agent and registered by the Registrar.

     WITNESS the facsimile seal of the Corporation and the facsimile signatures
of its duly authorized officers.

Dated:

   /s/ Adam H. Broome         [CREE CORPORATE SEAL]     /s/ Charles M. Swoboda
                  Secretary                                            President

COUNTERSIGNED AND REGISTERED:
AMERICAN STOCK TRANSFER & TRUST COMPANY

(NEW YORK, NEW YORK)
TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR

_________________________________
AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE

<PAGE>

                                   CREE, INC.

THE CORPORATION IS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE DIFFERENT CLASSES AND SERIES OF CAPITAL
STOCK. THE CORPORATION WILL FURNISH ANY SHAREHOLDER UPON REQUEST, IN WRITING AND
WITHOUT CHARGE, A STATEMENT OF THE DESIGNATIONS, RELATIVE RIGHTS, PREFERENCES
AND LIMITATIONS APPLICABLE TO EACH CLASS OF CAPITAL STOCK OF THE CORPORATION AND
OF THE VARIATIONS IN RIGHTS, PREFERENCES AND LIMITATIONS DETERMINED FOR EACH
SERIES AND THE AUTHORITY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO DETERMINE VARIATIONS FOR
FUTURE SERIES.

THIS CERTIFICATE ALSO EVIDENCES AND ENTITLES THE HOLDER HEREOF TO CERTAIN RIGHTS
AS SET FORTH IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT BETWEEN CREE, INC. (THE "COMPANY") AND
AMERICAN STOCK TRANSFER & TRUST COMPANY, DATED AS OF MAY 30, 2002 (AS IT MAY BE
AMENDED, MODIFIED OR SUPPLEMENTED FROM TIME TO TIME, THE "RIGHTS AGREEMENT"),
THE TERMS OF WHICH ARE HEREBY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE. UNDER CERTAIN
CIRCUMSTANCES, AS SET FORTH IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT, SUCH RIGHTS WILL BE
EVIDENCED BY SEPARATE CERTIFICATES AND WILL NO LONGER BE EVIDENCED BY THIS
CERTIFICATE. THE COMPANY WILL MAIL TO THE HOLDER OF THIS CERTIFICATE A COPY OF
THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT, AS IN EFFECT ON THE DATE OF MAILING, WITHOUT CHARGE
PROMPTLY AFTER RECEIPT OF A WRITTEN REQUEST THEREFOR. UNDER CERTAIN
CIRCUMSTANCES SET FORTH IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT, RIGHTS ISSUED TO, OR HELD BY,
ANY PERSON WHO IS, WAS OR BECOMES AN ACQUIRING PERSON OR ANY AFFILIATE OR
ASSOCIATE THEREOF (AS SUCH TERMS ARE DEFINED IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT), WHETHER
CURRENTLY HELD BY OR ON BEHALF OF SUCH PERSON OR BY ANY SUBSEQUENT HOLDER OF
SUCH RIGHTS, SHALL BECOME NULL AND VOID.

The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this
certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full
according to applicable laws or regulations:

<TABLE>
<S>                                             <C>
TEN COM - as tenants in common                  UNIF GIFT MIN ACT -______ Custodian _______
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties                             (Cust)           (Minor)
JT TEN  - as joint tenants with right of                  under Uniform Gifts to  Minors
        Survivorship and not as tenants                   Act __________________________
        in common                                                      (State)
</TABLE>

     Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.

FOR VALUE RECEIVED, ______________________________  hereby sell, assign and
transfer unto

PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITIES OR OTHER
IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE

________________________________________________________________________________
  (PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING ZIP CODE, OF ASSIGNEE)

______________________________________________________________________ shares of
the Common Stock represented by the within certificate, and do hereby
irrevocably constitute and appoint

________________________________________________________________________________
Attorney to transfer the said stock on the books of the Corporation with full
power of substitution in the premises.

Dated ________________________________

<PAGE>

                                   X____________________________________________


                                   X____________________________________________
                                   NOTICE:  THE SIGNATURE(S) TO THIS ASSIGNMENT
                                   MUST CORRESPOND WITH THE NAME AS WRITTEN UPON
                                   THE FACE OF THE CERTIFICATE IN EVERY
                                   PARTICULAR, WITHOUT ALTERATION OR
                                   ENLARGEMENT, OR ANY CHANGE WHATSOEVER.

                                   Signature(s) Guaranteed: ____________________
                                   THE SIGNATURE(S) MUST BE GUARANTEED BY AN
                                   ELIGIBLE GUARANTOR INSTITUTION SUCH AS A
                                   SECURITIES BROKER/DEALER, COMMERCIAL BANK,
                                   TRUST COMPANY, SAVINGS ASSOCIATION OR A
                                   CREDIT UNION PARTICIPATING IN A MEDALLION
                                   PROGRAM PURSUANT TO RULE 17Ad-15 OF THE
                                   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED

KEEP THIS CERTIFICATE IN A SAFE PLACE. IF IT IS LOST, STOLEN, MUTILATED OR
DESTROYED, THE CORPORATION WILL REQUIRE A BOND OF INDEMNITY AS A CONDITION TO
THE ISSUANCE OF A REPLACEMENT CERTIFICATE.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.3
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>dex103.txt
<DESCRIPTION>STOCK OPTION / INSURANCE PLAN
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                   Exhibit 10.3

                                  NITRES, INC.
                      1999 STOCK OPTION/STOCK ISSUANCE PLAN

                                   ARTICLE ONE

                               GENERAL PROVISIONS

I.   PURPOSE OF THE PLAN

     This 1999 Stock Option/Stock Issuance Plan is intended to promote the
interests of Nitres, Inc., a California corporation, by providing eligible
persons in the Corporation's employ or service with the opportunity to acquire a
proprietary interest, or otherwise increase their proprietary interest, in the
Corporation as an incentive for them to continue in such employ or service.

     Capitalized terms herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in
the attached Appendix.

II.  STRUCTURE OF THE PLAN

     A.    The Plan shall be divided into two (2) separate equity programs:

           (i)  the Option Grant Program under which eligible persons may, at
                the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be granted options to
                purchase shares of Common Stock, and

           (ii) the Stock Issuance Program under which eligible persons may, at
                the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be issued shares of
                Common Stock directly, either through the immediate purchase of
                such shares or as a bonus for services rendered the Corporation
                (or any Parent or Subsidiary).

     B.    The provisions of Articles One and Four shall apply to both equity
programs under the Plan and shall accordingly govern the interests of all
persons under the Plan.

III. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN

     A.    The Plan shall be administered by the Board. However, any or all
administrative functions otherwise exercisable by the Board may be delegated to
the Committee. Members of the Committee shall serve for such period of time as
the Board may determine and shall be subject to removal by the Board at any
time. The Board may also at any time terminate the functions of the Committee
and reassume all powers and authority previously delegated to the Committee.

     B.    The Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority (subject
to the provisions of the Plan) to establish such rules and regulations as it may
deem appropriate for proper administration of the Plan and to make such
determinations under, and issue such interpretations of, the Plan and any
outstanding options or stock issuances thereunder as it may

<PAGE>

deem necessary or advisable. Decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be final
and binding on all parties who have an interest in the Plan or any option or
stock issuance thereunder.

IV.  ELIGIBILITY

     A.    The persons eligible to participate in the Plan are as follows:

           (i)  Employees,

           (ii) non-employee members of the Board or the non-employee members of
                the board of directors of any Patent or Subsidiary, and
                consultants and other independent advisors who provide services
                to the Corporation (or any Patent or Subsidiary).

     B.    The Plan Administrator shall have full authority to determine, (i)
with respect to the grants made under the Option Grant Program, which eligible
persons are to receive the option grants, the time or times when those grants
are to be made, the number of shares to be covered by such grant, the status of
the granted option as either an Incentive Option or a Non-Statutory Option, the
time or times when each option is to become exercisable, the vesting schedule
(if any) applicable to the option shares and the maximum term for which the
option is to remain outstanding, and (ii) with respect to stock issuances made
under the Stock Issuance Program, which eligible persons are to receive such
stock issuances, the time or times those issuances are to be made, the number of
shares to be issued to each Participant, the vesting schedule (if any)
applicable to the issued shares and the consideration to be paid by the
Participant for such shares.

     C.    The Plan Administrator shall have the absolute discretion either to
grant options in accordance with the Option Grant Program or to effect stock
issuances in accordance with the Stock Issuance Program.

V.   STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

     A.    The stock issuable under the Plan shall be shares of authorized but
unissued or reacquired Common Stock. The maximum number of shares of Common
Stock which may be issued over the term of the Plan shall not exceed 1,558,750
shares.

     B.    Shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding options shall be
available for subsequent issuance under the Plan to the extent (i) the options
expire or terminate for any reason prior to exercise in full or (ii) the options
are cancelled in accordance with the cancellation-regrant provisions of Article
Two. Unvested shares issued under the Plan and subsequently repurchased by the
Corporation, at the option exercise or direct issue price paid per share,
pursuant to the Corporation's repurchase rights under the Plan shall be added
back to the number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the
Plan and shall accordingly be available for reissuance through one or more
subsequent option grants or direct stock issuances under the Plan.

     C.    Should any change be made to the Common Stock by reason of any stock
split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of
shares or other change

<PAGE>

affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's
receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the
maximum number and/or class of securities issuable under the Plan and (ii) the
number and/o class of securities and the exercise price per share in effect
under each outstanding option in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of
benefits thereunder. The adjustments determined by the Plan Administrator shall
be final, binding and conclusive. In no event shall any such adjustments be made
in connection with the conversion of one or more outstanding shares of the
Corporation's preferred stock into shares of Common Stock.

                                   ARTICLE TWO

                              OPTIONS GRANT PROGRAM

I.   OPTION TERMS

     Each option shall be evidenced by one or more documents in the form
approved by the Plan Administrator; provided, however, that each such document
shall comply with the terms specified below. Each document evidencing an
Incentive Option shall, in addition, be subject to the provisions of the Plan
applicable to such options.

     A.    Exercise Price.


           1.   The exercise price per share shall be fixed by the Plan
Administrator in accordance with the following provisions:

           (i)  The exercise price per share shall not be less than eighty-five
                percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock
                on the option grant date.

           (ii) If the person to whom the option is granted is a 10%
                Shareholder, then the exercise price per share shall not be less
                than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value per
                share of Common Stock on the option grant date.

           2.   The exercise price shall become immediately due upon exercise of
the option and shall, subject to the provisions of Section I of Article Four and
the documents evidencing the option, be payable in cash or check made payable to
the Corporation. Should the Common Stock be registered under Section 12 of the
1934 Act at the time the option is exercised, then the exercise price may also
be paid as follows:

           (i)  in shares of Common Stock held for the requisite period
                necessary to avoid a charge to the Corporation's earnings for
                financial reporting purposes and valued at Fair Market Value on
                the Exercise Date; or

           (ii) to the extent the option is exercised for vested shares, through
                a special sale and remittance pursuant to which the Optionee
                shall concurrently provide

<PAGE>

                   irrevocable instructions (A) to a Corporation-designed
                   brokerage firm to effect the immediate sale of the purchased
                   shares and remit to the Corporation, out of the sale proceeds
                   available on the settlement date, sufficient funds to cover
                   the aggregate exercise price payable for the purchased shares
                   plus all applicable Federal, state and local income and
                   employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation
                   by reason of such exercise and (B) to the Corporation to
                   deliver the certificates for the purchased shares directly to
                   such brokerage firm in order to complete the sale.

         Except to the extent such sale and remittance procedure is utilized,
payment of the exercise price for the purchased shares must be made on the
Exercise Date.

         B. Exercise and Term of Options. Each option shall be exercisable at
such time or times, during such period and for such number of shares as shall be
determined by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the documents evidencing
the option grant. However, no option shall have a term in excess of ten (10)
years measured from the option grant date.

         C. Effect of Termination of Service.

            1. The following provisions shall govern the exercise of any options
held by the Optionee at the time of cessation of Service or death:

            (i)    Should the Optionee cease to remain in Service for any reason
                   other than death, Disability or Misconduct, then the Optionee
                   shall have a period of three (3) months following the date of
                   such cessation of Service during which to exercise each
                   outstanding option held by such Optionee.

            (ii)   Should Optionee's Service terminate by reason of Disability,
                   then the Optionee shall have a period of twelve (12) months
                   following the date of such cessation of Service during which
                   to exercise each outstanding option held by such Optionee.

            (iii)  If the Optionee dies while holding an outstanding option,
                   then the personal representative of his or her estate or the
                   person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant
                   to the Optionee's will or the laws of inheritance shall have
                   a twelve (12)-month period following the date of the
                   Optionee's death to exercise such option.

            (iv)   Under no circumstances, however, shall any such option be
                   exercisable after the specified expiration of the option
                   term.

            (v)    During the applicable post-Service exercise period, the
                   option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than
                   the number of vested shares for which the option is
                   exercisable on the date of the Optionee's cessation of
                   Service. Upon the expiration of the applicable exercise
                   period of (if earlier)

<PAGE>

                        upon the expiration of the option term, the option shall
                        terminate and cease to be outstanding for any vested
                        shares for which the option has not been exercised.
                        However, the option shall, immediately upon Optionee's
                        cessation of Service, terminate and cease to be
                        outstanding with respect to any and all option shares
                        for which the option is not otherwise at the time
                        exercisable or in which the Optionee is not otherwise at
                        that time vested.

                  (vi)  Should Optionee's Service be terminated for Misconduct,
                        then all outstanding options held by the Optionee shall
                        terminate immediately and cease to remain outstanding.

                  2. The Plan Administrator shall have the discretion,
exercisable either at the time an option is granted or at any time while the
option remains outstanding, to:

                  (i)   extend the period of time for which the option is to
                        remain exercisable following Optionee's cessation of
                        Service or death from the limited period otherwise in
                        effect for that option to such greater period of time as
                        the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate, but in no
                        event beyond the expiration of the option term, and/or

                  (ii)  permit the option to be exercised, during the applicable
                        post-Service exercise period, not only with respect to
                        the number of vested shares of Common Stock for which
                        such option is exercisable at the time of the Optionee's
                        cessation of Service but also with respect to one or
                        more additional installments in which the Optionee would
                        have vested under the option had the Optionee continued
                        in Service.

         D.       Shareholder  Rights. The holder of an option shall have no
shareholder rights with respect to the shares subject to the option until such
person shall have exercised the option, paid the exercise price and become the
recordholder of the purchased shares.

         E.       Unvested Shares. The Plan Administrator shall have the
discretion to grant options which are exercisable for unvested shares of Common
Stock. Should the Optionee cease Service while holding such unvested shares, the
Corporation shall have the right to repurchase, at the exercise price paid per
share, any or all of those unvested shares. The terms upon which such repurchase
right shall be exercisable (including the period and procedure for exercise and
the appropriate vesting schedule for the purchased shares) shall be established
by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the document evidencing such
repurchase right. The Plan Administrator may not impose a vesting schedule upon
any option grant or the shares of Common Stock subject to that option which is
more restrictive than twenty-five percent (25%) per year vesting with the
initial vesting to occur not later than one (1) year after the option grant
date. However, such limitation shall not be applicable to any option grants made
to individuals who are officers of the Corporation, non-employee Board members
or independent consultants.

         F.       First Refusal Right. Until such time as the Common Stock is
first registered under Section 12 of the 1934 Act, the Corporation shall have
the right of first refusal with respect

<PAGE>

to any proposed disposition by the Optionee (or any successor in interest) of
any shares of Common Stock issued under the Plan. Such right of first refusal
shall be exercisable in accordance with the terms established by the Plan
Administrator and set forth in the document evidencing such right.

         G.       Limited Transferability of Options. During the lifetime of the
Optionee, the option shall be exercisable only by the Optionee and shall not be
assignable or transferable other than be will or by the laws of descent and
distribution following the Optionee's death.

         H.       Withholding. The Corporation's obligation to deliver shares of
Common Stock upon the exercise of any options granted under the Plan shall be
subject to the satisfaction of all applicable Federal, state and local income
and employment tax withholding requirements.

II.      INCENTIVE OPTIONS

         The terms specified below shall be applicable to all Incentive Options.
Except as modified by the provisions of this Section II, all the provisions of
Articles One, Two and Four shall be applicable to Incentive Options. Options
which are specifically designated as Non-Statutory Options shall not be subject
to the terms of this Section II.

         A.       Eligibility. Incentive Options may only be granted to
Employees.

         B.       Exercise Price. The exercise price per share shall not be less
than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common
Stock on the option grant date.

         C.        Dollar Limitation. The aggregate Fair Market Value of the
shares of Common Stock (determined as of the respective date or dates of grant)
for which one or more options granted to any Employee under the Plan (or any
other option plan of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary) may for the
first time become exercisable as Incentive Options during any one (1) calendar
year shall not exceed the sum of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000). To the
extent the Employee holds two (2) or more such options which become exercisable
for the first time in the same calendar year, the foregoing limitation on the
exercisability of such options as Incentive Options shall be applied on the
basis of the order in which such options were granted.

         D.       10% Shareholder. If any Employee to whom an Incentive Option
is granted is a 10% Shareholder, then the option term shall not exceed five (5)
years measured from the option grant date.

III.     CORPORATE TRANSACTION

         A.       The shares subject to each option outstanding under the Plan
at the time of a Corporate Transaction shall automatically vest in full so that
each such option shall, immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate
Transaction, become fully exercisable for all the shares of Common Stock at the
time subject to that option and may be exercised for any or all of those shares
as fully-vested shares of Common Stock. However, the shares subject to an

<PAGE>

outstanding option shall not vest on such an accelerated basis if and to the
extent: (i) such option is assumed by the successor corporation (or parent
thereof) in the Corporate Transaction and any repurchase rights of the
Corporation with respect to the unvested option shares are concurrently assigned
to such successor corporation (or parent thereof) or (ii) such option is to be
replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation which
preserves the spread existing on the unvested option shares at the time of the
Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent payout in accordance with the
same vesting schedule applicable to those unvested option shares or (iii) the
acceleration of such option is subject to other limitations imposed by the Plan
Administrator at the time of the option grant.

     B.   All outstanding repurchase rights shall also terminate automatically,
and the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated rights shall
immediately vest in full, in the event of any Corporate Transaction, except to
the extent: (i) those repurchase rights are assigned to the successor
corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with such Corporate Transaction or
(ii) such accelerated vesting is precluded by other limitations imposed by the
Plan Administrator at the time the repurchase right is issued.

     C.   Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate Transaction,
all outstanding options shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, except to
the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or parent thereof).

     D.   Each option which is assumed in connection with a Corporate
Transaction shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate
Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have
been issuable to the Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction, had
the option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction.
Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to (i) the number and class of
securities available for issuance under the Plan following the consummation of
such Corporate Transaction and (ii) the exercise price payable per share under
each outstanding option, provided the aggregate exercise price payable for such
securities shall remain the same.

     E.   The Plan Administrator shall have the discretion, exercisable either
at the time the option is granted or at any time while the option remains
outstanding, to structure one or more options so that those options shall
automatically accelerate and vest in full (and any repurchase rights of the
Corporation with respect to the unvested shares subject to those options shall
immediately terminate) upon the occurrence of a Corporate Transaction, whether
or not those options are to be assumed in the Corporate Transaction.

     F.   The Plan Administrator shall also have full power and authority,
exercisable either at the time the option is granted or at any time while the
option remains outstanding, to structure such option so that the shares subject
to that option will automatically vest on an accelerated basis should the
Optionee's Service terminate by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a
designated period (not to exceed eighteen (18) months) following the effective
date of any Corporate Transaction in which the option is assumed and the
repurchase rights applicable to those shares do not otherwise terminate. Any
option so accelerated shall remain exercisable for the fully-vested option
shares until the expiration or sooner termination of the option term. In
addition, the Plan Administrator may provide that one or more of the

<PAGE>

Corporation's outstanding repurchase rights with respect to shares held by the
Optionee at the time of such Involuntary Termination shall immediately terminate
on an accelerated basis, and the shares subject to those terminated rights shall
accordingly vest at that time.

     G.   The portion of any Incentive Option accelerated in connection with a
Corporate Transaction shall remain exercisable as an Incentive Option only to
the extent the applicable One Hundred Thousand Dollar limitation is not
exceeded. To the extent such dollar limitation is exceeded, the accelerated
portion of such option shall be exercisable as a Non-Statutory Option under the
Federal tax laws.

     H.   The grant of options under the Plan shall in no way affect the right
of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its
capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or
sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.

IV.  CANCELLATION AND REGRANT OF OPTIONS

     The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to effect, at any time and
from time to time, with the consent of the affected option holders, the
cancellation of any or all outstanding options under the Plan and to grant in
substitution therefor new options covering the same or different number of
shares of Common Stock but with an exercise price per share based on the Fair
Market Value per share of Common Stock on the new option grant date.

                                  ARTICLE THREE

                             STOCK ISSUANCE PROGRAM

I.   STOCK ISSUANCE TERMS

     Shares of Common Stock may be issued under the Stock Issuance Program
through direct and immediate issuances without any intervening option grants.
Each such stock issuance shall be evidenced by a Stock Issuance Agreement which
complies with the terms specified below.

     A.   Purchase Price.

          1.   The purchase price per share shall be fixed by the Plan
Administrator but shall not be less than eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair
Market Value per share of Common Stock on the issue date. However, the purchase
price per share of Common Stock issued to a 10% Shareholder shall not be less
than one hundred and ten percent (110%) of such Fair Market Value.

          2.   Subject to the provisions of Section I of Article Four, shares of
Common Stock may be issued under the Stock Issuance Program for any of the
following items of consideration which the Plan Administrator may deem
appropriate in each individual instance:

               (i) cash or check made payable to the Corporation, or

<PAGE>

               (ii) past services rendered to the Corporation (or any Parent or
Subsidiary).

     B.   Vesting Provisions.

          1.   Shares of Common Stock issued under the Stock Issuance Program
may, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be fully and immediately
vested upon issuance or may vest in one or more installments over the
Participant's period of Service or upon attainment of specified performance
objectives. However, the Plan Administrator may not impose a vesting schedule
upon any stock issuance effected under the Stock Issuance Program which is more
restrictive than twenty-five percent (25%) per year vesting, with initial
vesting to occur not later than one (1) year after the issuance date. Such
limitation shall not apply to any Common Stock issuances made to the officers of
the Corporation, non-employee Board members or independent consultants.

          2.   Any new, substituted or additional securities or other property
(including money paid other than as a regular cash dividend) which the
Participant may have the right to receive with respect to the Participant's
unvested shares of Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend, stock split,
recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change
affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class without the Corporation's
receipt of consideration shall be issued subject to (i) the same vesting
requirements applicable to the Participant's unvested shares of Common Stock and
(ii) such escrow arrangements as the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate.

          3.   The Participant shall have full shareholder rights with respect
to any shares of Common Stock issued to the Participant under the Stock Issuance
Program, whether or not the Participant's interest in those shares is vested.
Accordingly, the Participant shall have the right to vote such shares and to
receive any regular cash dividends paid on such shares.

          4.   Should the Participant cease to remain in Service while holding
one or more unvested shares of Common Stock issued under the Stock Issuance
Program or should the performance objectives not be attained with respect to one
or more such unvested shares of Common Stock, then those shares shall be
immediately surrendered to the Corporation for cancellation, and the Participant
shall have no further shareholder rights with respect to those shares. To the
extent the surrendered shares were previously issued to the Participant for
consideration paid in cash or cash equivalent (including the Participant's
purchase-money indebtedness), the Corporation shall repay to the Participant the
cash consideration paid for the surrendered shares and shall cancel the unpaid
principal balance of any outstanding purchase-money note of the Participant
attributable to such surrendered shares.

          5.   The Plan Administrator may in its discretion waive the surrender
and cancellation of one or more unvested shares of Common Stock (or other assets
attributable thereto) which would otherwise occur upon the non-completion of the
vesting schedule applicable to those shares. Such waiver shall result in the
immediate vesting of the Participant's interest in the shares of Common Stock as
to which the waiver applies. Such waiver may be

<PAGE>

effected at any time, whether before or after the Participant's cessation of
Service or the attainment or non-attainment of the applicable performance
objectives.

     C.  First Refusal Rights. Until such time as the Common Stock is first
registered under Section 12 of the 1934 Act, the Corporation shall have the
right of first refusal with respect to any proposed disposition by the
Participant (or any successor in interest) of any shares of Common Stock issued
under the Stock Issuance Program. Such right of first refusal shall be
exercisable in accordance with the terms established by the Plan Administrator
and set forth in the document evidencing such right.

II.  CORPORATE TRANSACTION

     A.  Upon the occurrence of a Corporate Transaction, all outstanding
repurchase rights under the Stock Issuance Program shall terminate
automatically, and the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated rights
shall immediately vest in full, except to the extent: (i) those repurchase
rights are assigned to the successor corporation (or parent thereof) in
connection with such Corporate Transaction or (ii) such accelerated vesting is
precluded by other limitations imposed by the Plan Administrator at the time the
repurchase right is issued.

     B.  The Plan Administrator shall have the discretionary authority,
exercisable either at the time the unvested shares are issued or any time while
the Corporation's repurchase rights with respect to those shares remain
outstanding, to provide that those rights shall automatically terminate on an
accelerated basis, and the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated
rights shall immediately vest, in the event the Participant's Service should
subsequently terminate by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a
designated period (not to exceed eighteen (IS) months) following the effective
date of any Corporate Transaction in which those repurchase rights are assigned
to the successor corporation (or parent thereof).

III. SHARE ESCROW/LEGENDS

     Unvested shares may, in the Plan Administrator's discretion, be held in
escrow by the Corporation until the Participant's interest in such shares vests
or may be issued directly to the Participant with restrictive legends on the
certificates evidencing those unvested shares.


                                  ARTICLE FOUR

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

I.   FINANCING

     The Plan Administrator may permit any Optionee or Participant to pay the
option exercise price under the Option Grant Program or the purchase price for
shares issued under the Stock Issuance Program by delivering a full-recourse,
interest bearing promissory note payable in one or more installments and secured
by the purchased shares. The terms of any such promissory note (including the
interest rate and the terms of repayment) shall be established by

<PAGE>

the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion. In no event may the maximum
credit available to the Optionee or Participant exceed the sum of (i) the
aggregate option exercise price or purchase price payable for the purchased
shares (less the par value of those shares) plus (ii) any Federal, state and
local income and employment tax liability incurred by the Optionee or the
Participant in connection with the option exercise or share purchase.

II.  EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF PLAN

     A.  The Plan shall become effective when adopted by the Board, but no
option granted under the Plan may be exercised, and no shares shall be issued
under the Plan, until the Plan is approved by the Corporation's shareholders. If
such shareholder approval is not obtained within twelve (12) months after the
date of the Board's adoption of the Plan, then all options previously granted
under the Plan shall terminate and cease to be outstanding, and no further
options shall be granted and no shares shall be issued under the Plan. Subject
to such limitation, the Plan Administrator may grant options and issue shares
under the Plan at any time after the effective date of the Plan and before the
date fixed herein for termination of the Plan.

     B.  The Plan shall terminate upon the earliest of (i) the expiration of the
ten (10)-year period measured from the date the Plan is adopted by the Board,
(ii) the date on which all shares available for issuance under the Plan shall
have been issued as vested shares or (iii) the termination of all outstanding
options in connection with a Corporate Transaction. All options and unvested
stock issuances outstanding at the time of a clause (i) termination event shall
continue to have full force and effect in accordance with the provisions of the
documents evidencing those options or issuances.

III. AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN

     A.  The Board shall have complete and exclusive power and authority to
amend or modify the Plan in any or all respects. However, no such amendment or
modification shall adversely affect the rights and obligations with respect to
options or unvested stock issuances at the time outstanding under the Plan
unless the Optionee or the Participant consents to such amendment or
modification. In addition, certain amendments may require shareholder approval
pursuant to applicable laws and regulations.

     B.  Options may be granted under the Option Grant Program and shares may be
issued under the Stock Issuance Program which are in each instance in excess of
the number of shares of Common Stock then available for issuance under the Plan,
provided any excess shares actually issued under those programs shall be held in
escrow until there is obtained shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently
increasing the number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the
Plan. If such shareholder approval is not obtained within twelve (12) months
after the date the first such excess grants or issuances are made, then (i) any
unexercised options granted on the basis of such excess shares shall terminate
and cease to be outstanding and (ii) the Corporation shall promptly refund to
the Optionees and the Participants the exercise or purchase price paid for any
excess shares issued under the Plan and held in escrow, together with interest
(at the applicable Short Term Federal Rate) for the period the

<PAGE>

shares were held in escrow, and such shares shall thereupon be automatically
cancelled and cease to be outstanding.

IV.  USE OF PROCEEDS

     Any cash proceeds received by the Corporation from the sale of shares of
Common Stock under the Plan shall be used for general corporate purposes.

V.   WITHHOLDING

     The Corporation's obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock upon the
exercise of any options or upon the issuance or vesting of any shares issued
under the Plan shall be subject to the satisfaction of all applicable Federal,
state and local income and employment tax withholding requirements.

VI.  REGULATORY APPROVALS

     The implementation of the Plan, the granting of any options under the Plan
and the issuance of any shares of Common Stock (i) upon the exercise of any
option or (ii) under the Stock Issuance Program shall be subject to the
Corporation's procurement of all approvals and permits required by regulatory
authorities having jurisdiction over the Plan, the options granted under it and
the shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to it.

VII. NO EMPLOYMENT OR SERVICE RIGHTS

     Nothing in the Plan shall confer upon the Optionee or the Participant any
right to continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere
with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation (or any
Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining such person) or of the Optionee or
the Participant, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to
terminate such person's Service at any time for any reason, with or without
cause.

VIII. FINANCIAL REPORTS

     The Corporation shall deliver a balance sheet and an income statement at
least annually to each individual holding an outstanding option under the Plan,
unless such individual is a key Employee whose duties in connection with the
Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) assure such individual access to
equivalent information.

<PAGE>

                                    APPENDIX

     The following definitions shall be in effect under the Plan:

     A.   Board shall mean the Corporation's Board of Directors.

     B.   Code shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

     C.   Committee shall mean a committee of two (2) or more Board members
appointed by the Board to exercise one or more administrative functions under
the Plan.

     D.   Common Stock shall mean the Corporation's common stock.

     E.   Corporate Transaction shall mean either of the following
shareholder-approved transactions to which the Corporation is a party:

          (i)  a merger or consolidation in which securities possessing more
     than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the
     Corporation's outstanding securities are transferred to a person or persons
     different from the persons holding those securities immediately prior to
     such transaction, or

          (ii) the sale, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially
     all of the Corporation's assets incomplete liquidation or dissolution of
     the Corporation.

     F.   Corporation shall mean Nitres, Inc., a California corporation, and any
successor corporation to all or substantially all of the assets or voting stock
of Nitres, Inc. which shall by appropriate action adopt the Plan.

     G.   Disability shall mean the inability of the Optionee or the Participant
to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically
determinable physical or mental impairment and shall be determined by the Plan
Administrator on the basis of such medical evidence as the Plan Administrator
deems warranted under the circumstances.

     H.   Employee shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the
Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), subject to the control and direction
of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and
method of performance.

     I.   Exercise Date shall mean the date on which the Corporation shall have
received written notice of the option exercise.

     J.   Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on any relevant date shall
be determined in accordance with the following provisions:

          (i)  If the Common Stock is at the time traded on the Nasdaq National
     Market, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per
     share of Common Stock

<PAGE>

     on the date in question, as such price is reported by the National
     Association of Securities Dealers on the Nasdaq National Market. If there
     is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question,
     then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last
     preceding date for which such quotation exists.

          (ii)  If the Common Stock is at the time listed on any Stock Exchange,
     then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price per share of
     Common Stock on the date in question on the Stock Exchange determined by
     the Plan Administrator to be the primary market for the Common Stock, as
     such price is officially quoted in the composite tape of transactions on
     such exchange. If there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on
     the date in question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing
     selling price on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.

          (iii) If the Common Stock is at the time neither listed on any Stock
     Exchange nor traded on the Nasdaq National Market, then the Fair Market
     Value shall be determined by the Plan Administrator after taking into
     account such factors as the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate.

     K.   Incentive Option shall mean an option which satisfies the requirements
of Code Section 422.

     L.   Involuntary Termination shall mean the termination of the Service of
any individual which occurs by reason of:

          (i)   such individual's involuntary dismissal or discharge by the
     Corporation for reasons other than Misconduct, or

          (ii)  such individual's voluntary resignation following (A) a change
     in his or her position with the Corporation which materially reduces his or
     her duties and responsibilities or the level of management to which he or
     she reports, (B) a reduction in his or her level of compensation (including
     base salary, fringe benefits and target bonuses under any
     corporate-performance based bonus or incentive programs) by more than
     fifteen percent (15%) or (C) a relocation of such individual's place of
     employment by more than fifty (50) miles, provided and only if such change,
     reduction or relocation is effected without the individual's consent.

     M.   Misconduct shall mean the commission of any act of fraud, embezzlement
or dishonesty by the Optionee or Participant, any unauthorized use or disclosure
by such person of confidential information or trade secrets of the Corporation
(or any Parent or Subsidiary), or any other intentional misconduct by such
person adversely affecting the business or affairs of the Corporation (or any
Parent or Subsidiary) in a material manner. The foregoing definition shall not
be deemed to be inclusive of all the acts or omissions which the Corporation (or
any Parent or Subsidiary) may consider as grounds for the dismissal or discharge
of any Optionee, Participant or other person in the Service of the Corporation
(or any Parent or Subsidiary).

<PAGE>

     N.   1934 Act shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

     O.   Non-Statutory Option shall mean an option not intended to satisfy the
requirements of Code Section 422.

     P.   Option Grant Program shall mean the option grant program in effect
under the Plan.

     Q.   Optionee shall mean any person to whom an option is granted under the
Plan.

     R.   Parent shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in an
unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each
corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time
of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total
combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations
in such chain.

     S.   Participant shall mean any person who is issued shares of Common Stock
under the Stock Issuance Program.

     T.   Plan shall mean the Corporation's 1999 Stock Option/Stock Issuance
Plan, as set forth in this document.

     U.   Plan Administrator shall mean either the Board or the Committee acting
in its capacity as administrator of the Plan.

     V.   Service shall mean the provision of services to the Corporation (or
any Parent or Subsidiary) by a person in the capacity of an Employee, a
non-employee member of the board of directors or a consultant or independent
advisor, except to the extent otherwise specifically provided in the documents
evidencing theoption grant.

     W.   Stock Exchange shall mean either the American Stock Exchange or the
New York Stock Exchange.

     X.   Stock Issuance Agreement shall mean the agreement entered into by the
Corporation and the Participant at the time of issuance of shares of Common
Stock under the Stock Issuance Program.

     Y.   Stock Issuance Program shall mean the stock issuance program in effect
under the Plan.

     Z.   Subsidiary shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation) in
an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Corporation, provided
each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the unbroken chain owns,
at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more
of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other
corporations in such chain.

<PAGE>

     AA.  10% Shareholder shall mean the owner of stock (as determined under
Code Section  424(d)) possessing more than ten  percent (10%) of the total
combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation (or any Parent
or Subsidiary).

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.4
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>dex104.txt
<DESCRIPTION>NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION PLAN
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                    Exhibit 10.4

                                   CREE, INC.

                       2001 NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION PLAN

                           (as amended July 31, 2001)


                         ARTICLE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.1     The Plan is designed to provide for grants of Nonqualified Stock Options
        to Eligible Participants. Directors and officers of Cree, Inc. are not
        eligible for Awards under the Plan.

1.2     Awards under the Plan may be made to Participants only in the form of
        Nonqualified Stock Options at a purchase price per share that is not
        less than the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the Option Grant Date.
        Awards may otherwise be made, to the extent not inconsistent with the
        Plan, at such times, in such amounts, under such terms and to such
        Eligible Participants as is determined from time to time by the
        Committee administering the Plan.

1.3     The Plan was adopted effective April 30, 2001.


                            ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS

        Except where the context otherwise indicates, the following definitions
apply:

2.1     "Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as now in effect or as
        hereafter amended. All citations to sections of the Act or rules
        thereunder are to such sections or rules as they may from time to time
        be amended or renumbered.

2.2     "Agreement" means the written agreement evidencing an Award or Awards
        granted to a Participant under the Plan and includes the notice of grant
        issued by the Company to the Participant with respect to the Award (the
        "Notice of Grant") if the agreement applicable to the Award so provides.

2.3     "Award" means a Stock Option granted to a Participant in accordance with
        the provisions of the Plan.

2.4     "Board" means the Board of Directors of Cree, Inc.

2.5     "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now in effect or as
        hereafter amended. All citations to sections of the Code are to such
        sections as they may from time to time be amended or renumbered.

2.6     "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board or such other
        committee consisting of two or more members of the Board as may be
        appointed by the Board to administer this Plan pursuant to Article III.

2.7     "Company" means Cree, Inc., a North Carolina corporation, and its
        successors and assigns. Except where the context otherwise indicates,
        the term "Company" shall include any corporation which is a member of a
        controlled group of corporations (as defined in Section 414(b) of the
        Code, as modified by Section 415(h) of the Code) that includes the
        Company; any trade or

<PAGE>

        business (whether or not incorporated) that is under common control (as
        defined in Section 414(c) of the Code, as modified by Section 415(h) of
        the Code) with the Company; any organization (whether or not
        incorporated) that is a member of an affiliated service group (as
        defined in Section 414(m) of the Code) which includes the Company; and
        any other entity required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to
        regulations under Section 414(o) of the Code. With respect to all
        actions relating to the Plan, including, but not limited to, the
        establishment, amendment, termination, operation and administration of
        the Plan, Cree, Inc. shall be authorized to act on behalf of all other
        entities included within the definition of "Company."

2.8     "Disability" means (i) with respect to a Participant who is eligible to
        participate in the Company's program of long-term disability insurance,
        a condition with respect to which the Participant is entitled to
        commence benefits under such program of long-term disability insurance
        and which results in Termination of Employment of the Participant, and
        (ii) with respect to any Participant (including a Participant who is
        eligible to participate in the Company's program of long-term disability
        insurance), a disability as determined under procedures established by
        the Committee or in any Award.

2.9     "Eligible Participant" means any employee of the Company, as shall be
        determined by the Committee; provided, however, that no officers or
        directors of the Company shall be Eligible Participants.

2.10    "Fair Market Value" means the last sale price of the Stock in the
        regular trading session on The Nasdaq Stock Market on the date of
        reference (or, if there is no regular trading session that day, the
        nearest preceding day on which there was a regular trading session). The
        Committee may in its discretion establish an alternative method of
        determining Fair Market Value.

2.11    "Nonqualified Stock Option" means a Stock Option that is not an
        incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Code. All Awards under
        this Plan shall be Nonqualified Stock Options.

2.12    "Option Grant Date" means, as to any Stock Option, the later of:

        (a)   the date on which the Committee approves the grant of the Stock
              Option to the Participant;

        (b)   such other date (later than the date described in (a) above) as
              the Committee may designate.

2.13    "Participant" means an Eligible Participant to whom an Award has been
        granted and who has entered into an Agreement evidencing the Award.

2.14    "Plan" means the Cree, Inc. 2001 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan as set
        forth herein and as further amended or amended and restated from time to
        time.

2.15    "Stock" means shares of the Common Stock of Cree, Inc., par value
        $0.00125 per share, as may be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of
        Section 3.10.

2.16    "Stock Option" means an Award under this Plan of an option to purchase
        Stock.

                                       2

<PAGE>

2.17    "Termination of Employment" means the discontinuance of employment of a
        Participant with the Company for any reason, whether voluntary or
        involuntary. The determination of whether a Participant has discontinued
        employment shall be made by the Committee in its discretion.


                          ARTICLE III - ADMINISTRATION

3.1     The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee, in its
        discretion, may delegate to one or more of its members such of its
        powers as it deems appropriate. The Committee also may limit the power
        of any member to the extent necessary to comply with any law. Members of
        the Committee shall be appointed originally, and as vacancies occur, by
        the Board, to serve at the pleasure of the Board. The Board may serve as
        the Committee if all Board members are otherwise eligible to serve on
        the Committee.

3.2     The Committee shall meet at such times and places as it determines. A
        majority of its members shall constitute a quorum, and the decision of a
        majority of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present
        shall constitute the decision of the Committee. A memorandum or other
        document signed by all of its members shall constitute the decision of
        the Committee without the necessity, in such event, for holding an
        actual meeting.

3.3     The Committee shall have the exclusive right to interpret, construe and
        administer the Plan, to determine the persons who are eligible to
        receive Awards, and to act in all matters pertaining to the granting of
        Awards and the contents of the Agreements evidencing the Awards,
        including without limitation, the determination of the number of shares
        of Stock subject to an Award, and the form, terms, conditions and
        duration of each Award, and any amendment thereof, consistent with the
        provisions of the Plan. All acts, determinations and decisions of the
        Committee made or taken pursuant to grants of authority under the Plan
        or with respect to any questions arising in connection with the
        administration and interpretation of the Plan, including the
        severability of any and all of the provisions thereof, shall be
        conclusive, final and binding upon all Participants, Eligible
        Participants and their beneficiaries.

3.4     The Committee may adopt such rules, regulations and procedures of
        general application for the administration of the Plan as it deems
        appropriate.

3.5     The number of shares of Stock which are available for Award under the
        Plan shall be Three Million (3,000,000) shares. Such shares of Stock
        shall be made available from authorized and unissued shares. If, for any
        reason, any shares of Stock subject to purchase under the Plan are not
        purchased, or are reacquired by the Company, for reasons including, but
        not limited to, forfeiture, termination, expiration or cancellation of a
        Stock Option, such shares of Stock shall not be charged against the
        aggregate number of shares of Stock available for Awards under the Plan
        and shall again be available for Award under the Plan.

3.6     Each Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written
        Agreement. Each Agreement shall be subject to and incorporate, by
        reference or otherwise, the applicable terms and conditions of the Plan,
        and any other terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as
        may be directed by the Committee.

3.7     The Company shall not be required to issue any shares of Stock or
        deliver certificates therefor prior to:

                                       3

<PAGE>

        (a)   the listing of such shares on any stock exchange on which the
              Stock may then be listed; and

        (b)   the completion of any registration or qualification of such shares
              of Stock under any federal or state law, or any ruling or
              regulation of any government body which the Company shall, in its
              discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable.

3.8     All certificates for shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall also
        be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the
        Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other
        requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock
        exchange or national market system upon which the Stock is then listed
        and any applicable federal or state laws, and the Committee may cause a
        legend or legends to be placed on any such certificates to make
        appropriate reference to such restrictions. In making such
        determination, the Committee may rely upon an opinion of counsel for the
        Company.

3.9     Except as provided otherwise in the Plan or in an Agreement, no
        Participant awarded a Stock Option shall have any right as a shareholder
        with respect to any shares of Stock covered by his or her Stock Option
        prior to the date of issuance to him or her of a certificate or
        certificates for such shares of Stock.

3.10    If any reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock
        split-up, stock dividend, or consolidation of shares of Stock, merger or
        consolidation of the Company or sale or other disposition by the Company
        of all or a portion of its assets, any other change in the Company's
        corporate structure, or any distribution to shareholders other than a
        cash dividend results in the outstanding shares of Stock, or any
        securities exchanged therefor or received in their place, being
        exchanged for a different number or class of shares of Stock or other
        securities of the Company, or for shares of Stock or other securities of
        any other corporation; or new, different or additional shares or other
        securities of the Company or of any other corporation being received by
        the holders of outstanding shares of Stock, then equitable adjustments
        shall be made by the Committee in:

        (a)   the limitation on the aggregate number of shares of Stock that may
              be awarded as set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan;

        (b)   the number and class of shares of Stock that may be purchased upon
              exercise of outstanding Stock Options;

        (c)   the purchase price to be paid per share of Stock under outstanding
              Stock Options; and

        (d)   the terms, conditions or restrictions of any Award and the
              Agreement evidencing such Award.

3.11    The Committee may require each person purchasing shares of Stock
        pursuant to a Stock Option or other Award under the Plan to represent to
        and agree with the Company in writing that he or she is acquiring the
        shares of Stock without a view to distribution thereof and/or that he or
        she has met such other requirements as the Committee determines may be
        applicable to such purchase. The certificates for such shares of Stock
        may include any legend that the Committee deems appropriate to reflect
        any restrictions on transfer.

                                       4

<PAGE>

3.12    The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the terms and
        conditions of Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events
        affecting the Company or its financial statements or changes in
        applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles. The Committee may
        correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency
        in the Plan or any Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall
        deem desirable to carry it into effect.

3.13    The Committee shall have full power and authority to determine whether,
        to what extent and under what circumstances, any Award, or the vesting
        schedule or the exercise thereof, shall be canceled, suspended or
        rescinded if the Participant (a) without the consent of the Committee,
        while employed by the Company or after termination of such employment,
        becomes associated with, employed by, renders services to, or owns any
        interest in (other than any insubstantial interest, as determined by the
        Committee) any business that is in competition with the Company as
        determined by the Committee in its discretion; (b) is terminated for
        cause as determined by the Committee in its discretion; (c) takes an
        extended unpaid leave of absence as determined by the Committee in its
        discretion, or (d) otherwise engages in activity detrimental to the
        Company as determined by the Committee in its discretion.


                     ARTICLE IV - NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS

4.1     One or more Stock Options may be granted as Nonqualified Stock Options
        to persons who are Eligible Participants on the Option Grant Date of
        such Awards, granting such persons the right to purchase shares of Stock
        at such time or times determined by the Committee, following the
        Effective Date, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this
        Article IV.

4.2     The purchase price per share of Stock under each Nonqualified Stock
        Option shall be established in the Agreement but may not be less than
        100% of the Fair Market Value on the Option Grant Date.

4.3     Unless the Committee, in its discretion at the time of the grant of the
        Stock Option, provides for a longer or shorter period and such longer or
        shorter period is specified in the Notice of Grant, or the Committee
        extends the termination date as provided in Section 3.12 or Section 6.5
        of the Plan, the Stock Options granted under the Plan shall terminate
        and cease to be exercisable at 11:59 p.m. local time Durham, North
        Carolina, on the seventh (7/th/) anniversary of the Option Grant Date if
        not sooner exercised or terminated.

4.4     Nonqualified Stock Options may be exercised in full or in part from time
        to time within such periods as may be specified in the applicable
        Agreements; provided that, in any event, Nonqualified Stock Options
        shall lapse and cease to be exercisable upon a Termination of Employment
        or within such period following a Termination of Employment as shall
        have been specified in the Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, which
        period shall not exceed three months unless:

        (a)   employment shall have terminated as a result of death or
              Disability, in which event such period shall not exceed one year
              after the date of death or Disability;

        (b)   death shall have occurred following a Termination of Employment
              and while the Nonqualified Stock Option was still exercisable, in
              which event such period shall not exceed one year after the date
              of death; or

                                       5

<PAGE>

        (c)   the Committee, in its discretion at the time of the option grant,
              provides for a longer period and such longer period is specified
              in the Agreement;

        provided, further, that such period following a Termination of
        Employment shall in no event extend the original exercise period of the
        Nonqualified Stock Option.

4.5     Nonqualified Stock Option Agreements may include any other terms and
        conditions not inconsis-tent with this Article IV or Article V below, as
        determined by the Committee.


                     ARTICLE V - INCIDENTS OF STOCK OPTIONS

5.1     Each Stock Option shall be granted subject to such terms and conditions,
        if any, not inconsistent with this Plan, as shall be determined by the
        Committee, including any provisions as to continued employment as
        consideration for the grant or exercise of such Stock Option and any
        provisions that may be advisable to comply with applicable laws,
        regulations or rulings of any governmental authority.

5.2     Except as provided below, a Stock Option shall be exercisable during the
        lifetime of the Participant only by him or his guardian or legal
        representative and shall not be transferable by the Participant other
        than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. However, the
        Committee may, in its sole discretion, either pursuant to an Agreement
        or otherwise, permit a Participant to transfer a Nonqualified Stock
        Option by gift or other donative transfer without payment of
        consideration, conditioned upon and subject to compliance with all
        applicable law (including, but not limited to, securities law).

5.3     Shares of Stock purchased upon exercise of a Stock Option shall be paid
        for in such amounts, at such times and upon such terms as shall be
        determined by the Committee, subject to limitations set forth in the
        Stock Option Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee
        may establish payment terms for the exercise of Stock Options which
        permit the Participant to deliver shares of Stock, or other evidence of
        ownership of Stock satisfactory to the Company, with a Fair Market Value
        equal to the Stock Option price as payment.

5.4     The Committee may at any time offer to buy out for a payment in cash or
        Stock an Option previously granted, based on such terms and conditions
        as the Committee shall establish and communicate to the Participant at
        the time that such offer is made.

5.5     If a Participant is required to pay to the Company an amount with
        respect to income and employment tax withholding obligations in
        connection with exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option, the Committee,
        in its discretion and subject to such rules as it may adopt, may permit
        the Participant to satisfy the obligation, in whole or in part, by
        making an irrevocable election that a portion of the total Fair Market
        Value of the shares of Stock subject to the Nonqualified Stock Option be
        paid in the form of cash in lieu of the issuance of Stock and that such
        cash payment be applied to the satisfaction of the withholding
        obligations. The amount to be withheld shall not exceed

                                       6

<PAGE>

        the statutory minimum federal and state income and employment tax
        liability arising from the Stock Option exercise transaction.


                         ARTICLE VI - CHANGE IN CONTROL

6.1     A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred upon any of the
        following events:

        (a)   Any "Person" as defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Act, including a
              "group" (as that term is used in Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of
              the Act), but excluding the Company (as defined in Section 2.7 of
              this Plan) and any employee benefit plan sponsored or maintained
              by the Company (including any trustee of such plan acting as
              trustee), together with its "affiliates" and "associates" (as
              those terms are defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Act) becomes the
              "Beneficial Owner" (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the
              Act) of 20% or more of the then-outstanding shares of Stock or the
              combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the
              Company entitled to vote generally in the election of its
              directors. For purposes of calculating the number of shares or
              voting power held by such Person and its affiliates and associates
              under this Section 6.1(a), there shall be excluded any securities
              acquired by such Person or its affiliates or associates directly
              from the Company.

        (b)   A sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the
              Company's assets is consummated, other than such a sale or
              disposition that would not have constituted a Change of Control
              under Section 6.1(d) below had it been structured as a merger or
              consolidation.

        (c)   The shareholders of the Company approve a definitive agreement or
              plan to liquidate the Company.

        (d)   A merger or consolidation of the Company with and into another
              entity is consummated, unless immediately following such
              transaction (1) more than 50% of the members of the governing body
              of the surviving entity are Incumbent Directors (as defined in
              Section 6.1(e) below) at the time of execution of the initial
              agreement providing for such transaction, (2) no "Person" (as
              defined in Section 6.1(a) above), together with its "affiliates"
              and "associates" (as defined in Section 6.1(a) above), is the
              "Beneficial Owner" (as defined in Section 6.1 (a) above), directly
              or indirectly, of 20% or more of the then-outstanding equity
              interests of the surviving entity or the combined voting power of
              the then-outstanding equity interests of the surviving entity
              entitled to vote generally in the election of members of its
              governing body, and (3) more than 50% of the then-outstanding
              equity interests of the surviving entity and the combined voting
              power of the then-outstanding equity interests of the surviving
              entity entitled to vote generally in the election of members of
              its governing body is "Beneficially Owned," directly or
              indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and
              entities who were the "Beneficial Owners" of the shares of Stock
              immediately prior to such transaction in substantially the same
              proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such
              transaction.

                                       7

<PAGE>

        (e)   During any period of 24 consecutive months during the existence of
              the Plan, the individuals who, at the beginning of such period,
              constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any
              reason other than death to constitute at least a majority thereof;
              provided, however, that a director who was not a director at the
              beginning of such 24-month period shall be deemed to have
              satisfied such 24-month requirement, and be an Incumbent Director,
              if such director was elected by, or on the recommendation of or
              with the approval of, at least two-thirds of the directors who
              then qualified as Incumbent Directors either actually, because
              they were directors at the beginning of such 24-month period, or
              by prior operation of this Section 6.1 (e), but excluding for this
              purpose any such individual whose initial assumption of office is
              in connection with an actual or threatened election context
              subject to Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Act
              or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents
              by or on behalf of a "Person" (as defined in Section 6.1(a) above)
              other than the Board.

6.2     The Option shall become fully vested and exercisable, to the extent not
        already fully vested and exercisable, immediately prior to any Change in
        Control, provided Participant is employed by the Company on the date of
        the Change in Control, except that the Option shall not become
        exercisable if and to the extent it is cashed out upon the Change in
        Control pursuant to the terms of the Plan and shall not vest or become
        exercisable to the extent it is assumed by one of the surviving entities
        of the transaction.

6.3     In the event of a Change in Control, the Committee may in its sole
        discretion and consistent with the requirements of applicable law decide
        to cash-out the value of all outstanding Stock Options, in each case to
        the extent vested pursuant to Sections 6.2 above or otherwise, on the
        basis of the "Change in Control Price" (as defined in Section 6.4) less
        the exercise price under such Award (if any) as of the date such Change
        in Control is determined to have occurred or such other date prior to
        the Change in Control as the Committee may determine.

6.4     For purposes of Section 6.3, "Change in Control Price" means the highest
        price per share of Stock paid in any transaction reported on the
        exchange on which the Stock is then traded or on The Nasdaq Stock
        Market, as the case may be, or paid or offered in any bona fide
        transaction related to a Change in Control, at any time during the
        120-day period immediately preceding the occurrence of the Change in
        Control, as determined by the Committee.

6.5     The Committee shall be authorized to take such actions that are not
        inconsistent with Sections 6.2, 6.3 and 6.4 above as the Committee
        determines to be necessary or advisable, and fair and equitable, to
        Participants with respect to Awards in the event of a Change in Control.
        Such actions may include, but shall not be limited to, establishing,
        amending or waiving the forms, terms, conditions and duration of Awards
        and the applicable Agreements so as to provide for earlier, later,
        extended or additional times for exercise or payment, differing methods
        for calculating payments and alternate forms and amounts of payment. The
        Committee may take such actions pursuant to this Section 6.5 by adopting
        rules and regulations of general applicability to all Participants or to
        certain categories of Participants, by including, amending or waiving
        terms and conditions in an Award and the Agreement, or by taking action
        with respect to individual Participants.

                                       8

<PAGE>

                     ARTICLE VII - AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

7.1     The Board, upon recommendation of the Committee, or otherwise, at any
        time and from time to time may amend or terminate the Plan.

7.2     No amendment to or discontinuance of this Plan or any provision thereof
        by the Board or the shareholders of the Company shall, without the
        written consent of the Participant, adversely affect, as shall be
        determined by the Committee, any Award previously granted to such
        Participant under this Plan; provided, however, the Committee shall
        retain the right and power to:

        (a)   annul any Award if the Participant is terminated for cause as
              determined by the Committee; and

        (b)   provide for the forfeiture of shares of Stock or other gain under
              an Award for competing against the Company as determined by the
              Committee or for engaging in such other activities detrimental to
              the Company as may be specified in the Agreement evidencing the
              Award.


                     ARTICLE VIII - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

8.1     Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted hereunder shall confer upon any
        Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company, or to
        serve as a director thereof, or interfere in any way with the right of
        the Company to terminate his or her employment at any time. Unless
        specifically provided otherwise, no Award granted under the Plan shall
        be deemed salary or compensation for the purpose of computing benefits
        under any employee benefit plan or other arrangement of the Company for
        the benefit of its employees unless the Company shall determine
        otherwise. No Participant shall have any claim to an Award until it is
        actually granted under the Plan. To the extent that any person acquires
        a right to receive payments from the Company under the Plan, such right
        shall, except as otherwise provided by the Committee, be no greater than
        the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. All payments
        to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the
        company, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no
        segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts,
        except as otherwise provided by the Committee.

8.2     The Company may make such provisions and take such steps as it may deem
        necessary or appropriate for the withholding of any taxes which the
        Company is required by any law or regulation of any governmental
        authority, whether federal, state or local, domestic or foreign, to
        withhold in connection with any Stock Option or the exercise thereof,
        including, but not limited to, the withholding of payment of all or any
        portion of such Award or another Award under this Plan until the
        Participant reimburses the Company for the amount the Company is
        required to withhold with respect to such taxes, or canceling any
        portion of such Award or another Award under this Plan in an amount
        sufficient to reimburse itself for the amount it is required to so
        withhold, or selling any property contingently credited by the Company
        for the purpose of paying such Award or another Award under this Plan,
        in order to withhold or reimburse itself for the amount it is required
        to so withhold.

8.3     The Plan and the grant of Awards shall be subject to all applicable
        federal and state laws, rules, and regulations and to such approvals by
        any United States government or regulatory agency as may be required.

                                       9

<PAGE>

8.4     The terms of the Plan shall be binding upon the Company, and its
        successors and assigns.

8.5     No Stock Option shall be transferable except as provided for herein. If
        a Participant attempts to transfer a Stock Option in violation hereof,
        the Committee shall have the authority to terminate the Stock Option.

8.6     This Plan and all actions taken hereunder shall be governed by the laws
        of the State of North Carolina.

8.7     If any provision of this Plan or an Agreement is or becomes or is deemed
        invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or would
        disqualify the Plan or any Agreement under any law deemed applicable by
        the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to
        conform to applicable laws or if it cannot be construed or deemed
        amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially
        altering the intent of the Plan or the Agreement, it shall be stricken
        and the remainder of the Plan or the Agreement shall remain in full
        force and effect.

8.8     In the event of inconsistency between the Plan, the Agreement and any
        other documents relating to the Plan or Stock Options awarded
        thereunder, the following order of precedence shall apply: (i) the Plan,
        (ii) any Plan policy or interpretation adopted by the Committee, (iii)
        the Notice of Grant, (iv) the Agreement (other than the Notice of
        Grant), and (v) any other documents, including but not limited to the
        Plan prospectus.


                                   CERTIFICATE

        I, Adam H. Broome, Secretary of Cree, Inc., having in my custody and
possession the corporate records of said corporation, do hereby certify that the
foregoing is a true and correct copy of the Cree, Inc. 2001 Nonqualified Stock
Option Plan as adopted by the Board of Directors on April 30, 2001 and amended
on July 31, 2001.

        Witness my hand and seal this ______ day of ___________, 2001.



                                                     ___________________________
                                                     Adam H. Broome

                                       10

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.5
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>dex105.txt
<DESCRIPTION>2001 STOCK OPTION BONUS PLAN
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                    Exhibit 10.5

                                   CREE, INC.

                            FISCAL 2001 STOCK OPTION
                                   BONUS PLAN


                         ARTICLE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.1     The Plan is designed to provide for grants of Nonqualified Stock Options
        to Eligible Participants upon the achievement by the Company of earnings
        per share targets for each quarter of the fiscal year ending June 24,
        2001. Directors and officers of the Company are not eligible for Awards
        under the Plan.

1.2     Awards under the Plan may be made to Participants only in the form of
        Nonqualified Stock Options at a purchase price per share that is not
        less than the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the Option Grant Date.
        Awards may otherwise be made, to the extent not inconsistent with the
        Plan, at such times, in such amounts, under such terms and to such
        Eligible Participants as is determined from time to time by the
        Committee administering the Plan.

1.3     The Plan was adopted effective October 19, 2000.


                            ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS

        Except where the context otherwise indicates, the following definitions
apply:

2.1     "Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as now in effect or as
        hereafter amended. All citations to sections of the Act or rules
        thereunder are to such sections or rules as they may from time to time
        be amended or renumbered.

2.2     "Agreement" means the written agreement evidencing an Award or Awards
        granted to a Participant under the Plan and includes the notice of grant
        issued by the Company to the Participant with respect to the Award if
        the agreement applicable to the Award so provides.

2.3     "Award" means a Stock Option granted to a Participant in accordance with
        the provisions of the Plan.

2.4     "Board" means the Board of Directors of Cree, Inc.

2.5     "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now in effect or as
        hereafter amended. All citations to sections of the Code are to such
        sections as they may from time to time be amended or renumbered.

2.6     "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board or such other
        committee consisting of two or more members of the Board as may be
        appointed by the Board to administer this Plan pursuant to Article III.

2.7     "Company" means Cree, Inc., a North Carolina corporation, and its
        successors and assigns. The term "Company" shall include any corporation
        which is a member of a controlled group of corporations (as defined in
        Section 414(b) of the Code, as modified by Section 415 (h) of the

<PAGE>

        Code) which includes the Company; any trade or business (whether or not
        incorporated) which is under common control (as defined in Section
        414(c) of the Code, as modified by Section 415(h) of the Code) with the
        Company; any organization (whether or not incorporated) which is a
        member of an affiliated service group (as defined in Section 414(m) of
        the Code) which includes the Company; and any other entity required to
        be aggregated with the Company pursuant to regulations under Section
        414(o) of the Code. With respect to all actions relating to the Plan,
        including, but not limited to, the establishment, amendment,
        termination, operation and administration of the Plan, Cree, Inc. shall
        be authorized to act on behalf of all other entities included within the
        definition of "Company."

2.8     "Disability" means (i) with respect to a Participant who is eligible to
        participate in the Company's program of long-term disability insurance,
        a condition with respect to which the Participant is entitled to
        commence benefits under such program of long-term disability insurance,
        and (ii) with respect to any Participant (including a Participant who is
        eligible to participate in the Company's program of long-term disability
        insurance), a disability as determined under procedures established by
        the Committee or in any Award.

2.9     "Eligible Participant" means any employee of the Company, as shall be
        determined by the Committee; provided, however, that no officers or
        directors of the Company shall be Eligible Participants.

2.10    "Fair Market Value" means the last sale price of the Stock in the
        regular trading session on The Nasdaq Stock Market on the date of
        reference (or, if there is no regular trading session that day, the
        nearest preceding day on which there was a regular trading session);
        provided, however, that for purposes of Awards granted on the effective
        date of this Plan, the Fair Market Value shall be the last sale price of
        the Stock in the regular trading session on The Nasdaq Stock Market on
        the day prior to the effective date of this Plan. The Committee may in
        its discretion establish an alternative method of determining Fair
        Market Value.

2.11    "Nonqualified Stock Option" means a Stock Option which is not an
        incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Code. All Awards under
        this Plan shall be Nonqualified Stock Options.

2.12    "Option Grant Date" means, as to any Stock Option, the latest of:

        (a)   the date on which the Committee approves the grant of the Stock
              Option to the Participant;

        (b)   such other date (later than the date described in (a) above) as
              the Committee may designate.

2.13    "Participant" means an Eligible Participant to whom an Award has been
        granted and who has entered into an Agreement evidencing the Award.

2.14    "Plan" means the Cree, Inc. Fiscal 2001 Stock Option Bonus Plan as set
        forth herein and as further amended or amended and restated from time to
        time.

2.15    "Stock" means shares of the Common Stock of Cree, Inc., par value
        $0.0025 per share, as may be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of
        Section 3.10.

                                                                     Page 2 of 8

<PAGE>

2.16    "Stock Option" means an Award under this Plan of an option to purchase
        Stock.

2.17    "Termination of Employment" means the discontinuance of employment of a
        Participant with the Company for any reason, whether voluntary or
        involuntary. The determination of whether a Participant has discontinued
        employment shall be made by the Committee in its discretion.


                          ARTICLE III - ADMINISTRATION

3.1     The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee, in its
        discretion, may delegate to one or more of its members such of its
        powers as it deems appropriate. The Committee also may limit the power
        of any member to the extent necessary to comply with any law. Members of
        the Committee shall be appointed originally, and as vacancies occur, by
        the Board, to serve at the pleasure of the Board. The Board may serve as
        the Committee if all Board members are otherwise eligible to serve on
        the Committee.

3.2     The Committee shall meet at such times and places as it determines. A
        majority of its members shall constitute a quorum, and the decision of a
        majority of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present
        shall constitute the decision of the Committee. A memorandum or other
        document signed by all of its members shall constitute the decision of
        the Committee without the necessity, in such event, for holding an
        actual meeting.

3.3     The Committee shall have the exclusive right to interpret, construe and
        administer the Plan, to determine the persons who are eligible to
        receive Awards, and to act in all matters pertaining to the granting of
        Awards and the contents of the Agreements evidencing the Awards,
        including without limitation, the determination of the number of shares
        of Stock subject to an Award, and the form, terms, conditions and
        duration of each Award, and any amendment thereof, consistent with the
        provisions of the Plan. All acts, determinations and decisions of the
        Committee made or taken pursuant to grants of authority under the Plan
        or with respect to any questions arising in connection with the
        administration and interpretation of the Plan, including the
        severability of any and all of the provisions thereof, shall be
        conclusive, final and binding upon all Participants, Eligible
        Participants and their beneficiaries.

3.4     The Committee may adopt such rules, regulations and procedures of
        general application for the administration of the Plan as it deems
        appropriate.

3.5     The number of shares of Stock which are available for Award under the
        Plan shall be Three Hundred Thousand (300,000) shares. Such shares of
        Stock shall be made available from authorized and unissued shares. If,
        for any reason, any shares of Stock subject to purchase under the Plan
        are not purchased, or are reacquired by the Company, for reasons
        including, but not limited to, forfeiture, termination, expiration or
        cancellation of a Stock Option, such shares of Stock shall not be
        charged against the aggregate number of shares of Stock available for
        Awards under the Plan and shall again be available for Award under the
        Plan.

3.6     Each Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written
        Agreement. Each Agreement shall be subject to and incorporate, by
        reference or otherwise, the applicable terms and conditions of the Plan,
        and any other terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as
        may be directed by the Committee.

                                                                     Page 3 of 8

<PAGE>

3.7     The Company shall not be required to issue any shares of Stock or
        deliver certificates therefor prior to:

        (a)   the listing of such shares on any stock exchange on which the
              Stock may then be listed; and

        (b)   the completion of any registration or qualification of such shares
              of Stock under any federal or state law, or any ruling or
              regulation of any government body which the Company shall, in its
              discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable.

3.8     All certificates for shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall also
        be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the
        Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other
        requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock
        exchange or national market system upon which the Stock is then listed
        and any applicable federal or state laws, and the Committee may cause a
        legend or legends to be placed on any such certificates to make
        appropriate reference to such restrictions. In making such
        determination, the Committee may rely upon an opinion of counsel for the
        Company.

3.9     Except as provided otherwise in the Plan or in an Agreement, no
        Participant awarded a Stock Option shall have any right as a shareholder
        with respect to any shares of Stock covered by his or her Stock Option
        prior to the date of issuance to him or her of a certificate or
        certificates for such shares of Stock.

3.10    If any reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock
        split-up, stock dividend, or consolidation of shares of Stock, merger or
        consolidation of the Company or sale or other disposition by the Company
        of all or a portion of its assets, any other change in the Company's
        corporate structure, or any distribution to shareholders other than a
        cash dividend results in the outstanding shares of Stock, or any
        securities exchanged therefor or received in their place, being
        exchanged for a different number or class of shares of Stock or other
        securities of the Company, or for shares of Stock or other securities of
        any other corporation; or new, different or additional shares or other
        securities of the Company or of any other corporation being received by
        the holders of outstanding shares of Stock, then equitable adjustments
        shall be made by the Committee in:

        (a)   the limitation on the aggregate number of shares of Stock that may
              be awarded as set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan;

        (b)   the number and class of shares of Stock that may be purchased upon
              exercise of outstanding Stock Options;

        (c)   the purchase price to be paid per share of Stock under outstanding
              Stock Options; and

        (d)   the terms, conditions or restrictions of any Award and the
              Agreement evidencing such Award.

3.11    The Committee may require each person purchasing shares of Stock
        pursuant to a Stock Option or other Award under the Plan to represent to
        and agree with the Company in writing that he is acquiring the shares of
        Stock without a view to distribution thereof and/or that he has met such
        other requirements as the Committee determines may be applicable to such
        purchase. The

                                                                     Page 4 of 8

<PAGE>

        certificates for such shares of Stock may include any legend which the
        Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer.

3.12    The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the terms and
        conditions of Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events
        affecting the Company or its financial statements or changes in
        applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles. The Committee may
        correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency
        in the Plan or any Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall
        deem desirable to carry it into effect. Notwithstanding any other
        provisions of the Plan, the Committee is also authorized to take such
        action as it determines to be necessary or advisable, and fair and
        equitable to Participants, with respect to outstanding Awards in the
        event the shareholders of the Company approve a definitive agreement or
        plan to merge or consolidate the Company with or into another
        corporation, to sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of
        its assets, or to liquidate the Company. Such action by the Committee
        may include, but is not limited to, establishing, amending or waiving
        the forms, terms, conditions and duration of the Award and the Agreement
        evidencing the Award, so as to provide for earlier, later, extended or
        additional times for exercise or payments, differing methods for
        calculating payments, alternate forms and amounts of payment or other
        modifications. The Committee may take such actions pursuant to this
        section by adopting rules and regulations of general applicability to
        all Participants or to certain categories of Participants, by including,
        amending or waiving terms and conditions in Awards and the Agreements
        evidencing the Awards, or by taking action with respect to individual
        Participants.

3.13    The Committee shall have full power and authority to determine whether,
        to what extent and under what circumstances, any Award or the exercise
        thereof shall be canceled, suspended or rescinded if (a) the
        Participant, without the consent of the Committee, while employed by the
        Company or after termination of such employment, becomes associated
        with, employed by, renders services to, or owns any interest in, other
        than any insubstantial interest, as determined by the Committee, any
        business that is in competition with the Company as determined by the
        Committee in its discretion; (b) is terminated for cause as determined
        by the Committee in its discretion; or (c) otherwise engages in activity
        detrimental to the Company as determined by the Committee in its
        discretion.


                     ARTICLE IV - NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS

4.1     One or more Stock Options may be granted as Nonqualified Stock Options
        to persons who are Eligible Participants on the Option Grant Date of
        such Awards, granting such persons the right to purchase shares of Stock
        at such time or times determined by the Committee, following the
        Effective Date, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this
        Article IV.

4.2     The purchase price per share of Stock under each Nonqualified Stock
        Option shall be established in the Agreement but may not be less than
        100% of the Fair Market Value on the Option Grant Date.

4.3     The Nonqualified Stock Option may be exercised in full or in part from
        time to time within such period as may be specified in the Agreement;
        provided, that, in any event, the Nonqualified Stock Option shall lapse
        and cease to be exercisable upon a Termination of Employment or within
        such period following a Termination of Employment as shall have been
        specified in the Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, which period shall
        not exceed three months unless:

                                                                     Page 5 of 8

<PAGE>

        (a)   employment shall have terminated as a result of death or
              Disability, in which event such period shall not exceed one year
              after the date of death or Disability; or

        (b)   death shall have occurred following a Termination of Employment
              and while the Nonqualified Stock Option was still exercisable, in
              which event such period shall not exceed one year after the date
              of death;

        provided, further, that such period following a Termination of
        Employment shall in no event extend the original exercise period of the
        Nonqualified Stock Option.

4.4     The Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement may include any other terms and
        conditions not inconsistent with this Article IV or Article V below, as
        determined by the Committee.


                     ARTICLE V - INCIDENTS OF STOCK OPTIONS

5.1     Each Stock Option shall be granted subject to such terms and conditions,
        if any, not inconsistent with this Plan, as shall be determined by the
        Committee, including any provisions as to continued employment as
        consideration for the grant or exercise of such Stock Option and any
        provisions that may be advisable to comply with applicable laws,
        regulations or rulings of any governmental authority.

5.2     Except as provided below, a Stock Option shall be exercisable during the
        lifetime of the Participant only by him or his guardian or legal
        representative and shall not be transferable by the Participant other
        than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. However, the
        Committee may, in its sole discretion, either pursuant to an Agreement
        or otherwise, permit a Participant to transfer a Nonqualified Stock
        Option by gift or other donative transfer without payment of
        consideration, conditioned upon and subject to compliance with all
        applicable law (including, but not limited to, securities law).

5.3     Shares of Stock purchased upon exercise of a Stock Option shall be paid
        for in such amounts, at such times and upon such terms as shall be
        determined by the Committee, subject to limitations set forth in the
        Stock Option Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee
        may establish payment terms for the exercise of Stock Options which
        permit the Participant to deliver shares of Stock, or other evidence of
        ownership of Stock satisfactory to the Company, with a Fair Market Value
        equal to the Stock Option price as payment.

5.4     The Committee may at any time offer to buy out for a payment in cash or
        Stock an Option previously granted, based on such terms and conditions
        as the Committee shall establish and communicate to the Participant at
        the time that such offer is made.

5.5     If a Participant is required to pay to the Company an amount with
        respect to income and employment tax withholding obligations in
        connection with exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option, the Committee,
        in its discretion and subject to such rules as it may adopt, may permit
        the Participant to satisfy the obligation, in whole or in part, by
        making an irrevocable election that a portion of the total Fair Market
        Value of the shares of Stock subject to the Nonqualified Stock Option be
        paid in the form of cash in lieu of the issuance of Stock and that such
        cash payment be applied to the satisfaction of the withholding
        obligations. The amount to be withheld shall not exceed the statutory
        minimum federal and state income and employment tax liability arising
        from the Stock Option exercise transaction.

                                                                     Page 6 of 8

<PAGE>

                     ARTICLE VI - AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

6.1     The Board, upon recommendation of the Committee, or otherwise, at any
        time and from time to time may amend or terminate the Plan.

6.2     No amendment to or discontinuance of this Plan or any provision thereof
        by the Board or the shareholders of the Company shall, without the
        written consent of the Participant, adversely affect, as shall be
        determined by the Committee, any Award previously granted to such
        Participant under this Plan; provided, however, the Committee retains
        the right and power to:

        (a)   annul any Award if the Participant is terminated for cause as
              determined by the Committee; and

        (b)   provide for the forfeiture of shares of Stock or other gain under
              an Award for competing against the Company as determined by the
              Committee or for engaging in such other activities detrimental to
              the Company as may be specified in the Agreement evidencing the
              Award.


                     ARTICLE VII - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

7.1     Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted hereunder shall confer upon any
        Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company, or to
        serve as a director thereof, or interfere in any way with the right of
        the Company to terminate his or her employment at any time. Unless
        specifically provided otherwise, no Award granted under the Plan shall
        be deemed salary or compensation for the purpose of computing benefits
        under any employee benefit plan or other arrangement of the Company for
        the benefit of its employees unless the Company shall determine
        otherwise. No Participant shall have any claim to an Award until it is
        actually granted under the Plan. To the extent that any person acquires
        a right to receive payments from the Company under the Plan, such right
        shall, except as otherwise provided by the Committee, be no greater than
        the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. All payments
        to be made hereunder shall be paid from the general funds of the
        company, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no
        segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment of such amounts,
        except as otherwise provided by the Committee.

7.2     The Company may make such provisions and take such steps as it may deem
        necessary or appropriate for the withholding of any taxes which the
        Company is required by any law or regulation of any governmental
        authority, whether federal, state or local, domestic or foreign, to
        withhold in connection with any Stock Option or the exercise thereof,
        including, but not limited to, the withholding of payment of all or any
        portion of such Award or another Award under this Plan until the
        Participant reimburses the Company for the amount the Company is
        required to withhold with respect to such taxes, or canceling any
        portion of such Award or another Award under this Plan in an amount
        sufficient to reimburse itself for the amount it is required to so
        withhold, or selling any property contingently credited by the Company
        for the purpose of paying such Award or another Award under this Plan,
        in order to withhold or reimburse itself for the amount it is required
        to so withhold.

                                                                     Page 7 of 8

<PAGE>

7.3     The Plan and the grant of Awards shall be subject to all applicable
        federal and state laws, rules, and regulations and to such approvals by
        any United States government or regulatory agency as may be required.

7.4     The terms of the Plan shall be binding upon the Company, and its
        successors and assigns.

7.5     No Stock Option shall be transferable except as provided for herein. If
        a Participant attempts to transfer a Stock Option in violation hereof,
        the Committee shall have the authority to terminate the Stock Option.

7.6     This Plan and all actions taken hereunder shall be governed by the laws
        of the State of North Carolina.

7.7     If any provision of this Plan or an Agreement is or becomes or is deemed
        invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or would
        disqualify the Plan or any Agreement under any law deemed applicable by
        the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to
        conform to applicable laws or if it cannot be construed or deemed
        amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially
        altering the intent of the Plan or the Agreement, it shall be stricken
        and the remainder of the Plan or the Agreement shall remain in full
        force and effect.

7.8     This Plan shall expire immediately following the Option Grant Date of
        any Award made based on the Company's financial performance for the
        fourth quarter of its fiscal year ending June 24, 2001 and shall in any
        event expire on September 30, 2001.

                                                                     Page 8 of 8

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.6
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>dex106.txt
<DESCRIPTION>2002 STOCK OPTION BONUS PLAN
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                    Exhibit 10.6

                                   CREE, INC.

                            FISCAL 2002 STOCK OPTION
                                   BONUS PLAN


                         ARTICLE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS

1.1     The Plan is designed to provide for grants of Nonqualified Stock Options
        to Eligible Participants upon the achievement by the Company of certain
        financial targets for each quarter of the fiscal year ending June 30,
        2002. Directors and officers of the Company are not eligible for Awards
        under the Plan.

1.2     Awards under the Plan may be made to Participants only in the form of
        Nonqualified Stock Options at a purchase price per share that is not
        less than the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the Option Grant Date.
        Awards may otherwise be made, to the extent not inconsistent with the
        Plan, at such times, in such amounts, under such terms and to such
        Eligible Participants as is determined from time to time by the
        Committee administering the Plan.

1.3     The Plan was adopted effective July 31, 2001.


                            ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS

        Except where the context otherwise indicates, the following definitions
apply:

2.1     "Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as now in effect or as
        hereafter amended. All citations to sections of the Act or rules
        thereunder are to such sections or rules as they may from time to time
        be amended or renumbered.

2.2     "Agreement" means the written agreement evidencing an Award or Awards
        granted to a Participant under the Plan and includes the notice of grant
        issued by the Company to the Participant with respect to the Award (the
        "Notice of Grant").

2.3     "Award" means a Stock Option granted to a Participant in accordance with
        the provisions of the Plan.

2.4     "Board" means the Board of Directors of Cree, Inc.

2.5     "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now in effect or as
        hereafter amended. All citations to sections of the Code are to such
        sections as they may from time to time be amended or renumbered.

2.6     "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board or such other
        committee consisting of two or more members of the Board as may be
        appointed by the Board to administer this Plan pursuant to Article III.

2.7     "Company" means Cree, Inc., a North Carolina corporation, and its
        successors and assigns. Where the context so requires, the term
        "Company" shall include any corporation which is a member of a
        controlled group of corporations (as defined in Section 414(b) of the
        Code, as

<PAGE>

        modified by Section 415(h) of the Code) which includes the Company; any
        trade or business (whether or not incorporated) which is under common
        control (as defined in Section 414(c) of the Code, as modified by
        Section 415(h) of the Code) with the Company; any organization (whether
        or not incorporated) which is a member of an affiliated service group
        (as defined in Section 414(m) of the Code) which includes the Company;
        and any other entity required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant
        to regulations under Section 414(o) of the Code. With respect to all
        actions relating to the Plan, including, but not limited to, the
        establishment, amendment, termination, operation and administration of
        the Plan, Cree, Inc. shall be authorized to act on behalf of all other
        entities included within the definition of "Company."

2.8     "Disability" means (i) with respect to a Participant who is eligible to
        participate in the Company's program of long-term disability insurance,
        a condition with respect to which the Participant is entitled to
        commence benefits under such program of long-term disability insurance,
        and (ii) with respect to any Participant (including a Participant who is
        eligible to participate in the Company's program of long-term disability
        insurance), a disability as determined under procedures established by
        the Committee or in any Award.

2.9     "Eligible Participant" means any employee of the Company, as shall be
        determined by the Committee; provided, however, that no officers or
        directors of the Company shall be Eligible Participants.

2.10    "Fair Market Value" means the last sale price of the Stock in the
        regular trading session on The Nasdaq Stock Market on the date of
        reference (or, if there is no regular trading session that day, the
        nearest preceding day on which there was a regular trading session). The
        Committee may in its discretion establish an alternative method of
        determining Fair Market Value.

2.11    "Nonqualified Stock Option" means a Stock Option which is not an
        incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Code. All Awards under
        this Plan shall be Nonqualified Stock Options.

2.12    "Option Grant Date" means, as to any Stock Option, the latest of:

        (a)   the date on which the Committee approves the grant of the Stock
              Option to the Participant;

        (b)   such other date (later than the date described in (a) above) as
              the Committee may designate.

2.13    "Participant" means an Eligible Participant to whom an Award has been
        granted and who has entered into an Agreement evidencing the Award.

2.14    "Plan" means the Cree, Inc. Fiscal 2002 Stock Option Bonus Plan as set
        forth herein and as further amended or amended and restated from time to
        time.

2.15    "Stock" means shares of the Common Stock of Cree, Inc., par value
        $0.00125 per share, as may be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of
        Section 3.10.

2.16    "Stock Option" means an Award under this Plan of an option to purchase
        Stock.

                                                                     Page 2 of 8

<PAGE>

2.17    "Termination of Employment" means the discontinuance of employment of a
        Participant with the Company for any reason, whether voluntary or
        involuntary. The determination of whether a Participant has discontinued
        employment shall be made by the Committee in its discretion.


                          ARTICLE III - ADMINISTRATION

3.1     The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee, in its
        discretion, may delegate to one or more of its members such of its
        powers as it deems appropriate. The Committee also may limit the power
        of any member to the extent necessary to comply with any law. Members of
        the Committee shall be appointed originally, and as vacancies occur, by
        the Board, to serve at the pleasure of the Board. The Board may serve as
        the Committee if all Board members are otherwise eligible to serve on
        the Committee.

3.2     The Committee shall meet at such times and places as it determines. A
        majority of its members shall constitute a quorum, and the decision of a
        majority of those present at any meeting at which a quorum is present
        shall constitute the decision of the Committee. A memorandum or other
        document signed by all of its members shall constitute the decision of
        the Committee without the necessity, in such event, for holding an
        actual meeting.

3.3     The Committee shall have the exclusive right to interpret, construe and
        administer the Plan, to determine the persons who are eligible to
        receive Awards and to act in all matters pertaining to the granting of
        Awards and the contents of the Agreements evidencing the Awards,
        including without limitation, the determination of the number of shares
        of Stock subject to an Award, and the form, terms, conditions and
        duration of each Award, and any amendment thereof, consistent with the
        provisions of the Plan. All acts, determinations and decisions of the
        Committee made or taken pursuant to grants of authority under the Plan
        or with respect to any questions arising in connection with the
        administration and interpretation of the Plan, including the
        severability of any and all of the provisions thereof, shall be
        conclusive, final and binding upon all Participants, Eligible
        Participants and their beneficiaries.

3.4     The Committee may adopt such rules, regulations and procedures of
        general application for the administration of the Plan as it deems
        appropriate.

3.5     The number of shares of Stock which are available for Award under the
        Plan shall be Six Hundred Thousand (600,000) shares. Such shares of
        Stock shall be made available from authorized and unissued shares. If,
        for any reason, any shares of Stock subject to purchase under the Plan
        are not purchased, or are reacquired by the Company, for reasons
        including, but not limited to, forfeiture, termination, expiration or
        cancellation of a Stock Option, such shares of Stock shall not be
        charged against the aggregate number of shares of Stock available for
        Awards under the Plan and shall again be available for Award under the
        Plan.

3.6     Each Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written
        Agreement. Each Agreement shall be subject to and incorporate, by
        reference or otherwise, the applicable terms and conditions of the Plan,
        and any other terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as
        may be directed by the Committee.

3.7     The Company shall not be required to issue any shares of Stock or
        deliver certificates therefor prior to:

                                                                     Page 3 of 8

<PAGE>

        (a)   the listing of such shares on any stock exchange on which the
              Stock may then be listed; and

        (b)   the completion of any registration or qualification of such shares
              of Stock under any federal or state law, or any ruling or
              regulation of any government body which the Company shall, in its
              discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable.

3.8     All certificates for shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall also
        be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the
        Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other
        requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock
        exchange or national market system upon which the Stock is then listed
        and any applicable federal or state laws, and the Committee may cause a
        legend or legends to be placed on any such certificates to make
        appropriate reference to such restrictions. In making such
        determination, the Committee may rely upon an opinion of counsel for the
        Company.

3.9     Except as provided otherwise in the Plan or in an Agreement, no
        Participant awarded a Stock Option shall have any right as a shareholder
        with respect to any shares of Stock covered by his or her Stock Option
        prior to the date of issuance to him or her of a certificate or
        certificates for such shares of Stock.

3.10    If any reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock
        split-up, stock dividend, or consolidation of shares of Stock, merger or
        consolidation of the Company or sale or other disposition by the Company
        of all or a portion of its assets, any other change in the Company's
        corporate structure, or any distribution to shareholders other than a
        cash dividend results in the outstanding shares of Stock, or any
        securities exchanged therefor or received in their place, being
        exchanged for a different number or class of shares of Stock or other
        securities of the Company, or for shares of Stock or other securities of
        any other corporation; or new, different or additional shares or other
        securities of the Company or of any other corporation being received by
        the holders of outstanding shares of Stock, then equitable adjustments
        shall be made by the Committee in:

        (a)   the limitation on the aggregate number of shares of Stock that may
              be awarded as set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan;

        (b)   the number and class of shares of Stock that may be purchased upon
              exercise of outstanding Stock Options;

        (c)   the purchase price to be paid per share of Stock under outstanding
              Stock Options; and

        (d)   the terms, conditions or restrictions of any Award and the
              Agreement evidencing such Award.

3.11    The Committee may require each person purchasing shares of Stock
        pursuant to a Stock Option or other Award under the Plan to represent to
        and agree with the Company in writing that he is acquiring the shares of
        Stock without a view to distribution thereof and/or that he has met such
        other requirements as the Committee determines may be applicable to such
        purchase. The certificates for such shares of Stock may include any
        legend which the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions
        on transfer.

                                                                     Page 4 of 8

<PAGE>

3.12    The Committee shall be authorized to make adjustments in the terms and
        conditions of Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events
        affecting the Company or its financial statements or changes in
        applicable laws, regulations or accounting principles. The Committee may
        correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency
        in the Plan or any Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall
        deem desirable to carry it into effect. Notwithstanding any other
        provisions of the Plan, the Committee is also authorized to take such
        action as it determines to be necessary or advisable, and fair and
        equitable to Participants, with respect to outstanding Awards in the
        event the shareholders of the Company approve a definitive agreement or
        plan to merge or consolidate the Company with or into another
        corporation, to sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of
        its assets or to liquidate the Company. Such action by the Committee may
        include, but is not limited to, establishing, amending or waiving the
        forms, terms, conditions and duration of the Award and the Agreement
        evidencing the Award, so as to provide for earlier, later, extended or
        additional times for exercise or payments, differing methods for
        calculating payments, alternate forms and amounts of payment or other
        modifications. The Committee may take such actions pursuant to this
        section by adopting rules and regulations of general applicability to
        all Participants or to certain categories of Participants, by including,
        amending or waiving terms and conditions in Awards and the Agreements
        evidencing the Awards, or by taking action with respect to individual
        Participants.

3.13    The Committee shall have full power and authority to determine whether,
        to what extent and under what circumstances, any Award or the exercise
        thereof shall be canceled, suspended or rescinded if (a) the
        Participant, without the consent of the Committee, while employed by the
        Company or after termination of such employment, becomes associated
        with, employed by, renders services to, or owns any interest in, other
        than any insubstantial interest, as determined by the Committee, any
        business that is in competition with the Company as determined by the
        Committee in its discretion; (b) is terminated for cause as determined
        by the Committee in its discretion; (c) takes an extended unpaid leave
        of absence as determined by the Committee in its discretion, or (d)
        otherwise engages in activity detrimental to the Company as determined
        by the Committee in its discretion.


                     ARTICLE IV - NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS

4.1     One or more Stock Options may be granted as Nonqualified Stock Options
        to persons who are Eligible Participants on the Option Grant Date of
        such Awards, granting such persons the right to purchase shares of Stock
        at such time or times determined by the Committee, following the
        Effective Date, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this
        Article IV.

4.2     The purchase price per share of Stock under each Nonqualified Stock
        Option shall be established in the Agreement but may not be less than
        100% of the Fair Market Value on the Option Grant Date.

4.3     Unless the Committee, in its discretion at the time of the grant of the
        Stock Option, provides for a longer or shorter period and such longer or
        shorter period is specified in the Notice of Grant, or the Committee
        extends the termination date as provided in Section 3.12 of the Plan,
        the Stock Options granted under the Plan shall terminate and cease to be
        exercisable at 11:59 p.m. local time Durham, North Carolina, on the
        seventh (7/th/) anniversary of the Option Grant Date if not sooner
        exercised or terminated.

                                                                     Page 5 of 8

<PAGE>

4.4     The Nonqualified Stock Option may be exercised in full or in part from
        time to time within such period as may be specified in the Agreement
        (including the Notice of Grant); provided, that, in any event, the
        Nonqualified Stock Option shall lapse and cease to be exercisable upon a
        Termination of Employment or within such period following a Termination
        of Employment as shall have been specified in the Agreement, which
        period shall not exceed the later of ninety (90) days following
        Termination of Employment or nine (9) months following the Option Grant
        Date, unless:

        (a)   employment shall have terminated as a result of death or
              Disability, in which event such period shall not exceed one year
              after the date of death or Disability; or

        (b)   death shall have occurred following a Termination of Employment
              and while the Nonqualified Stock Option was still exercisable, in
              which event such period shall not exceed one year after the date
              of death;

        provided, further, that such period following a Termination of
        Employment shall in no event extend the original exercise period of the
        Nonqualified Stock Option.

4.5     The Agreement may include any other terms and conditions not
        inconsistent with this Article IV or Article V below, as determined by
        the Committee.


                     ARTICLE V - INCIDENTS OF STOCK OPTIONS

5.1     Each Stock Option shall be granted subject to such terms and conditions,
        if any, not inconsistent with this Plan, as shall be determined by the
        Committee, including any provisions as to continued employment as
        consideration for the grant or exercise of such Stock Option and any
        provisions that may be advisable to comply with applicable laws,
        regulations or rulings of any governmental authority.

5.2     Except as provided below, a Stock Option shall be exercisable during the
        lifetime of the Participant only by him or his guardian or legal
        representative and shall not be transferable by the Participant other
        than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. However, the
        Committee may, in its sole discretion, either pursuant to an Agreement
        or otherwise, permit a Participant to transfer a Nonqualified Stock
        Option by gift or other donative transfer without payment of
        consideration, conditioned upon and subject to compliance with all
        applicable law (including, but not limited to, securities law).

5.3     Shares of Stock purchased upon exercise of a Stock Option shall be paid
        for in such amounts, at such times and upon such terms as shall be
        determined by the Committee, subject to limitations set forth in the
        Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee may establish
        payment terms for the exercise of Stock Options which permit the
        Participant to deliver shares of Stock, or other evidence of ownership
        of Stock satisfactory to the Company, with a Fair Market Value equal to
        the Stock Option price as payment.

5.4     The Committee may at any time offer to buy out for a payment in cash or
        Stock an Option previously granted, based on such terms and conditions
        as the Committee shall establish and communicate to the Participant at
        the time that such offer is made.

                                                                     Page 6 of 8

<PAGE>

5.5     If a Participant is required to pay to the Company an amount with
        respect to income and employment tax withholding obligations in
        connection with exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option, the Committee,
        in its discretion and subject to such rules as it may adopt, may permit
        the Participant to satisfy the obligation, in whole or in part, by
        making an irrevocable election that a portion of the total Fair Market
        Value of the shares of Stock subject to the Nonqualified Stock Option be
        paid in the form of cash in lieu of the issuance of Stock and that such
        cash payment be applied to the satisfaction of the withholding
        obligations. The amount to be withheld shall not exceed the statutory
        minimum federal and state income and employment tax liability arising
        from the Stock Option exercise transaction.


                     ARTICLE VI - AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

6.1     The Board, upon recommendation of the Committee, or otherwise, at any
        time and from time to time may amend or terminate the Plan.

6.2     No amendment to or discontinuance of this Plan or any provision thereof
        by the Board or the shareholders of the Company shall, without the
        written consent of the Participant, adversely affect, as shall be
        determined by the Committee, any Award previously granted to such
        Participant under this Plan; provided, however, the Committee retains
        the right and power to:

        (a)   annul any Award if the Participant is terminated for cause as
              determined by the Committee; and

        (b)   provide for the forfeiture of shares of Stock or other gain under
              an Award for competing against the Company as determined by the
              Committee or for engaging in such other activities detrimental to
              the Company as may be specified in the Agreement evidencing the
              Award.


                     ARTICLE VII - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

7.1     Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted hereunder shall confer upon any
        Participant any right to continue in the employ of the Company or
        interfere in any way with the right of the Company to terminate his or
        her employment at any time. Unless specifically provided otherwise, no
        Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed salary or compensation for
        the purpose of computing benefits under any employee benefit plan or
        other arrangement of the Company for the benefit of its employees unless
        the Company shall determine otherwise. No Participant shall have any
        claim to an Award until it is actually granted under the Plan. To the
        extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the
        Company under the Plan, such right shall, except as otherwise provided
        by the Committee, be no greater than the right of an unsecured general
        creditor of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder shall be paid
        from the general funds of the company, and no special or separate fund
        shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to
        assure payment of such amounts, except as otherwise provided by the
        Committee.

7.2     The Company may make such provisions and take such steps as it may deem
        necessary or appropriate for the withholding of any taxes which the
        Company is required by any law or regulation of any governmental
        authority, whether federal, state or local, domestic or foreign, to
        withhold in connection with any Stock Option or the exercise thereof,
        including, but not limited

                                                                     Page 7 of 8

<PAGE>

        to, the withholding of payment of all or any portion of such Award or
        another Award under this Plan until the Participant reimburses the
        Company for the amount the Company is required to withhold with respect
        to such taxes, or canceling any portion of such Award or another Award
        under this Plan in an amount sufficient to reimburse itself for the
        amount it is required to so withhold, or selling any property
        contingently credited by the Company for the purpose of paying such
        Award or another Award under this Plan, in order to withhold or
        reimburse itself for the amount it is required to so withhold.

7.3     The Plan and the grant of Awards shall be subject to all applicable
        federal and state laws, rules, and regulations and to such approvals by
        any United States government or regulatory agency as may be required.

7.4     The terms of the Plan shall be binding upon the Company, and its
        successors and assigns.

7.5     No Stock Option shall be transferable except as provided for herein. If
        a Participant attempts to transfer a Stock Option in violation hereof,
        the Committee shall have the authority to terminate the Stock Option.

7.6     This Plan and all actions taken hereunder shall be governed by the laws
        of the State of North Carolina.

7.7     If any provision of this Plan or an Agreement is or becomes or is deemed
        invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or would
        disqualify the Plan or any Agreement under any law deemed applicable by
        the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to
        conform to applicable laws or if it cannot be construed or deemed
        amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially
        altering the intent of the Plan or the Agreement, it shall be stricken
        and the remainder of the Plan or the Agreement shall remain in full
        force and effect.

7.8     This Plan shall expire immediately following the Option Grant Date of
        any Award made based on the Company's financial performance for the
        fourth quarter of its fiscal year ending June 30, 2002 and shall in any
        event expire on September 30, 2002.


                                   CERTIFICATE

        I, Adam H. Broome,  Secretary of Cree, Inc.,  having in my custody
and possession the corporate records of said corporation, do hereby certify that
the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the Cree, Inc. Fiscal 2002 Stock
Option Bonus Plan as adopted by the Board of Directors on July 31, 2001.

        Witness my hand and seal this ______ day of ___________, 2001.



                                                     ___________________________
                                                     Adam H. Broome

                                                                     Page 8 of 8

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>dex211.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1

                           SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

                 Cree Lighting Company, a California corporation
               Cree Microwave, Inc., a North Carolina corporation
              Cree Technologies, Inc., a North Carolina corporation
        Cree Employee Services Corporation, a North Carolina corporation
               CI Holdings, Limited, a North Carolina corporation
             Cree Funding, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
                 Cree Research FSC, Inc., a Barbados corporation
              Cree Asia-Pacific, Inc., a North Carolina corporation
                 Cree Japan, Inc., a North Carolina corporation

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>dex231.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDMENT AUDITORS
<TEXT>
<PAGE>

                                                                    Exhibit 23.1

                        Consent of Independent Auditors

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-8 Nos. 333-48830, 333-43490, 333-72774, 333-92479, 333-92477 and
33-98958 and Form S-3 No. 33-98728) of Cree, Inc. of our report dated July 24,
2002, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Cree, Inc.
included in the Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended June 30, 2002.



                                              /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Raleigh, North Carolina
August 16, 2002

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
