Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Executive Overview     There was no revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $0 for the year ended December 31, 2008 As we sold all of our operating assets in 2007, we have no means to generate new revenues.     Net loss was $59,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to net loss was $144,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008.    At December 31, 2009, we had $2,000 in cash and cash equivalents, as compared to $67,000 at December 31, 2008. We had working capital of  ($10,000) at December 31, 2009 as compared with working capital of $48,000 at December 31, 2008.     Our current policy is to retain earnings, if any, for operations in connection with selling the Company as a shell corporation, maintain our status as a reporting company and/or merge the Company successfully into a new operating business.    Approach to MD&A    The purpose of MD&A is to provide our shareholders and other interested parties with information necessary to gain an understanding of our financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations. As such, we seek to satisfy three principal objectives:            •    to provide a narrative explanation of a company’s financial statements “in plain English” that enables the average investor to see the company through the eyes of management;                      •    to enhance the overall financial disclosure and provide the context within which financial information should be analyzed; and                      •    to provide information about the quality of, and potential variability of, a company’s earnings and cash flow, so that investors can ascertain the likelihood and relationship of past performance being indicative of future performance.        We believe the best way to achieve this is to give the reader:            •    An understanding of our operating environment and its risks                      •    An outline of critical accounting policies                      •    A review of our corporate governance structure                      •    A review of the key components of the financial statements and our cash position and capital resources                      •    A review of the important trends in the financial statements and our cash flow                      •    Disclosure on our internal controls and procedures       Operating Environment     We have had no source of revenue since the beginning of third quarter 2007. Based on current and projected operating levels, we do not believe that we can maintain our liquidity position at a consistent level, on a short-term or long-term basis, without a new business model and outside funding.                         8              Critical Accounting Policies    This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.     Our unaudited and audited financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company’s current circumstances, including the sale of all its revenue generating assets and significant operating losses, raise substantial doubt about the likelihood that the Company will continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.    Key Components of the Financial Statements and Important Trends    The Company’s financial statements, including the Consolidated Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statements of Operations, the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, should be read in conjunction with the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. MD&A explains the key components of each of these financial statements, key trends and reasons for reporting period-to-period fluctuations.     The Consolidated Balance Sheet provides a snapshot view of our financial condition at the end of our latest fiscal year. A balance sheet helps management and our stockholders understand the financial strength and capabilities of our business.  Balance sheets can help identify and analyze trends, particularly in the area of receivables and payables. A review of cash balances compared to the prior years and in relation to ongoing profit or loss can show the ability of the Company to withstand business variations. The difference between Current Assets and Current Liabilities is referred to as Working Capital and measures how much in liquid assets a company has available to build its business. Receivables that are substantially higher than revenue for the quarter may indicate a slowdown of collections, with an impact on future cash position. This is addressed further in MD&A under   Liquidity and Capital Resources.           9                 The Consolidated Statement of Operations tells the reader whether the Company had a profit or loss. It shows key sources of revenue and major expense categories. It is important to note period-to-period comparisons of each line item of this statement, reasons for any fluctuation and how costs are managed in relation to the overall revenue trend of the business. These statements are prepared using accrual accounting under generally accepted accounting standards in the United States. This is addressed further in MD&A under Revenues and Expenses.     The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows explains the actual sources and uses of cash. Some expenses of the Company, such as depreciation and amortization, do not result in a cash outflow in the current period, since the underlying patent expenditure or asset purchase was made years earlier. New capital expenditures, on the other hand, result in a disbursement of cash, but will be expensed in the Consolidated Statement of Operations over their useful lives. Fluctuations in receivables and payables also explain why the net change in cash is not equal to the net loss reported on the Statement of Operations. Therefore, it is possible that the impact of a net loss on cash is less or more than the actual amount of the loss. This is discussed further in MD&A under   Liquidity and Capital Resources.     The Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity shows the impact of the operating results on the Company’s equity. In addition, this statement shows new equity brought into the Company through stock sales or stock option exercise. This is discussed further in MD&A under   Liquidity and Capital Resources.    Results of Operations    The following discussion and analysis relates to our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007, and the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report.    Continuing Operations    For the Year Ended December 31, 2009, Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008    Revenues    There were no revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009 and  December 31, 2008.     Operating Expenses           Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased to $56,000 from $151,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008, a decrease of 62%. The decrease in operating expenses resulted from a decrease in general and administrative expense due to the suspension of operations.    Net Loss    The net loss  was $59,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to a net loss of $144,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008.    Liquidity and Capital Resources    At December 31, 2009, we had $1,800 in cash and cash equivalents as compared to $66,800 at December 31, 2008.. We had working capital of ($10,000) at December 31, 2009 as compared with working capital of $48,000 at December 31, 2008.     As previously disclosed, pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement, we sold substantially all of our assets and those of our wholly-owned subsidiary, DPI (excluding certain assets, such as cash), to a wholly-owned subsidiary of DTS, Inc. This transaction was approved by the stockholders on June 15, 2007, and was closed on July 2, 2007.     There is no current source of future cash flow for the Company as we sold substantially all of our audio assets and those of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Desper Products, Inc., on July 2, 2007.     In September 2006, the Company and DPI entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with DTS, Inc. and a wholly owned subsidiary thereof pursuant to which we agreed to sell substantially all of our assets (other than certain excluded assets, such as cash). The consummation of the asset sale was subject to approval of holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Common Stock of the Company. In April 2007, the Company sold an aggregate of 16,236,615 shares (1,623,662 shares after the 1-for-10 reverse stock split effected in December, 2008) of its Common Stock to certain investors.     The Company held a special meeting of stockholders on June 15, 2007 to vote on the asset sale transaction but not with respect to the dissolution of the Company. The asset sale transaction was approved. The asset sale transaction closed on July 2, 2007.  $0.21/share, or $1,365,000, was distributed to shareholders in April 2008 upon completion of a 270 day escrow period.              10                 Our current policy is to retain earnings, if any, for operations in connection with selling the Company as a shell corporation, maintain our status as a reporting company and/or merge the Company successfully into a new operating business.    Net Operating Loss Carryforwards    At December 31, 2009, we had net operating loss carryforwards for Federal income tax purposes of approximately $21,000,000 which are available to offset future Federal taxable income, if any, through 2015. Approximately $20,700,000 of these net operating loss carryforwards are subject to an annual limitation of approximately $1,000,000. Utilization of these loss carryforwards is subject to further limitation as a result of change in ownership of the Company, as defined by Federal tax law.     Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    We are not exposed to material future earnings or cash flow fluctuations from changes in interest rates at December 31, 2009 because of our suspension of operations. We have not entered into any derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk or for speculative purposes and we are not currently evaluating the future use of such financial instruments.    Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 