Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     Executive Overview     There was no revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 As we sold all of our operating assets in 2007, we have no means to generate new revenues.     Net loss was $39,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to net loss was $59,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009.    At December 31, 2010, we had $1,000 in cash and cash equivalents, as compared to $2,000 at December 31, 2009. We had working capital of  ($49,000) at December 31, 2010 as compared with working capital of ($10,000) at December 31, 2009.     Our current policy is to retain earnings, if any, for operations in connection with selling the Company as a shell corporation, maintain our status as a reporting company and/or merge the Company successfully into a new operating business.             5               Approach to MD&A    The purpose of MD&A is to provide our shareholders and other interested parties with information necessary to gain an understanding of our financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations. As such, we seek to satisfy three principal objectives:            •    to provide a narrative explanation of a company’s financial statements “in plain English” that enables the average investor to see the company through the eyes of management;                      •    to enhance the overall financial disclosure and provide the context within which financial information should be analyzed; and                      •    to provide information about the quality of, and potential variability of, a company’s earnings and cash flow, so that investors can ascertain the likelihood and relationship of past performance being indicative of future performance.       We believe the best way to achieve this is to give the reader:            •    An understanding of our operating environment and its risks                      •    An outline of critical accounting policies                      •    A review of our corporate governance structure                      •    A review of the key components of the financial statements and our cash position and capital resources                      •    A review of the important trends in the financial statements and our cash flow                      •    Disclosure on our internal controls and procedures       Operating Environment     We have had no source of revenue since the beginning of third quarter 2007. Based on current and projected operating levels, we do not believe that we can maintain our liquidity position at a consistent level, on a short-term or long-term basis, without a new business model and outside funding.                 Critical Accounting Policies    This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.     Our unaudited and audited financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company’s current circumstances, including the sale of all its revenue generating assets and significant operating losses, raise substantial doubt about the likelihood that the Company will continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.    Key Components of the Financial Statements and Important Trends    The Company’s financial statements, including the Balance Sheets, the Statements of Operations, the Statements of Cash Flows and the Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, should be read in conjunction with the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. MD&A explains the key components of each of these financial statements, key trends and reasons for reporting period-to-period fluctuations.     The Balance Sheet provides a snapshot view of our financial condition at the end of our latest fiscal year. A balance sheet helps management and our stockholders understand the financial strength and capabilities of our business.  Balance sheets can help identify and analyze trends, particularly in the area of receivables and payables. A review of cash balances compared to the prior years and in relation to ongoing profit or loss can show the ability of the Company to withstand business variations. The difference between Current Assets and Current Liabilities is referred to as Working Capital and measures how much in liquid assets a company has available to build its business. This is addressed further in MD&A under  Liquidity and Capital Resources.     The Statement of Operations tells the reader whether the Company had a profit or loss. It shows key sources of revenue and major expense categories. It is important to note period-to-period comparisons of each line item of this statement, reasons for any fluctuation and how costs are managed in relation to the overall revenue trend of the business. These statements are prepared using accrual accounting under generally accepted accounting standards in the United States. This is addressed further in MD&A under Revenues and Expenses.             6                The Statement of Cash Flows explains the actual sources and uses of cash. Some expenses of the Company, such as depreciation and amortization, do not result in a cash outflow in the current period, since the underlying patent expenditure or asset purchase was made years earlier. New capital expenditures, on the other hand, result in a disbursement of cash, but will be expensed in the Statement of Operations over their useful lives. Fluctuations in receivables and payables also explain why the net change in cash is not equal to the net loss reported on the Statement of Operations. Therefore, it is possible that the impact of a net loss on cash is less or more than the actual amount of the loss. This is discussed further in MD&A under  Liquidity and Capital Resources.     The Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity shows the impact of the operating results on the Company’s equity. In addition, this statement shows new equity brought into the Company through stock sales or stock option exercise. This is discussed further in MD&A under  Liquidity and Capital Resources.    Results of Operations    The following discussion and analysis relates to our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report.    Continuing Operations    For the Year Ended December 31, 2010, Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009    Revenues    There were no revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009.     Operating Expenses    Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased to $36,000 from $56,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of 62%. The decrease in operating expenses resulted from a decrease in general and administrative expenses.    Net Loss    The net loss was $39,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to a net loss of $59,000 for the year ended December 31, 2009.    Liquidity and Capital Resources    At December 31, 2010, we had $1,126 in cash and cash equivalents as compared to $1,792 at December 31, 2009.. We had working capital of ($49,516) at December 31, 2010 as compared with working capital of (10,075) at December 31, 2009.    The Company's two shareholder/officers have been advancing cash to the Company to pay for ongoing expenses.  As of December 31, 2010, $40,000 had been advanced and is reflected as Loans from Shareholders. An additional $13,000 was advanced on January 13, 2011.    Our current policy is to retain earnings, if any, for operations in connection with selling the Company as a shell corporation, maintain our status as a reporting company and/or merge the Company successfully into a new operating business.    Net Operating Loss Carryforwards    At December 31, 2010, we had net operating loss carryforwards for Federal income tax purposes of approximately $9,500,000 which may be available to offset future Federal taxable income, if any, through 2030 These net operating loss carryforwards are subject to an annual limitation of approximately $1,000,000. Utilization of these loss carryforwards is subject to further limitation as a result of change in ownership of the Company, as defined by Federal tax law.     Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    We are not exposed to material future earnings or cash flow fluctuations from changes in interest rates at December 31, 2010 because of our suspension of operations. We have not entered into any derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk or for speculative purposes and we are not currently evaluating the future use of such financial instruments.    Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 