-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 TvFO6YDMdxl4UqdBqbZ5K/14NK0jkRVmHt7jF5ngH7vUFybRIQj0JRg2v1bnD+Sf
 kmBXRxM5iY43AxtogOAFeA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001157523-06-002094.txt : 20060228
<SEC-HEADER>0001157523-06-002094.hdr.sgml : 20060228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20060228162838
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001157523-06-002094
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		33
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20051231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20060228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20060228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC/DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000912513
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCTS [2890]
		IRS NUMBER:				223268660
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-12372
		FILM NUMBER:		06651341

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		FIVE GARRET MOUNTAIN PLAZA
		CITY:			WEST PATERSON
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07424
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9733573100

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		FIVE GARRET MOUNTAIN PLAZA
		CITY:			WEST PATERSON
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07424
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>a5083158.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC. 10-K
<TEXT>
 ==============================================================================

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-12372

                              CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.
                              ---------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                    DELAWARE                                22-3268660
            (State or other jurisdiction                (I.R.S. Employer
         of incorporation or organization)             Identification No).

             FIVE GARRET MOUNTAIN PLAZA
             WEST PATERSON, NEW JERSEY                        07424
      (Address of principal executive offices)             (Zip Code)

        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE (973) 357-3100

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

TITLE OF EACH CLASS                         NAME OF EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED
- -------------------                         ------------------------------------
Common Stock, par value $.01 per share      New York Stock Exchange

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                      None
                                (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as
defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes  |X|    No [_]

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes  [_]    No |X|

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days. Yes |X| No [_]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K (ss.229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
Yes  [_]    No |X|

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of "accelerated
filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
Large accelerated filer |X|  Accelerated filer [_]   Non-accelerated filer [_]

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
Yes  [_]    No |X|

At June 30, 2005 the aggregate market value of common stock held by
non-affiliates was $1,815,762,963 based on the closing price ($39.80) of such
stock on such date.

There were 46,392,768 shares of common stock outstanding on January 31, 2006.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
DOCUMENTS                                                     PART OF FORM 10-K
Portions of Proxy Statement for 2006 Annual Meeting           Parts III, IV
Of Common Stockholders, dated March 20, 2006.
 ==============================================================================



<PAGE>



                     CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                    FORM 10-K
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                                           Page
Part 1.
<S>                 <C>                                                                                                     <C>
               Item 1.      Business                                                                                        4
               Item 1A.     Risk Factors                                                                                   13
               Item 1B      Unresolved Staff Comments                                                                      14
               Item 2.      Properties                                                                                     15
               Item 3.      Legal Proceedings                                                                              17
               Item 4.      Submission Of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders                                            18

Part II.
               Item 5.      Market For Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
                                Purchases of Equity Securities                                                             19
               Item 6.      Selected Financial Data                                                                        20
               Item 7.      Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results Of Operations          21
               Item 7A.     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk                                     32
               Item 8       Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                                                    37
               Item 9.      Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure           74
               Item 9A.     Controls and Procedures                                                                        74
               Item 9B.     Other Information                                                                              74

Part III.
               Item 10.     Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant                                             75
               Item 11.     Executive Compensation                                                                         76
               Item 12.     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
                                Matters                                                                                    76
               Item 13.     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                                                 76
               Item 14.     Principal Accountant Fees and Services                                                         76

Part IV.
               Item 15.     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules                                                     77
                            Signatures
</TABLE>

                                      -2-

<PAGE>



COMMENTS ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

A number of the statements made by us in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in
other documents, including but not limited to the Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer's and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer's
letters to stockholders and stakeholders, respectively, our press releases and
other periodic reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission, may be
regarded as "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

Forward-looking statements include, among others, statements concerning our
(including our segments) outlook for the future, anticipated results of
acquisitions and divestitures, pricing trends, the effects of changes in
currency rates and forces within the industry, the completion dates of and
anticipated expenditures for capital projects, expected sales growth,
operational excellence strategies and their results, expected annual effective
tax rates, our long-term goals and other statements of expectations, beliefs,
future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar
expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Such statements
are based upon our current beliefs and expectations and are subject to
significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary materially from
those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

The following factors, among others, could affect the anticipated results: the
ability to complete the successful integration of Surface Specialties, including
realization of anticipated synergies within the expected timeframes or at all,
and the ongoing operations of the business; the retention of current ratings on
our debt; changes in global and regional economies; the financial well-being of
end consumers of our products; changes in demand for our products or in the
quality, costs and availability of our raw materials and energy; customer
inventory reductions; the actions of competitors; currency and interest rate
fluctuations; technological change; our ability to renegotiate expiring
long-term contracts; changes in employee relations, including possible strikes;
government regulations, including those related to taxation and those particular
to the purchase, sale and manufacture of chemicals or operation of chemical
plants; governmental funding for those military programs that utilize our
products; litigation, including its inherent uncertainty and changes in the
number or severity of various types of claims brought against us; difficulties
in plant operations and materials transportation, including those caused by
hurricanes or other natural forces; environmental matters; returns on employee
benefit plan assets and changes in the discount rates used to estimate employee
benefit liabilities; changes in the medical cost trend rate; changes in
accounting principles or new accounting standards; political instability or
adverse treatment of foreign operations in any of the significant countries in
which we operate; war, terrorism or sabotage; epidemics; and other unforeseen
circumstances.

Unless indicated otherwise, the terms "Cytec", "the Company", "we", "us", and
"our" each refer collectively to Cytec Industries Inc. and its subsidiaries.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We maintain a website that contains various information on our Company and
products. It is accessible at www.Cytec.com. Through our website, stockholders
and the general public may access free of charge (other than any connection
charges from internet service providers) filings we make with the Securities and
Exchange Commission as soon as practicable after filing. Filing accessibility in
this manner includes the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.



                                      -3-
<PAGE>




                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

We are a global specialty chemicals and materials company focused on developing,
manufacturing and selling value-added products. Our products serve a diverse
range of end markets including aerospace, adhesives, automotive and industrial
coatings, chemical intermediates, inks, mining, plastics and water treatment. We
use our technology and application development expertise to create chemical and
material solutions that are formulated to perform specific and important
functions for our customers. We operate on a global basis with 40% of our 2005
revenues in North America, 40% in Europe, 14% in Asia-Pacific and 6% in Latin
America. We have manufacturing and research facilities located in 20 countries.
We had net sales of $2,925.7 million and earnings from operations of $160.5
million in 2005. Cytec was incorporated as an independent public company in
December 1993.

On February 28, 2005, we completed the acquisition of the Surface Specialties
business ("Surface Specialties") of UCB SA ("UCB") for cash and stock valued at
approximately $1,774.3 million, net of working capital adjustments of $25.4
million. In connection with the acquisition, we also incurred transaction costs
of approximately $14.9 million. This acquisition complemented our existing
product offering to the coatings industry including the general industrial,
automotive, architectural, plastic, ink and wood sectors.

The Surface Specialties business had revenues of approximately $1,350 million in
2004 which included approximately $154 million of sales from the Surface
Specialties amino resins ("SSAR") product line. Pursuant to regulatory
approvals, we were required to divest SSAR. On August 31, 2005, we sold SSAR to
affiliates of INEOS Group Limited for cash consideration of $76.6 million
((euro)62.7 million at $1.22 per euro). This completed our commitments under
orders from the Federal Trade Commission and the European Community to divest
SSAR following our acquisition of the Surface Specialties business.

After giving effect to the acquisition and a subsequent reorganization, we
realigned our four business segments to include: Cytec Performance Chemicals,
Cytec Surface Specialties, Cytec Engineered Materials and Building Block
Chemicals. Cytec Performance Chemicals and Cytec Surface Specialties are managed
under one executive leader, and are referred to collectively as Cytec Specialty
Chemicals. Cytec Performance Chemicals includes our water treatment chemicals,
mining chemicals, phosphine and phosphorous specialties, polymer additives and
specialty additives all of which were previously reported as Cytec Performance
Specialties, as well as urethanes and the acquired polyurethanes and pressure
sensitive adhesives product lines which were were previously included in Cytec
Surface Specialties. Cytec Surface Specialties includes radiation-cured resins
(Radcure resins), powder coating resins and liquid coating resins which include
various product lines such as water-borne resins and solvent based resins. Cytec
Engineered Materials principally includes advanced composites and structural
film adhesives. Building Block Chemicals principally includes acrylonitrile,
hydrocyanic acid, acrylamide, sulfuric acid and melamine.

Our corporate vision is to be a premier specialty chemicals and materials
company through customer focus, superior technology, operational excellence and
employee commitment. To achieve our corporate vision, our strategy includes the
following initiatives:

     o    Focus on developing applications and solutions that meet customer
          needs. We seek to collaborate closely with our customers to understand
          their needs and provide them with a superior value proposition,
          whether through improvement in product quality, reduced part cost or a
          new enabling technology. We seek to market our specialty products in
          terms of the value they provide and focus on delivering a high level
          of technical service to our customers as we work with them on solving
          problems and providing them with better products for their
          applications. For example, our liquid coating resins technologies
          benefit customers by delivering valuable performance properties while
          helping them meet evolving environmental standards, including reducing
          or eliminating the need for solvents and other volatile organic
          compounds.

     o    Technology leadership. We are dedicated to creating a sustainable
          competitive advantage through superior technology. We believe our
          technology is the ultimate engine of our growth and success. To that
          end we focus on our new product pipeline and delivering value-added
          products to our customers every year. For example, we have continued
          to invest in the Cytec Engineered Materials segment by recruiting
          technical service as well as Research and Development personnel to
          take advantage of the growing potential for new applications for our
          technology. Our technology leadership position resulted in one of our
          high temperature resins systems being used in the F-35 Joint Strike
          Fighter program. Additionally, within the Cytec Surface Specialties
          segment, we are developing hybrid resins, in which radiation-curable
          properties are combined with water-based or powder-based technologies,
          and in more complex application, such as coil coating, automotive
          repair, ultraviolet inkjet printing and flat-panel displays.

                                      -4-
<PAGE>

     o    Seek geographical expansion of our business. We operate on a global
          basis with manufacturing plants located in 20 countries. Our recent
          acquisition of Surface Specialties gave us local manufacturing
          operations in high growth emerging markets where we can continue to
          expand sales from existing production and add new technologies as
          markets develop. We can now service customers better in such countries
          as China, Thailand, Malaysia, Korea and Brazil.

     o    Pursue operational excellence and efficiencies. We are focused on
          operational excellence. To develop and implement best practices, we
          benchmark our performance against our competitive peer group. This has
          had a significant positive impact in terms of our safety and
          environmental performance. Manufacturing has the largest impact on our
          costs and we use various techniques to reduce our product costs by
          improving process yields, reducing batch times, increasing capacity
          and improving and/or streamlining our manufacturing processes.

On June 1, 2005, we sold our 50% ownership in CYRO Industries ("CYRO") to our
joint venture partner Degussa Specialty Polymers, an affiliate of Degussa AG,
for cash consideration of $95.0 million plus $5.4 million for working capital
adjustments. The proceeds of this transaction essentially recovered the carrying
value of our investment in CYRO. Net proceeds of the sale were used to reduce
debt incurred to fund the Surface Specialties acquisition.

In the course of our ongoing operations, we have made a number of strategic
business and product line acquisitions and dispositions. All acquisitions have
been recorded using the purchase method of accounting. Accordingly, the results
of operations of the acquired companies have been included in our consolidated
results from the dates of the respective acquisitions.

Our management team regularly reviews our product line portfolio in terms of
strategic fit and capital allocation based on financial performance which
includes factors such as growth, profitability and return on invested capital.
From time to time, we may also dispose of or withdraw certain product lines. We
may also acquire additional product lines or technologies. We conduct regular
reviews of our plant sites' cost effectiveness, including individual facilities
within such sites.

SEGMENT INFORMATION

Revenues from external customers, earnings from operations and total assets for
each of our four reportable segments can be found in Note 17 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements which are incorporated by reference herein.
This information has been restated to reflect our realigned reporting segments
which were changed in March 2005 in connection with the acquisition of Surface
Specialties and then again slightly in November 2005 in connection with certain
strategic decisions made by us.

CYTEC PERFORMANCE CHEMICALS

Set forth below are our primary product lines and major products in this segment
and their principal applications.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

        PRODUCT LINE                  MAJOR PRODUCTS                PRINCIPAL APPLICATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                          <C>                              <C>
Mining chemicals             Promoters, collectors, solvent   Mineral separation and processing
                             extractants, flocculants,        for copper, alumina and certain
                             frothers, filter and dewatering  other minerals
                             aids, antiscalants, dispersants,
                             depressants, defoamers and
                             reagents

Polymer additives            Ultraviolet light stabilizers    Plastics, coatings, and fibers
                             and absorbers, high performance  for: agricultural films,
                             antioxidants and antistatic      automotive parts, architectural
                             agents                           lighting, fiberglass, housewares,
                                                              packaging, outdoor furniture,
                                                              sporting goods, toys and apparel

Adhesives                    Pressure sensitive adhesives:    Signage, labels, tapes, graphics,
                             water-borne and solvent-borne    medical and specialty coaters

Specialty additives and      Surfactants, specialty monomers, Textiles, non-wovens and
Phosphines                   acrylic stabilizers, solvent     adhesives, super absorbent
                             extractants, flame retardants,   products, mineral processing,
                             catalyst ligands, high purity    pharmaceutical, chemical and
                             phosphine gas and biocides       electronic manufacturing, and
                                                              fumigants

Specialty urethanes          Polyurethanes and urethane       Breathable textile coatings,
                             resins, carbamates and epoxy     formulated polyurethane and epoxy
                             resin systems                    systems, adhesives, inks and
                                                              sealants

Water treatment chemicals    Flocculants, coagulants, filter  Water and wastewater treatment,
                             aids, drilling fluids and        raw water clarification, process
                             production chemicals, scale      water treatment, oil field
                             inhibitors, friction reducers    drilling, production, recovery,
                             and mobility control polymers    refining, sugar processing and
                                                              municipal waste

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                              -5-
<PAGE>

We market our performance chemicals through specialized sales and technical
service staffs for each of our product lines. Sales are usually made directly to
large customers and through distributors to smaller customers. We have achieved
growth in our performance chemicals sales by finding new applications for our
existing products as well as developing new products. Certain of our products in
this segment, primarily water treatment chemicals, are manufactured using
acrylamide that is manufactured by our Building Block Chemicals segment. For
further discussion of raw materials, refer to "Customers and Suppliers."

MINING CHEMICALS

Our mining chemicals product line is primarily used in applications to separate
desired minerals from host ores. We have leading positions in the copper
processing industry, particularly in the flotation and solvent extraction of
copper. We also have a leading position in the alumina processing industry,
where our patented HxPAMs are particularly effective at the flocculation of "red
mud." We also sell phosphine specialty reagents which have leading positions in
cobalt-nickel solvent extraction separation and complex sulfide flotation
applications. In 2003, we broadened our mining chemicals product line by
acquiring from Avecia its metal extractant product ("MEP") line. The MEP product
line has a leading position for solvent extraction processing of copper oxide
ores. In late 2005, we completed a capital project to increase our MEP capacity
by about 50%. Demand for mining chemicals is cyclical and varies with industry
conditions such as global demand, inventory levels and prices for the particular
minerals with respect to which our products have processing applications. We
strive to develop new technologies as well as new formulations tailored for
specific applications.

POLYMER ADDITIVES

We are a global supplier to the plastics industry of specialty additives which
protect plastics from the ultraviolet radiation of sunlight and from oxidation.
We seek to enhance our position with new products based on proprietary
chemistries, such as our proprietary technology for CYASORB THT ultraviolet
stabilizer, and our solutions-based technical support. CYASORB THT provides much
improved ultraviolet stabilization efficiency and cost effectiveness. In certain
cases, we use a combination of additives to achieve a level of efficiency not
previously achieved in polymer applications.

ADHESIVES

As part of our acquisition of Surface Specialties, we acquired specialty
pressure sensitive adhesives for both water- and solvent-based systems. The
product line has numerous formulations featuring innovative products, such as
high-performance emulsions and removable adhesives.


                                      -6-
<PAGE>



SPECIALTY ADDITIVES AND PHOSPHINES

We are a leading global supplier of acrylamide based specialty monomers and
sulfosuccinate surfactants. These products are used in emulsion polymers,
paints, paper coatings, printing inks, and other diverse customer applications.

Our phosphine specialties are utilized for a variety of applications. We are a
leading supplier of ultra-high purity phosphine gas, used in semiconductor
manufacturing and light emitting diode applications, and have significant
positions in various phosphine derivative products including phosphonium salts
used in pharmaceutical catalysts and biocides. In 2003, we acquired from Avecia
its organo phosphorus product line as part of its Intermediates and Stabilizers
product line. The compounds are used primarily as intermediates and catalyst
ligands for organic and chemical synthesis in the pharmaceutical and chemical
industries.

SPECIALTY URETHANES

As part of our acquisition of Surface Specialties, we acquired a specialty line
of polyurethane resins and systems. This plus our existing line of urethanes,
carbamates and epoxy resin systems are used in high-performance applications in
industries such as aerospace, automotive, military, computers, biomedical,
textiles and electrical / electronics.

WATER TREATMENT CHEMICALS

Our water treatment chemicals product line consists primarily of products for
use in applications such as treatment of industrial waste streams and industrial
influent water supplies to remove suspended solids, drilling mud conditioners
for oil service companies and as sewage conditioners for municipal wastewater
treatment. Increased demand for clean water, environmental regulations and
regional and global economic development have increased demand for our water
treatment chemicals. We also produce paper chemicals under a long-term
manufacturing supply agreement that expires in October 2008.

CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES

Set forth below are our primary product lines and major products in this segment
and their principal applications.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       PRODUCT LINE                   MAJOR PRODUCTS                          PRINCIPAL APPLICATIONS
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                        <C>                                   <C>
Liquid coating resins     Water-borne and solvent-borne         Automotive and industrial coatings for appliances,
                          epoxies, alkyds and acrylics,         automobiles, containers, metal fixtures, metal and
                          cathodic electro-deposition resins,   wood furniture, and heavy-duty industrial
                          phenolic resins, amino resins and     machinery, architectural applications, products
                          additives                             used in textiles coating, abrasives, tires,
                                                                electronics, marine, sanitary and swimming pools

Powder coating resins     Ultraviolet and conventional powders  Powder coatings for industrial and heavy duty
                                                                metal applications, appliance, white goods,
                                                                architecture and wood

Radcure resins            Oligomers, photo-initiators,          Coatings and inks used in industrial metal, wood and plastic
                          monomers                              coatings including parquet, safety glass interlayer,
                                                                printing inks and varnishes
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

We market our surface spec chemicals through specialized sales and
technical service staffs for each of our product lines. Sales are typically made
directly to large customers and through distributors to smaller customers.
Certain of our products, primarily amino resins, in this segment are
manufactured using melamine that is manufactured by our Building Block Chemicals
segment. For further discussion of raw materials, refer to "Customers and
Suppliers."

LIQUID COATING RESINS

As part of our acquisition of Surface Specialties, we acquired a broad range of
water-borne and solvent-borne resins. Together with our amino resins product
line, we are now a market leader in resins for high-solids and water-borne
coating systems. Our extensive portfolio includes products based on seven
chemistries: acrylics, amino resins, epoxy systems, alkyds and polyesters,
polyurethanes, phenolics and unsaturated polyesters.


                                      -7-
<PAGE>

We also market a broad range of additives to assist customers in formulating
high-performance coatings for protective and decorative applications. Along with
individual additives, we have developed formulated products that combine
multiple additives to achieve specific performance properties targeted to meet
the needs of diverse industries.

POWDER COATING RESINS

As part of our acquisition of Surface Specialties, we acquired pioneering
polyester powder resin technologies for the rapidly growing market for powder
coatings. Today, these coatings which are considered environmentally friendly
account for a significant portion of the industrial finishing market. We offer
innovations such as powder resins for super durable clearcoats,
weather-resistant finishes and ultraviolet-curing powder coating systems for
heat-sensitive substrates such as plastic and wood. These powder coatings
provide original equipment manufacturers with a number of cost and environmental
benefits compared to traditional coating systems.

RADCURE RESINS

We are a leading producer of environmentally friendly, radiation-cured resins
for high-performance coatings and graphics applications which we acquired as
part of our acquisition of Surface Specialties. These resins are cured (dried
and hardened) by exposing them to ultraviolet or electron-beam radiation, rather
than heat which typically reduces processing costs and increases productivity.
Products such as inks, compact discs, credit cards, packaging and coatings for
wood products utilize advanced resins like the ones we have developed.

CYTEC ENGINEERED MATERIALS

Our Cytec Engineered Materials segment primarily manufactures and sells
aerospace materials that are used mainly in commercial and military aviation,
satellite and launch vehicles, aircraft brakes and certain high-performance
applications such as Formula 1 racing cars and high-performance sports cars.

CYTEC ENGINEERED MATERIALS

We manufacture and sell advanced structural film adhesives and advanced
composite materials primarily to the aerospace industry and other high
performance specialty applications. The primary applications for both aerospace
adhesives and advanced composites are large commercial airliners, regional and
business jets, military aircraft (including rotorcraft, satellites and launch
vehicles), high-performance automotive and specialty applications.

Advanced composites are exceptionally strong and lightweight materials
manufactured by impregnating fabrics and tapes made from high performance fibers
(such as carbon fiber) with epoxy, bismaleimide, phenolic, polyimide and other
resins formulated or purchased by us.

Sales are dependent to a large degree on the commercial and military aircraft
build-rates and the number of applications and aircraft programs for which we
are a qualified supplier. Every major commercial aircraft program in the Western
world has qualified and uses certain of our products. We are a major supplier to
such military programs as the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the F/A-22 and F/A-18
combat aircraft and the C-17 transport aircraft. We have a number of long term
agreements, expiring over various periods, to supply aerospace customers with
their requirements, subject to various exceptions, of various specialty
materials at prices that are generally fixed by year.

Advanced composites generally account for a higher percentage of the structural
weight on a military aircraft than on a commercial aircraft. They also account
for a higher percentage of the structural weight on newer design commercial
aircraft than older design commercial aircraft as technology progresses and
manufacturers design planes to achieve greater fuel efficiency. Advanced
composites made from carbon fibers and epoxy or bismaleimide resins are
primarily used for structural aircraft applications such as wing, tail and
rudder components, engine housings, and fuselage components while advanced
composites made from fiberglass or aramid materials and phenolic resins are
primarily used for secondary structure applications such as fairings and
interior aircraft applications such as sidewall, ceiling and floor panels and
storage and cargo bins. In addition, our ablatives are used in manufacturing
rocket nozzles and our carbon/carbon products are used in manufacturing aircraft
and other high performance brakes. We expect the demand for advanced composites
to continue to increase. In order to meet this demand, in 2004 we completed an
expansion of our production facility in Oestringen, Germany.

Our aerospace adhesives and advanced composites also have various applications
in industrial, high performance automotive and selected recreational products.
We are seeking to leverage our engineered materials portfolio with customers in
these and other new markets where we can add value.

                                      -8-
<PAGE>

We purchase from third parties all of the aramid and glass fibers and much of
the carbon fibers and base resins used in the manufacture of composites.
Approximately 35% of our demand for carbon fibers is sourced from Cytec Carbon
Fibers as discussed below. Refer to "Customers and Suppliers."

We market aerospace materials primarily through a dedicated sales and technical
service staff typically direct to customers.

CYTEC CARBON FIBERS

We manufacture and sell various high-performance grades of both
polyacrylonitrile ("PAN") type and pitch type carbon fibers. Carbon fibers are
mainly used as a reinforcement material for advanced composites used in the
aerospace and certain other industries and have many advantageous
characteristics such as light weight, high tensile strength and strong heat
resistance. Approximately 60% of our carbon fiber production is utilized by
Cytec Engineered Materials with the balance being sold to third parties. We have
recently commenced a project to increase our production of PAN carbon fiber by
approximately 25%. This project is expected to be completed by the third quarter
of 2006.

BUILDING BLOCK CHEMICALS

Building Block Chemicals are manufactured primarily at our world-scale, highly
integrated Fortier facility. The Fortier facility is located on the bank of the
Mississippi River near New Orleans, Louisiana and has access to all major forms
of transportation and supplies of raw materials. This segment's product line
includes acrylonitrile, hydrocyanic acid, acrylamide, sulfuric acid and melamine
that are produced both for use internally within our other segments and for
merchant sale. We strive to operate our plants at capacity subject to market
conditions and raw material availability. Due to hurricane activity in the Gulf
region, our Fortier facility experienced reduced production levels during the
third quarter of 2005. This reduction in production level was primarily due to
our decision to safely shut down the facility in advance of the hurricanes and
the subsequent temporary loss of power and natural gas supply.

MELAMINE

American Melamine Industries ("AMEL"), a 50% owned manufacturing joint venture
with a subsidiary of DSM N.V. ("DSM"), operates the melamine manufacturing plant
with an annual production capacity of approximately 160 million pounds at our
Fortier facility. We typically use approximately 80% to 90% of our 50% share of
AMEL's production, primarily for the production of amino resins for our liquid
coating resins product line with the balance being sold to third parties. As
allowed by the terms of the joint venture agreement, DSM has given us notice of
termination of the joint venture effective August 1, 2007 and has nominated zero
output from AMEL during the first two months of 2006 citing high raw material
input costs, notably those impacted by North American natural gas pricing. DSM
has stated their intent to monitor raw material pricing in North America and
possibly resume production when economically attractive. We have served notice
to AMEL to operate the melamine plant to produce our half of the output
capacity. If DSM takes zero output from AMEL throughout 2006, we estimate that
it will have a negative economic impact to Cytec of approximately $5.0 million
due to the loss of certain efficiencies that accompany the plant when it
operates at capacity. DSM filed a lawsuit against us in 2006 seeking immediate
dissolution of AMEL or the appointment of a receiver for AMEL, the rescission of
the services agreement between Cytec and AMEL and compensatory damages. We
believe the lawsuit is without merit and we are vigorously defending against all
of the claims.

 ACRYLONITRILE AND HYDROCYANIC ACID

We anticipate that over the near term we will internally use approximately 30%
of our current acrylonitrile production to produce acrylamide. We expect to sell
up to approximately 40% of our current acrylonitrile production to an
international trading company under a long-term distribution agreement at a
market based price. We sell hydrocyanic acid, a co-product of the manufacture of
acrylonitrile, under a long-term supply agreement to a tenant at our Fortier
site.

OTHER BUILDING BLOCK CHEMICALS

We manufacture and sell acrylamide and sulfuric acid. We anticipate that over
the near term we will internally use approximately 40% of our acrylamide
production capacity for the production of certain products primarily for our
Cytec Performance Chemicals segment with the balance being sold to third
parties. We sell sulfuric acid and regenerated sulfuric acid under a long-term
supply agreement to a tenant at our Fortier site and sell sulfuric acid in the
merchant marketplace.

Prices of Building Block Chemicals are sensitive to the stages of economic
cycles, raw material cost and availability, energy prices and currency rates, as
well as to periods of insufficient or excess capacity. Building Block Chemicals
and its competitors tend to operate their plants at capacity even in poor market
environments, which may result in strong downward pressure on product pricing.


                                      -9-
<PAGE>

We sell Building Block Chemicals to third parties through a direct sales force
and distributors.

ASSOCIATED COMPANY AND MINORITY INTERESTS

Through May 31, 2005, we had one associated company that was material to our
operations, CYRO Industries ("CYRO"), a 50% owned joint venture. Upon
acquisition of Surface Specialties, we acquired a 50% ownership interest in SK
Cytec Co., Ltd. and two majority-owned entities, none of which are material to
the results of our operations.

COMPETITION

We actively compete with companies producing the same or similar products and,
in some instances, with companies producing different products designed for the
same uses. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance,
product innovation and product recognition and quality, depending on the product
involved. For some of our products, our competitors are larger and have greater
financial resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be better
able to withstand a change in conditions within the industries in which we
operate, a change in the prices of raw materials without increasing their prices
or a change in the economy as a whole.

Our competitors can be expected to continue to develop and introduce new and
enhanced products, which could cause a decline in market acceptance of our
products. Current and future consolidation among our competitors and customers
may also cause a loss of market share as well as put downward pressure on
pricing. Our competitors could cause a reduction in the prices for some of our
products as a result of intensified price competition. Competitive pressures can
also result in the loss of major customers.

In general, we compete by maintaining a broad range of products, focusing our
resources on products in which we have a competitive advantage and fostering our
reputation for quality products, competitive prices and excellent technical
service and customer support. To help increase sales and margins, we are seeking
to leverage our research and development efforts to develop value-added products
and products based on proprietary technologies. If we cannot compete
successfully, our businesses, financial condition and results of operations
could be adversely affected.

CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS

Sales to three of our customers, including sales to these customers'
subcontractors, are significant to our Cytec Engineered Materials segment. The
loss of these customers and related subcontractors would have a material adverse
effect on the operating results of our Cytec Engineered Materials segment. Sales
of hydrocyanic acid and the sale and regeneration of sulfuric acid to one of our
customers are significant to our Building Block Chemicals segment. The loss of
this customer would have a material adverse effect on the operating results of
our Building Blocks Chemicals segment. Sales to one customer of our Cytec
Surface Specialties segment are significant to this segment and, if such sales
were lost, would have a material adverse effect on the operating results of our
Cytec Surface Specialties segment. A summary of various long-term customer
supply agreements is disclosed in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements which are incorporated by reference herein.

A number of our customers operate in cyclical industries such as the aerospace,
automotive, mining and paper industries. This in turn, causes demand for our
products to also be cyclical. Industry cycles also impact profitability of our
Building Block Chemicals' sales.

Key raw materials for the Cytec Specialty Chemical segments and the Building
Block Chemicals segment are propylene, ammonia, methanol derivatives, propylene
derivatives such as acrylic acid and natural gas for energy. Key raw materials
for the Cytec Engineered Materials segment are carbon fiber and various resins.
We require natural gas, propylene, ammonia and sulfur to manufacture our
Building Block Chemicals. These are typically available although we have
experienced tight markets for certain raw materials from time to time.

Oil and natural gas are important indirect raw materials for many of our
products. The prices of both of these raw materials have been volatile over time
and have risen sharply in 2005. Because natural gas is not easily transported,
the price may vary widely between geographic regions. The price of natural gas
in the U.S. is typically higher than the price in many other parts of the world.
Many of our products compete with similar products made with less expensive
natural gas available elsewhere and we may not be able to recover any or all of
the increased cost of gas in manufacturing our products.


                                      -10-
<PAGE>

Our Fortier facility is served principally by a single propylene pipeline owned
by a supplier. Other suppliers can utilize the pipeline for a transportation
fee. We also have arrangements to obtain propylene by rail.

To minimize reliance on any one supplier, we generally attempt to retain
multiple sources for high volume raw materials, other than our own Building
Block Chemicals. We source our requirements of cationic monomers, important raw
materials in the water treatment chemicals and mining chemicals product lines,
from a single supplier under a long-term agreement. We are dependent on a
limited number of suppliers for carbon fibers that are used in many of our
advanced composite products. As we manufacture some of our own carbon fibers,
the risk of future carbon fiber supply limitations is somewhat reduced.
Currently carbon fiber is in short supply and until market capacity increases,
shortages are possible. There can be no assurance that the risk of encountering
supply limitations can be entirely eliminated.

Changes to raw material costs year on year are an important factor in
profitability. Raw material prices can increase or decrease based on supply and
demand and other market forces. We have from time to time experienced difficulty
procuring several key raw materials, such as propylene, natural gas and carbon
fiber, due to general market conditions or conditions unique to a significant
supplier and may experience supply disruptions of these and other materials in
the future. During such periods, prices of the relevant raw materials may
increase significantly and potentially adversely affect our profit margins.
Additionally, such conditions, if protracted, could result in our inability to
manufacture our products, resulting in lower than anticipated revenues. Due to
the impact of both Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita, there was a regional
disruption in the supply of natural gas.

We expect to continue to encounter tight markets for certain key raw materials
during 2006. Limited availability of these materials could lead to increased
prices which we may or may not be able to pass on to our customers. If we are
unable to raise our selling prices to recover the increased costs of raw
materials driven by higher energy costs or other factors, our profit margins
will be materially adversely affected.

INTERNATIONAL

We operate on a global basis, with manufacturing and research facilities located
in 20 countries. Through our sales forces, third party distributors and agents,
we market our products internationally. Financial geographical information is
contained in Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are
incorporated by reference herein.

International operations are subject to various risks which may not be present
in U.S. operations. These risks include political instability, the possibility
of expropriation, restrictions on royalties, dividends and remittances,
instabilities of currencies, requirements for governmental approvals for new
ventures and local participation in operations such as local equity ownership
and workers' councils. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the
currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause
foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which may be material. While we
do not currently believe that we are likely to suffer a material adverse effect
on our results of operations in connection with our existing international
operations, any of these events could have an adverse effect on our
international operations in the future by reducing the demand for our products,
affecting the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise having an
adverse effect on our operating performance.

RESEARCH AND PROCESS DEVELOPMENT

During 2005, 2004 and 2003, we incurred $68.5 million, $40.0 million and $35.2
million, respectively, of research and process development expense. During 2005,
we also recorded a charge of $37.0 million in connection with the acquisition of
Surface Specialties for the write-off of acquired in-process research and
development.

TRADEMARKS AND PATENTS

We have approximately 2,100 patents issued in various countries around the
world. We also have trademark applications and registrations for approximately
200 product names. We do not believe that the loss of patent or trademark
protection on any one product or process would have a material adverse effect on
our company. While the existence of a patent is prima facie evidence of its
validity, we cannot assure that any of our patents will not be challenged, nor
can we predict the outcome of any challenge.

EMPLOYEES

We employ approximately 7,300 employees of which about one-half are represented
by unions. We believe that our relations with employees and unions are generally
good.

                                      -11-
<PAGE>

OPERATING RISKS

Our revenues are largely dependent on the continued operation of our various
manufacturing facilities. There are many risks involved in operating chemical
manufacturing plants, including the breakdown, failure or substandard
performance of equipment, operating errors, natural disasters, the need to
comply with directives of, and maintain all necessary permits from, government
agencies and potential terrorist attack. Our operations can be adversely
affected by labor force shortages or work stoppages and events impeding or
increasing the cost of transporting our raw materials and finished products. The
occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the
above events, may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and
profitability of a particular manufacturing facility. With respect to certain
facilities, such events could have a material effect on our company as a whole.

Our operations are also subject to various hazards incident to the production of
industrial chemicals. These include the use, handling, processing, storage and
transportation of certain hazardous materials. Under certain circumstances,
these hazards could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and
destruction of property and equipment, environmental damage and suspension of
operations. Claims arising from any future catastrophic occurrence at one of our
locations may result in Cytec being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting
potentially large claims.

We typically seek to utilize third party insurance. This insurance covers
portions of certain of these risks to the extent that coverage is available and
can be obtained on terms we believe are economically justifiable.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

We are subject to various laws and regulations which impose stringent
requirements for the control and abatement of pollutants and contaminants and
the manufacture, transportation, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous
substances, hazardous wastes, pollutants and contaminants.

In particular, under various laws in the U.S. and certain other countries in
which we operate, a current or previous owner or operator of a facility may be
liable for the removal or remediation of hazardous materials at the facility and
nearby areas. Such laws typically impose liability without regard to whether the
owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such
hazardous materials. In addition, under various laws governing the generation,
transportation, treatment, storage or disposal of solid and hazardous wastes,
owners and operators of facilities may be liable for removal or remediation, or
other corrective action at areas where hazardous materials have been released.
The costs of removal, remediation or corrective action may be substantial. The
presence of hazardous materials in the environment at any our facilities, or the
failure to abate such materials promptly or properly, may adversely affect our
ability to operate such facilities. Certain of these laws also impose liability
for investigative, removal and remedial costs on persons who dispose of or
arrange for the disposal of hazardous substances at facilities owned or operated
by third parties. Liability for such costs is retroactive, strict, and joint and
several.

We are required to comply with laws that govern the emission of pollutants into
the ground, waters and the atmosphere and with laws that govern the generation,
transportation, treatment, storage, and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes.
We are also subject to laws that regulate the manufacture, processing, and
distribution of chemical substances and mixtures, as well as the disposition of
certain hazardous substances. In addition, certain laws govern the abatement,
removal, and disposal of asbestos-containing materials and the maintenance of
underground storage tanks and equipment which contains or is contaminated by
polychlorinated biphenyls. The costs of compliance with such laws and related
regulations may be substantial, and regulatory standards tend to evolve towards
more stringent requirements. These requirements might, from time to time, make
it uneconomic or impossible to continue operating a facility. Non-compliance
with such requirements at any of our facilities could result in substantial
civil penalties or our inability to operate all or part of the facility, or our
ability to sell certain products.

Further discussion of environmental matters is discussed in Note 11 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements which are incorporated by reference herein.


                                      -12-
<PAGE>




ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

OUR INDEBTEDNESS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIMIT OUR
ABILITY TO GROW AND COMPETE AND PREVENT US FROM FULFILLING OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER
OUR NOTES AND OUR OTHER INDEBTEDNESS.

As of December 31, 2005, we had $1,311.0 million of debt outstanding, and $350.0
million of availability under our five year revolving credit agreement. Our
indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, limit our ability
to grow and compete and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our
notes and our other indebtedness. A discussion of our debt is contained in Note
10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are incorporated
herein.

We consider our principal credit agreements ("PCA's") to be our five-year term
loan ($461.2 million outstanding at December 31, 2005) and $350.0 million
five-year revolving credit facilities (zero amount outstanding at December 31,
2005). Our PCA's require us to meet financial ratios, including total
consolidated debt to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreements)
and consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreements) to interest
expense. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to
market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs and could otherwise
restrict our financing activities.

Our ability to comply with the covenants as in effect from time to time, will
depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with those
covenants and terms, we will be in default. In this case, we would be required
to obtain waivers from our lenders in order to maintain compliance. If we were
unable to obtain any necessary waivers, the debt under our PCA credit facilities
could be accelerated, and become immediately due and payable. In addition, both
of our PCA's have a cross default provision whereby amounts outstanding could
become due and payable if we default on other debt obligations of at least $25.0
million.

WE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF OUR DEBT IS DOWNGRADED.
Our ability to complete financing of debt securities on satisfactory terms in
the future will depend, in part, on the status of our future credit ratings. The
current ratings of our senior unsecured long-term indebtedness are BBB- by
Standard & Poor's Ratings Service ("S&P") and Baa3 by Moody's Investors Service,
Inc. ("Moody's"). Either S&P or Moody's, or both, may downgrade our credit
rating at any time, which would make it more difficult to complete financing of
debt securities on satisfactory terms and would generally result in increased
future borrowing costs and more restrictive covenants and may adversely affect
our access to capital. In addition, such a downgrade from current levels would
trigger a requirement, under the terms of our PCA's, for specified subsidiaries
in the U.S. to guarantee the obligations under our PCA's.

WE MAY ENCOUNTER DIFFICULTIES IN COMPLETING THE INTEGRATION OF SURFACE
SPECIALTIES AND OPERATING THE ACQUIRED BUSINESS WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OR OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY IN OUR MARKETS.

Integrating and operating the acquired businesses, and achieving the full
benefit and potential efficiencies from such acquisitions,  requires substantial
management,  financial and other  resources and may pose several risks,  some or
all of which could have a material  adverse  effect on our  business,  financial
condition or results of operations. These risks include:

     o    difficulties in assimilation of acquired personnel, operations and
          technologies;
     o    the need to manage a significantly larger business with operations in
          different locations around the world;
     o    diversion of management's attention from the ongoing development of
          our existing businesses or other business concerns;
     o    failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business; and
     o    unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures.

If we experience any of these difficulties our financial performance and ability
to compete successfully in any of our markets could be adversely affected.

DISPOSITION OR RESTRUCTURING CHARGES AND GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT OR ACQUISITION
INTANGIBLE IMPAIRMENT OR ASSET IMPAIRMENT CHARGES MAY UNPREDICTABLY AFFECT OUR
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS IN THE FUTURE.

Management regularly reviews our business portfolio in terms of strategic fit
and financial performance and may from time to time dispose of or withdraw
certain product lines. Additionally, management regularly reviews the cost
effectiveness of its plant sites and/or asset at such sites. Long-lived assets
with determinable useful lives are reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not
be recoverable. We may find it necessary to record disposition, restructuring or
asset impairment charges in connection with such reviews. For example, we
recorded restructuring charges of $14.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations
in the period in which they are recorded. Another example is an event such as
the notice of termination by DSM of our manufacturing joint venture at the end
of its term on August 1, 2007. We are reviewing our go-forward options at the
end of the venture, and depending on various factors and assumptions such as
market demand and raw material costs it could lead to the recording of an
impairment charge related to the recoverability of the AMEL long-lived assets.
At December 31, 2005, the carrying value of our 50% share of AMEL's long-lived
assets was approximately $l5.0 million. Based on our current plans, the
estimated future cash flows are sufficient to support the carrying value of
these assets. For further discussion of AMEL, see "Building Block Chemicals
Segment, MELAMINE."


                                      -13-
<PAGE>

We test goodwill and indefinite-lived acquisition intangible assets for
impairment on an annual basis in our fourth fiscal quarter and more often if
events occur or circumstances change that would likely reduce the fair value of
a reporting unit to an amount below its carrying value. We also test for other
possible acquisition intangible impairments if events occur or circumstances
change that would likely reduce the fair value of the stated assets.

In connection with the acquisition of Surface Specialties, we recorded goodwill
in the amount of $728.3 million and recorded acquisition intangibles of $490.4
million at December 31, 2005. In total, we had $1,012.2 million of goodwill, and
acquisition intangibles with a net carrying value of $491.5 million at December
31, 2005. Future events could cause the impairment of goodwill or acquisition
intangibles associated with the Surface Specialties business or any other of our
reporting units. Any resulting impairment loss would be a non-cash charge and
may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in any future
period in which we record a charge.

PRICES AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS.

See "Item 1. BUSINESS - Customers and Suppliers."

WE FACE ACTIVE COMPETITION FROM OTHER COMPANIES, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT
OUR REVENUE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

See "Item 1. BUSINESS - Competition."

WE FACE NUMEROUS RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS THAT MAY
ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

See "Item 1. BUSINESS - International."

OUR PRODUCTION FACILITIES ARE SUBJECT TO OPERATING RISKS THAT MAY ADVERSELY
AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS.

See "Item 1. BUSINESS - Operating Risks."

WE ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL AND PRODUCT REGULATORY EXPENSES AND
RISKS.

See "Item 1. BUSINESS - Environmental Matters."

SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS' BUSINESSES ARE CYCLICAL AND DEMAND BY OUR CUSTOMERS FOR
OUR PRODUCTS WEAKENS DURING ECONOMIC DOWNTURNS. LOSS OF SIGNIFICANT CUSTOMERS
MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS.

See "Item 1. BUSINESS - Customers and Suppliers."

WE ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT LITIGATION EXPENSE AND RISK.

See "Item 1. LEGAL PROCEDINGS."

ITEM 1B.       UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.



                                      -14-
<PAGE>




ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

We operate manufacturing and research facilities in 20 countries. Capital
spending for the years ended 2005, 2004 and 2003 was $105.3 million, $89.3
million and $93.8 million, respectively.

Our capital expenditures are intended to provide increased capacity, to improve
the efficiency of production units, to improve the quality of our products, to
modernize or replace older facilities, or to install equipment for protection of
employees, neighboring communities and the environment.

Our manufacturing and research facilities and the segments served by each such
facility are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FACILITY                                              SEGMENTS SERVED
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                   <C>
Anaheim, California                                    Cytec Engineered Materials
Antofogasta, Chile                                     Cytec Performance Chemicals
Atequiza, Mexico                                       Cytec Performance Chemicals
Avondale (Fortier), Louisiana                          Building Block Chemicals
Bassano, Italy                                         Cytec Surface Specialties
Belmont (Willow Island), West Virginia                 Cytec Performance Chemicals
Bogota, Colombia                                       Cytec Performance Chemicals; Cytec Surface Specialties
Botlek, the Netherlands                                Cytec Performance Chemicals; Cytec Surface Specialties;
                                                            Building Block Chemicals
Bradford, U.K.                                         Cytec Performance Chemicals
Dijon, France                                          Cytec Surface Specialties
Drogenbos, Belgium                                     Cytec Performance Chemicals; Cytec Surface Specialties
Graz, Austria                                          Cytec Surface Specialties
Greenville, South Carolina                             Cytec Engineered Materials
Greenville, Texas                                      Cytec Engineered Materials
Gumi, Korea                                            Cytec Performance Chemicals
Hamburg, Germany                                       Cytec Surface Specialties
Havre de Grace, Maryland                               Cytec Engineered Materials
Indian Orchard, Massachusetts                          Cytec Performance Chemicals
Kalamazoo, Michigan                                    Cytec Performance Chemicals; Cytec Surface Specialties
La Llagosta, Spain                                     Cytec Surface Specialties
Langley, South Carolina                                Cytec Performance Chemicals; Cytec Surface Specialties
Lillestrom, Norway                                     Cytec Surface Specialties
Longview, Washington                                   Cytec Performance Chemicals
Mobile, Alabama                                        Cytec Performance Chemicals
Mount Pleasant, Tennessee                              Cytec Performance Chemicals
New Castle, Delaware                                   Cytec Performance Chemicals
North Augusta, South Carolina                          Cytec Surface Specialties
Oestringen, Germany                                    Cytec Engineered Materials
Olean, New York                                        Cytec Performance Chemicals
Orange, California                                     Cytec Engineered Materials
Pampa, Texas                                           Cytec Surface Specialties
Rayong, Thailand                                       Cytec Surface Specialties
Rock Hill, South Carolina                              Cytec Engineered Materials
San Fernando, Spain                                    Cytec Surface Specialties
Schoonaarde, Belgium                                   Cytec Surface Specialties
Seremban, Malaysia                                     Cytec Surface Specialties
Shanghai, China                                        Cytec Surface Specialties
Shimonoseki, Japan                                     Cytec Surface Specialties
Smyrna, Georgia                                        Cytec Surface Specialties
Stamford, Connecticut                                  Cytec Performance Chemicals; Cytec Surface Specialties
Suzano, Brazil                                         Cytec Surface Specialties
Wallingford, Connecticut                               Cytec Performance Chemicals; Cytec Surface Specialties
Welland, Canada                                        Cytec Performance Chemicals
Werndorf, Austria                                      Cytec Surface Specialties
Wiesbaden, Germany                                     Cytec Surface Specialties
Winona, Minnesota                                      Cytec Engineered Materials
Wrexham, U. K.                                         Cytec Engineered Materials
</TABLE>


                                      -15-
<PAGE>

We own all of the foregoing facilities and their sites except for the land at
the Botlek, Indian Orchard, Lillestrom, New Castle, Pampa, Smyrna and
Shimonoseki facilities. The land is leased under long-term leases, except for
the Indian Orchard, New Castle and Pampa facilities. We are currently
negotiating our leases with our landlords for the Indian Orchard and Pampa
locations, and reviewing our options regarding these sites. We plan to relocate
our New Castle, Delaware operations to the new plant we are building at our
Kalamazoo, Michigan facility. We anticipate the relocation to be complete during
the last half of 2007. We lease our corporate headquarters in West Paterson, New
Jersey, our Cytec Specialty Chemicals headquarters in Brussels, Belgium and our
Cytec Engineered Materials headquarters located in Tempe, Arizona.


                                      -16-
<PAGE>

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

We are the subject of numerous lawsuits and claims incidental to the conduct of
our or our predecessors' businesses, including lawsuits and claims relating to
product liability, personal injury, environmental, contractual, employment and
intellectual property matters. Many of the matters relate to the use, handling,
processing, storage, transport or disposal of hazardous materials. We believe
that the resolution of such lawsuits and claims, including those described
below, will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial
position, but could be material to our consolidated results of operations and
cash flows in any one accounting period. We, in this section, includes certain
predecessor entities being indemnified by us.

LEAD PIGMENT

We are among several defendants in approximately 30 cases in the U.S., in
which plaintiffs assert claims for personal injury,  property damage,  and other
claims for relief  relating to one or more kinds of lead  pigment that were used
as an ingredient decades ago in paint for use in buildings.  The different suits
were brought by government entities and/or individual  plaintiffs,  on behalf of
themselves  and others.  The suits  variously  seek  compensatory  and  punitive
damages and/or  injunctive  relief,  including funds for the cost of monitoring,
detecting  and  removing  lead  based  paint  from  buildings  and  for  medical
monitoring;  for personal  injuries  allegedly caused by ingestion of lead based
paint; and plaintiffs' attorneys' fees. We believe that the suits against us are
without  merit,  and  we are  vigorously  defending  against  all  such  claims.
Accordingly, no loss contingency has been recorded.

In July 2005, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin held in a case in which we were one
of several defendants that Wisconsin's risk contribution doctrine applies to
bodily injury cases against manufacturers of white lead pigment. Under this
doctrine, manufacturers of white lead pigment may be liable for injuries caused
by white lead pigment based on their past market shares unless they can prove
they are not responsible for the white lead pigment which caused the injury in
question. Seven other courts have previously rejected the applicability of this
and similar doctrines to white lead pigment. We settled this case for an
immaterial amount. Although similar cases may be filed in Wisconsin, we intend
to vigorously defend ourselves if such case(s) are filed based on what we
believe to be our non-existent or diminutive market share. Accordingly, we do
not believe that our liability, if any, in such cases will be material, either
individually or in the aggregate and no loss contingency has been recorded.

We have access to a substantial amount of primary and excess general liability
insurance for property damage and believe these policies are available to cover
a significant portion of both our defense costs and indemnity costs, if any, for
lead pigment related property damage claims. We have agreements with two of our
insurers which provide that they will pay for approximately fifty percent (50%)
of our defense costs associated with lead pigment related property damage claims
and we continue to pursue recovery of our past and future defense costs from
additional insurers.

ASBESTOS

We, like many other industrial companies, have been named as one of hundreds of
defendants in a number of lawsuits filed in the U.S. by persons alleging bodily
injury. The claimants allege exposure to asbestos at facilities that we either
formerly or currently own or from products that we formerly manufactured for
specialized applications. Most of these cases involve numerous defendants,
sometimes as many as several hundred. Historically, most of the closed asbestos
claims against us have been dismissed without any indemnity payment by us, and
we have no information that this pattern will change.

The following table presents information about the number of claimants involved
in asbestos cases with us:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Year Ended             Year Ended
                                                                          December 31,           December 31,
                                                                              2005                   2004
                                                                       -------------------    --------------------
<S>                                                                          <C>                    <C>
      Number of claimants at beginning of period                             27,947                  26,955
      Number of claimants associated with claims closed during period       (11,949)                 (3,540)
      Number of claimants associated with claims opened during period         2,113                   4,532
                                                                            -------                 -------
      Number of claimants at end of period                                   18,111                  27,947
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>



                                      -17-
<PAGE>




OTHER

In 2006, we were named as a defendant in a series of civil cases alleging
violation  of  antitrust  laws  relating to the sale of methyl  methacrylate,  a
chemical  manufactured and sold by CYRO, and seeking damages arising out of such
alleged  violations.  We sold our  interest  in CYRO to Degussa in 2005,  and in
accordance with the terms of the sales agreement,  we expect Degussa and CYRO to
provide us with full indemnity for any losses and expenses associated with these
cases.

In February 2006, a subsidiary of DSM filed a lawsuit against us seeking
immediate dissolution of AMEL, the melamine manufacturing joint venture between
DSM and Cytec or the appointment of a receiver for the joint venture, the
rescission of the services agreement between Cytec and AMEL and compensatory
damages. We believe this lawsuit is without merit and we are vigorously
defending against all of the claims.

We commenced binding arbitration proceedings against SNF SA ("SNF"), in 2000 to
resolve a commercial dispute relating to SNF's failure to purchase agreed
amounts of acrylamide under a long-term agreement. In July, 2004, the
arbitrators awarded us damages and interest aggregating approximately 11.0
million euros plus interest on the award at a rate of 7% per annum from July 28,
2004 until paid. We have obtained a court order in France to enforce the award,
which order is being appealed by SNF. No gain contingency has been recorded.
Subsequent to the arbitration award, SNF filed a complaint alleging criminal
violation of French and European Community antitrust laws relating to the
contract which was the subject of the arbitration proceedings. We believe that
the complaint is without merit.

In addition to liabilities with respect to the specific cases described above,
because the production of certain chemicals involves the use, handling,
processing, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous materials, and
because certain of the our products constitute or contain hazardous materials,
we have been subject to claims of injury from direct exposure to such materials
and from indirect exposure when such materials are incorporated into other
companies' products. There can be no assurance that, as a result of past or
future operations, there will not be additional claims of injury by employees or
members of the public due to exposure, or alleged exposure, to such materials.

See "Item 1. BUSINESS - Environmental Matters" and Note 11 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.


ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

 Not applicable.




                                      -18-
<PAGE>




                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND
        ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.

Our stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. On January 31, 2006, there
were approximately 8,900 registered holders of our Common Stock.

The high and low closing stock prices and declared dividends per share for each
quarter were:


                          1Q               2Q            3Q             4Q
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
2005

     High             $53.90           $52.94        $48.39         $47.64
     Low              $45.91           $39.62        $39.34         $40.98
     Dividends        $ 0.10           $ 0.10         $0.10          $0.10
2004
     High             $38.76           $45.45        $49.99         $51.73
     Low              $32.97           $35.50        $44.31         $44.92
     Dividends        $ 0.10           $ 0.10        $ 0.10         $ 0.10
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


On February 9, 2006, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend
of $0.10 per common share, payable on March 15, 2006 to stockholders of record
as of February 27, 2006.

Upon closing of our acquisition of the Surface Specialties business of UCB on
February 28, 2005, we issued 5,772,857 shares of our common stock to UCB as part
of the consideration. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. The sale was exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of
the Securities Act of 1933 since no public offering was involved. Also, upon
closing, we entered into a stockholder's agreement with UCB which provides for
UCB to reduce its stake within five years from the closing date and contains
other customary terms and provisions.

See Part III, Item 11. "Executive Compensation" for information relating to our
equity compensation plans.



                                      -19-
<PAGE>

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                2005             2004             2003             2002            2001
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Statements of income data:
<S>                                           <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>             <C>
Net sales                                     $2,925.7         $1,721.3         $1,471.8         $1,346.2        $1,387.1
Earnings from operations                       $ 160.5  (1)    $  167.7  (3)    $  144.1         $  118.4  (7)   $  111.2   (9)
Earnings before discontinued operations,
  accounting change, extraordinary
  item and premium paid to redeem
  preferred stock                             $   57.9  (2)    $  131.0  (4)    $   92.8         $   78.7  (8)   $   64.6  (10)
Earnings from discontinued operations,
  net of taxes                                     1.2                -                -                -               -
Cumulative effect of accounting change,
  net of taxes                                      --                -            (13.6)(6)            -               -
Extraordinary gain, net of taxes                    --                -                -                -             4.9
Premium paid to redeem preferred stock              --             (9.9) (5)           -                -               -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net earnings available to common stockholders $   59.1         $  121.1         $   79.2         $   78.7        $   69.5
==============================================================================================================================
Basic net earnings per common share:
Net earnings available to common
  stockholders before accounting change and
  extraordinary gain                          $   1.28         $   3.06         $   2.38         $   1.99        $   1.61
Earnings from discontinued operations,
  net of taxes                                    0.03                -                -                -               -
Cumulative effect of accounting change,
  net of taxes                                       -                -            (0.35)               -               -
Extraordinary gain, net of taxes                     -                -                -                -            0.12
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net earnings available to common stockholders $   1.31         $   3.06         $   2.03         $   1.99        $   1.73
===============================================================================================================================
Diluted net earnings per common share:
Net earnings available to common stockholders
  before accounting change and
  extraordinary gain                          $   1.25         $   2.96         $   2.31         $   1.94        $   1.55
Earnings from discontinued operations,
  net of taxes                                    0.02                -                -                -               -
Cumulative effect of accounting change,
  net of taxes                                       -                -            (0.34)               -               -
Extraordinary gain, net of taxes                     -                -                -                -        $   0.12
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net earnings available to common stockholders $   1.27         $   2.96         $   1.97         $   1.94        $   1.67
==============================================================================================================================
Cash dividends declared and paid
  per common share:                           $   0.40         $   0.40                -                -               -
Balance sheet data:
Total assets                                  $3,810.5         $2,251.6         $2,046.4         $1,785.2        $1,669.8
Long-term debt                                $1,225.5         $  300.1         $  416.2         $  216.0        $  314.7
==============================================================================================================================
</TABLE>


(1)  Includes a non-deductible charge of $37.0 for the write-off of acquired
     in-process research and development, a pre-tax charge of $20.8 ($15.4 after
     tax) resulting from the write-up to fair value of acquired inventory,
     pre-tax restructuring charges of $16.8 ($12.4 after-tax) and pre-tax
     integration costs of $0.2 ($0.1 after-tax).

(2)  In addition to the items in Note (1) above, includes pre-tax charges of
     $44.2 ($28.1 after-tax) related to derivative contracts entered into to
     hedge currency and interest rate exposure associated with the purchase of
     Surface Specialties, $22.0 ($14.0 after-tax) of interest charges and
     unamortized put premiums and rate lock agreements related to the redemption
     of the Mandatory Par Put Remarketed Securities ("MOPPRS") and $28.3
     representing the favorable resolution of several prior year tax matters.

(3)  Includes a pre-tax charge of $8.0 ($6.2 after-tax) for various litigation
     matters.

(4)  In addition to the item in Note (3) above, includes a pre-tax charge of
     $6.2 ($4.8 after-tax) relating to the settlement of several environmental
     and toxic tort lawsuits, a pre-tax charge of $2.0 (after-tax $1.6) relating
     to the settlement of disputed matters with the former holder of our Series
     C Preferred Stock, a tax credit of $2.4 resulting from the favorable
     outcome of a completed international tax audit and a pre-tax gain of $26.8
     (after-tax $17.1) resulting from derivative transactions related to the
     acquisition of Surface Specialties.

(5)  Represents a charge to net earnings available to common stockholders
     resulting from the redemption of our Series C Preferred Stock.

(6)  Represents the cumulative effect of adopting Statement of Financial
     Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 143. Pre-tax expenses resulting from SFAS
     No. 143 included in Earnings from Operations were $1.8 in 2003. Had this
     accounting policy been in effect in prior years, additional pre-tax
     expenses of $1.7 in 2002 and $1.6 in 2001 would have been recognized in the
     determination of earnings from operations.

(7)  Includes net restructuring pre-tax charges of $13.7 ($9.2 after-tax) and a
     pre-tax charge of $1.7 ($1.1 after-tax) for costs associated with obtaining
     a tax refund related to the prior years' research and development tax
     credit.

(8)  In addition to the items in Note (7) above, includes  restructuring pre-tax
     charges  of $0.4  ($0.2  after-tax)  included  in  equity  in  earnings  of
     associated  companies,  $2.0 of pre-tax  interest  income  (after tax $1.3)
     related to the research and development tax credit, and a $6.0 reduction in
     income  tax  expense  related  to a refund  associated  with  prior  years'
     research and development tax credits.

(9)  Includes a restructuring pre-tax charge of $5.4 ($3.5 after-tax) and
     pre-tax goodwill amortization of $9.7 ($6.3 after-tax) that is no longer
     amortized under SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets."

(10) In addition to the restructuring charge in note (9) above, includes a
     restructuring pre-tax charge of $2.3 ($1.5 after-tax) included in earnings
     of associated companies.


                                      -20-
<PAGE>


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
        AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements. It is assumed that the reader is familiar with the description of
our business and risk factors contained in Part I of this report. Currency
amounts are in millions, except per share amounts. Percentages are approximate.

GENERAL

We are a global specialty chemicals and materials company which sells our
products to diverse major markets for aerospace, adhesives, automotive and
industrial coatings, chemical intermediates, inks, mining, plastics and water
treatment. Sales price and volume by region and the impact of exchange rates on
our reporting segments are important measures that are analyzed by management.

In the course of our ongoing operations, a number of strategic product line
acquisitions and dispositions have been made. The results of operations of the
acquired businesses have been included in our consolidated results from the
dates of the respective acquisitions. On February 28, 2005, we acquired the
Surface Specialties business of UCB in a transaction valued at $1,799.7. After
adjusting for a final working capital adjustment of $25.4 and transaction costs
incurred of $14.9, the acquisition was valued at $1,789.2. A further discussion
of acquisitions and dispositions can be found in Note 2 to the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein.

We also report net sales in four geographic regions: North America, Latin
America, Asia/Pacific and Europe/Middle East/Africa. The destination of the sale
determines the region under which it is reported consistent with management's
view of the business. North America consists of the United States and Canada.
Latin America includes Mexico, Central America, South America and the Caribbean
Islands. Asia/Pacific is comprised of Asia, Australia and the islands of the
South Pacific Rim.

Raw material cost changes year on year are an important factor in profitability
especially in years of high volatility. Oil and natural gas costs are
significantly higher than the year ago period and many of our raw materials are
derived from these two commodities. Discussion of the year to year impact of raw
materials and energy is provided in our segment discussion. In addition, higher
global demand levels and, occasionally, operating difficulties at suppliers,
have limited the availability of certain of our raw materials. Hurricane
activity in the US Gulf region led to further increases in the cost of natural
gas and oil-related raw materials.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth the percentage relationship that certain items in
our Consolidated Statements of Income bear to net sales:

YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,                       2005        2004     2003
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales                                     100.0%      100.0%   100.0%
Manufacturing cost of sales                    79.1        75.7     75.5
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                                   20.9        24.3     24.5
Selling and technical services                  7.3         8.1      8.6
Research and process development                3.6         2.3      2.4
Administrative and general                      3.5         3.8      3.3
Amortization of acquisition intangibles         1.0         0.3      0.3
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings from operations                        5.5         9.8      9.9
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net earnings available to common stockholders   2.0         7.0      5.4
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                      -21-
<PAGE>





NET SALES BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                 EUROPE/
                                                       NORTH          LATIN         ASIA/      MIDDLE EAST/
NET SALES                                             AMERICA        AMERICA       PACIFIC        AFRICA         TOTAL
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2005
<S>                                                     <C>              <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
  Cytec Performance Chemicals                           $  340.8         $126.8       $118.5        $  269.7     $  855.8
  Cytec Surface Specialties                                329.6           50.7        202.9           660.9      1,244.1
  Cytec Engineered Materials                               349.2            1.5         30.0           160.9        541.6
  Building Block Chemicals                                 149.2            4.9         50.3            79.8        284.2
                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                               $1,168.8         $183.9       $401.7        $1,171.3     $2,925.7
                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
2004
  Cytec Performance Chemicals                           $  293.8         $104.0       $106.7        $  208.2     $  712.7
  Cytec Surface Specialties                                122.4           16.2         56.7            65.7        261.0
  Cytec Engineered Materials                               322.4            1.7         21.5           141.4        487.0
  Building Block Chemicals                                 126.6            3.3         77.0            53.7        260.6
                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                               $  865.2         $125.2       $261.9        $  469.0     $1,721.3
                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
2003
  Cytec Performance Chemicals                           $  272.5         $ 77.9       $101.3        $  171.9     $  623.6
  Cytec Surface Specialties                                120.5           13.4         36.5            58.0        228.4
  Cytec Engineered Materials                               292.3            1.6         15.5            99.3        408.7
  Building Block Chemicals                                  88.9            4.0         58.0            60.2        211.1
                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                               $  774.2         $ 96.9       $211.3        $  389.4     $1,471.8
                                                    ======================================================================
</TABLE>

Net sales in the United States were $1,095.3, $802.4 and $719.7 for 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively. International net sales were $1,830.4, $918.9, and
$752.1, or 63%, 53% and 51% of total net sales, for 2005, 2004 and 2003,
respectively.

For more information on our segments, refer to Note 17 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements and further discussions in "Segment Results,"
below.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS

Net sales for 2005 were $2,925.7 compared with $1,721.3 for 2004, up 70% of
which 62% was due to the inclusion of sales from Surface Specialties which was
acquired on February 28, 2005, selling prices increased 6%, exchange rates
increased sales 1% and selling volumes were up 1%. Cytec Performance Chemicals
experienced a net increase in sales which resulted primarily from the addition
of sales of the acquired pressure sensitive adhesives and polyurethanes product
lines of Surface Specialties as well as from selling price increases. Cytec
Surface Specialties experienced a net increase in sales which resulted primarily
from the addition of sales related to the remainder of the acquired product
lines of Surface Specialties. Cytec Engineered Materials sales increase was
primarily volume related, primarily from increased sales to the large commercial
transport and commercial rotorcraft sectors. Building Block Chemicals sales
increased from higher selling prices, while volumes decreased. Net sales and
operating results for the Building Blocks segment were significantly impacted by
the effects of hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the US gulf coast.

For a detailed discussion on revenues refer to the Segment Results section
below.

Manufacturing cost of sales was $2,313.7 compared with $1,303.1 during 2004.
This increase was primarily attributable to the following items: the inclusion
of the acquired Surface Specialties business; higher raw material and energy
costs of $98.4; a charge of $20.8 representing the excess of the fair value of
the finished goods inventory of the acquired business over normal manufacturing
cost and the direct impact from the hurricanes of $6.3 for maintenance and
repair costs, extra labor and related expenses, energy and start up costs. Also
included was approximately $5.0 of employee severance costs related to a
restructuring that occurred during the second half of 2005.

Pension expense increased $15.7 principally as a result of additional plans
acquired upon acquisition and to a lesser extent, the lowering of the discount
rate in the U. S. by 0.50% to reflect current market rates on fixed income
securities. Pension expense is primarily reported in manufacturing cost of
sales.


                                      -22-
<PAGE>

Selling and technical services was $213.6 versus $139.8 in the prior year. This
increase was primarily attributable to the following items: the inclusion of the
acquired Surface Specialties business; $3.5 of employee severance costs; $1.2 of
unfavorable exchange rate changes; and $4.4 from increased investments in people
and qualification work on a number of new aircraft platforms for our customers
in the Cytec Engineered Materials segment.

Research and process development was $68.5 versus $40.0 in the prior year. This
increase was primarily attributable to the inclusion of the acquired Surface
Specialties business and $0.8 related to restructuring charges.

The write-off of acquired in-process research and development of $37.0 was the
result of the Surface Specialties acquisition.

Administrative and general expenses were $102.1 versus $65.1 in the prior year.
This increase was primarily attributable to the following items: the inclusion
of the acquired Surface Specialties business; a charge of $2.4 related to the
settlement of a litigation matter and employee severance costs of $7.3. Included
in administrative expenses for the prior year period is a charge of $8.0 related
to the settlement of a federal carbon fiber class action lawsuit and several
other minor litigation matters.

Amortization of acquisition intangibles was $30.3 versus $5.6 in the prior year
due to the amortization of intangibles related to the acquired Surface
Specialties business.

Other income (expense), net was expense of $44.9 compared with income of $16.9
in the prior year. We entered into derivative contracts to economically
hedge currency and interest rate exposures associated with the Surface
Specialties acquisition. These contracts were settled following completion of
the acquisition and resulted in a loss of $19.2 during 2005. The foreign
currency contracts have matured. In anticipation of the long-term debt that was
subsequently issued in October, 2005 to refinance debt, we also entered into
interest rate derivatives which resulted in the recognition of a loss of $25.0
in 2005. Also included in 2005 was a charge of $4.4 for a settlement to resolve
a dispute over an environmental matter. Included in 2004 results was a net gain
of $26.8 related to derivative contracts entered into during the fourth quarter
to economically hedge currency and interest rate exposure associated with the
pending acquisition of Surface Specialties. Also included in 2004 results were
charges of $6.1 for settlement of several environmental remediation and toxic
tort lawsuits and a charge of $2.0 related to the settlement of a series of
disputed matters with the holder of our Series C Preferred Stock ("Series C
Stock").

Equity in earnings of associated companies was $7.9 versus $5.2 in the prior
year. The increase was primarily due to an increase in earnings by CYRO even
though the 2005 results include only the five months of results. We sold our 50%
ownership stake in CYRO on June 1, 2005.

Interest expense, net was $80.0 compared with $17.4 in the prior year. The
increase resulted from higher  outstanding debt balances incurred in conjunction
with our acquisition of Surface  Specialties  and $22.0 of interest  charges and
unamortized  put  premiums  and rate lock  agreements  related  to the  optional
redemption of our Mandatory Par Put Remarketed Securities ("MOPPRS") in 2005.

Our 2005 effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was a tax
benefit of 33%. Our effective tax rate for  continuing  operations was favorably
impacted  by a  reduction  in income tax  expense of $12.2  related to a partial
resolution of a tax audit in Norway with respect to prior year tax returns and a
reduction in income tax expense of $16.2  recorded  related to final approval of
the Internal Revenue Service's examination of our tax returns for the years 1999
through  2001.  Also  favorably  impacting  the rate  were the  losses  of $44.2
incurred in the U.S. on interest rate and currency  derivatives  entered into in
connection with Surface Specialties  acquisition and the $22.0 charge pertaining
to the optional  redemption  of the MOPPRS.  The tax benefit on these losses was
recorded at 36.5%. Unfavorably impacting the 2005 tax rate was a charge of $37.0
for the write-off of in-process research and development expenses related to the
Surface Specialties acquisition for which no tax benefit was recorded. Excluding
these items,  our underlying 2005 annual effective tax rate would have been 26%.
The comparable  effective tax rate in 2004 was 24%,  which excludes  acquisition
related  net  currency  and  interest  rate hedge  gains.  The  increase  in the
underlying annual effective tax rate versus last year was primarily attributable
to the  addition of  earnings  from  acquired  Surface  Specialties  entities in
countries with higher tax rates than in countries for heritage Cytec.

Earnings from discontinued operations were $1.2 in 2005, net of taxes of $0.8
and reflect the results of Surface Specialties amino resins ("SSAR") product
line for the six months ended August 31, 2005, the date on which we divested
SSAR.

During 2004, we redeemed our Series C Stock, which had a liquidation value of
$0.1, for $10.0 in cash. The resulting charge to net earnings available to
common stockholders of $9.9 was recorded as a premium paid to redeem preferred
stock during 2004.


                                      -23-
<PAGE>



Net earnings available to common stockholders for 2005 were $59.1 ($1.27 per
diluted share) compared with $121.1 ($2.96 per diluted share). Included in the
full year ended December 31, 2005 were purchase accounting related charges of
$20.8 pre-tax (after-tax $15.2, or $0.33 per diluted share), related to acquired
inventories from Surface Specialties being recorded at fair value which exceeded
normal manufacturing cost, and $37.0 or $0.80 per diluted share related to the
write-off of in-process research and development costs of Surface Specialties, a
pre-tax charge of $44.2 million (after tax $28.1 or $0.61 per diluted share)
related to currency and interest rate derivative transactions associated with
the Surface Specialties acquisition, a pre-tax charge of $2.4 (after tax $1.8 or
$0.04 per diluted share) related to an anticipated settlement of a certain
litigation matter, a pre-tax charge of $22.0 (after-tax $14.0 or $0.30 per
diluted share) related to the optional redemption of our MOPPRS prior to their
maturity, an income tax benefit of $28.4, or $0.61 per diluted share, reflecting
favorable resolution of tax audits with respect to prior year tax returns,
employee restructuring costs of $16.8 (after tax net $12.4 or $0.27 per diluted
share), integration costs related to the acquired business of pre-tax $0.2
(after tax $0.1) and a $4.4 settlement to resolve a dispute over an
environmental matter (after tax $3.2 or $0.07 per diluted share).

SEGMENT RESULTS (SALES TO EXTERNAL CUSTOMERS)

Year-to-year comparisons and analyses of changes in net sales by product line
segment and region are set forth below and reflect the new organizational and
reporting structure of our reportable segments for all periods presented.

CYTEC PERFORMANCE CHEMICALS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     % CHANGE DUE TO
                                                                                        ---------------------------------------
                                                                               TOTAL                    ACQUISTION/
                                                2005          2004            % CHANGE    PRICE          VOLUME/MIX    CURRENCY
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>                <C>        <C>              <C>           <C>
North America                                   $340.8       $293.8             16%        9%               7%            0%
Latin America                                    126.8        104.0             22%        4%              12%            6%
Asia/Pacific                                     118.5        106.7             11%        4%               6%            1%
Europe/Middle East/Africa                        269.7        208.2             30%        6%              23%            1%
                                              ----------------------
Total                                           $855.8       $712.7             20%        7%              12%            1%
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Overall selling volume increased 12%, with the acquisition accounting for an
increase of 14%, partly offset by a decrease in base selling volumes of 2%,
primarily due to the sluggish demand in North American and Europe as well as our
decision to give up low margin business. On a regional basis, sales volume in
North America increased 7% with acquisitions accounting for 11%. The decrease in
base volumes is primarily attributable to the water treatment and polymer
additive product lines which were impacted by decisions to give up low margin
business and reduced demand. Sales volume in Europe/Middle East/Africa increased
23%, with acquisitions accounting for 24%, partly offset by a decrease in base
selling volume of 1% principally in the polymer additives product line. Sales
volumes in Asia were up 6% with the acquisition accounting for 12%. The decrease
in base volumes was principally in the polymer additives product line due to
decisions to give up low margin business. Sales volumes in Latin America
increased 12% primarily due to improved demand for mining chemicals for copper
mining applications. Selling prices increased as a result of implementation of
price increase initiatives to cover significantly higher raw material and energy
costs.

Earnings from operations were $56.6, or 7% of sales, compared with $57.5 or 8%
of sales in 2004. Earnings declined slightly as price increases of $47.1 and the
net favorable impact of exchange rate changes were offset by higher raw material
and energy costs of $35.8, a write-off of acquired in-process research and
development costs of $6.9, a charge of $2.5 for the excess of the fair value of
the finished goods inventory of the acquired business over normal manufacturing
cost and lower selling volumes compounded by reduced production levels at
certain facilities in response to lower demand levels.



                                      -24-
<PAGE>

CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     % CHANGE DUE TO
                                                                                        ---------------------------------------
                                                                               TOTAL                    ACQUISTION/
                                                2005          2004            % CHANGE    PRICE          VOLUME        CURRENCY
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>                <C>        <C>              <C>           <C>
North America                                  $  329.6       $122.4           169%        3%             166%            0%
Latin America                                      50.7         16.2           213%       -1%             210%            4%
Asia/Pacific                                      202.9         56.7           258%        1%             256%            1%
Europe/Middle East/Africa                         660.9         65.7           906%        2%             903%            1%
                                             --------------------------
Total                                          $1,244.1       $261.0           377%        2%             374%            1%
===============================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Selling volumes increased 374% as a result of the acquisition with base volumes
decreasing slightly for heritage businesses. In North America base business
declined 5% due to weak demand and Latin America, all of the volume increase is
acquisition related. In Asia/Pacific, base business grew 8% while in
Europe/Middle East/Africa, base volumes were down 2% due to weak demand.

Earnings from operations were $22.0, or 2% of sales, compared with earnings
from  operations  of $28.7 or 11% of sales in 2004.  The decrease in earnings is
primarily  attributable  to the  following  factors:  the  write-off of acquired
in-process research and development costs of $30.1; a charge of $18.3 for the
excess  of the fair  value  of the  finished  goods  inventory  of the  acquired
business over normal  manufacturing  costs; a decline in base business selling
volumes which decreased earnings by $6.5, and; higher raw material and energy
costs of $12.5 which were only partially recovered by selling price increases of
$4.8. Partially offsetting the above were the earnings of the acquired business
of $57.8 (excluding the acquired research and development and inventory charges
referred to above) and the net favorable impact of exchange rate changes.

CYTEC ENGINEERED MATERIALS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     % CHANGE DUE TO
                                                                                        ---------------------------------------
                                                                               TOTAL
                                                2005          2004            % CHANGE    PRICE          VOLUME/MIX    CURRENCY
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>                <C>        <C>              <C>           <C>
North America                                  $349.2       $322.4               8%        1%               7%            0%
Latin America(1)                                  1.5          1.7              ---       ---              ---           ---
Asia/Pacific                                     30.0         21.5              40%        3%              37%            0%
Europe/Middle East/Africa                       160.9        141.4              14%        3%              11%            0%
                                             --------------------------
Total                                          $541.6       $487.0              11%        2%               9%            0%
===============================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

(1)  Due to the level of sales in this geographic region, percentage comparisons
     are not meaningful.

Overall selling volumes increased 9%. Increased sales to the Europe/Middle
East/Africa, North America and Asia/Pacific regions primarily related to
increased volumes to the large commercial transport and commercial rotorcraft
sectors primarily due to increased build rates and new business.

Earnings from operations were $103.0, or 19% of sales, compared with $83.4, or
17% of sales, in 2004. The increase was primarily attributable to increased
earnings of $30.5 from higher selling volumes and price increases of $8.3
partially offset by higher raw material and energy costs of $5.6, manufacturing
difficulties in Europe and increased in technical, commercial and research of
$5.2 principally to support future growth initiatives.

BUILDING BLOCK CHEMICALS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     % CHANGE DUE TO
                                                                                        ---------------------------------------
                                                                               TOTAL
                                                2005          2004            % CHANGE    PRICE          VOLUME/MIX    CURRENCY
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>                <C>        <C>              <C>           <C>
North America                                 $  149.2       $126.6             18%       18%               0%            0%
Latin America(1)                                   4.9          3.3             ---       ---              ---           ---
Asia/Pacific                                      50.3         77.0            -35%       10%             -45%            0%
Europe/Middle East/Africa                         79.8         53.7             49%       21%              28%            0%
                                            ---------------------------
Total                                         $  284.2       $260.6              9%       16%              -7%            0%
=================================================================================================================================
(1)  Due to the level of sales in this geographic region, percentage comparisons are not meaningful.
</TABLE>

Sales were higher overall due to higher selling prices, primarily for
acrylonitrile, which were in line with the increase in raw material costs.
Selling volumes decreased 7% overall. Selling volumes to the Asia/Pacific region
decreased due to sluggish demand for acrylonitrile in light of higher selling
prices but were partially offset by increased volumes to the Europe/Middle
East/Africa region where local production outages increased demand for imported
acrylonitrile. Selling volumes in North America were impacted by reduced
industrial demand and the hurricanes in the US Gulf region.


                                      -25-
<PAGE>

Earnings from operations were $5.7, or 2% of sales, compared with $15.6, or 6%
of sales, in 2004. The decrease in earnings reflects the impact from the
hurricanes of about $6.3 related to maintenance and repair costs, extra labor
and related expenses, energy and start up costs and the related lower production
levels which reduced fixed cost absorption by approximately $3.9. Higher selling
prices of $41.0 mostly offset increased raw material and energy costs of $44.6.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004 COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS

Net sales for 2004 were $1,721.3 compared with $1,471.8 during 2003. All
segments reported increased sales. In the two specialty chemicals segments sales
increased primarily due to increased selling volumes, the acquisitions completed
in the second half of 2003 and favorable exchange rates. The Cytec Engineered
Materials segment sales increase was primarily volume related and all product
lines participated. The Building Block Chemicals segment sales increased
principally due to higher selling prices which were driven by higher raw
material and energy costs offset somewhat by a decrease in sales volumes of
acrylonitrile and acrylamide.

For a detailed discussion on sales refer to the Segment Results section below.

Manufacturing cost of sales was $1,303.1 compared with $1,111.9 during 2003.
Cost of sales was primarily impacted by higher raw material and energy costs of
$69.0. Gross margin percent however, decreased by only 0.2% as the higher raw
material and energy costs were offset by increased selling prices of $42.1, the
net impact of exchange rates on operations outside of the United States of
$35.1, the fixed cost leverage from the increased production levels and a
favorable product mix.

Pension expense increased $5.1 principally as a result of our lowering the
discount rate in the U. S. by 0.5% to reflect current market rates on fixed
income securities and by the 2003 acquisitions which increased pension expense
by $0.3. Pension expense is primarily reported in manufacturing cost of sales.
Refer to "Critical Accounting Policies, Retirement Plans" for further discussion
on how changes in discount rates and return on asset assumptions can impact
annual expense.

Selling and technical services was $139.8 in 2004 versus $126.9 in the prior
year due to ongoing costs of the businesses in the Specialty Chemical segments
acquired in the second half of 2003, the impact of exchange rate changes on
operations outside of the United States of $4.2 and higher costs in the Cytec
Engineered Materials segment of $2.0 where we are investing in personnel,
product qualifications and commercialization of new products for our growth
initiatives.

Research and process development was $40.0 versus $35.2 in the prior year. This
increase was primarily the result of ongoing costs of the acquired businesses of
the Specialty Chemical segments completed in the second half of 2003, costs
associated with the start up of the newly renovated specialty chemicals
technology center and higher costs in the Cytec Engineered Materials segment
where we continue to invest for a number of future opportunities.

Administrative and general expenses were $65.1 versus $49.7 in the prior year.
Included in 2004 is a charge of $8.0 related to the settlement of the federal
carbon fiber class action lawsuit and several other minor litigation matters.
Also contributing to the increase were ongoing costs of the businesses of the
Specialty Chemical segments acquired in the second half of 2003 of approximately
$1.3, an increase in deferred compensation expense of $2.6 due to the increase
in our stock price versus the year ago period and the impact of exchange rate
changes on operations outside of the U.S. of $1.1. Additionally, we incurred
$2.0 in third party expenses related to implementing accounting and disclosure
control procedures as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

Other income, net was $16.9 compared with a loss of $5.7 in the prior year.
Included in 2004 results was a net gain of $26.8 related to derivative contracts
entered into during the fourth quarter to economically hedge currency and
interest rate exposure associated with the pending acquisition of Surface
Specialties. We entered into foreign currency contracts to offset the impact of
potential dollar to euro exchange rate fluctuations on the acquisition cost in
dollars and this resulted in a gain of $33.3. In anticipation of future
long-term debt that would be issued to partially finance the acquisition, we
also entered into interest rate hedges which resulted in the recognition of a
loss of $6.5. Also included in other income, net are charges of $6.2 for
settlement of several environmental remediation and toxic tort lawsuits and a
charge of $2.0 related to the settlement of a series of disputed matters with
Wyeth, partially offset by a gain of $2.0 related to the sale in 1999 of our
share of a methanol joint venture whereby we received additional proceeds
because the market price of methanol stayed above an agreed upon index over a
predetermined period of time. We also recorded $3.0 in other income, net, of
which $1.0 has been received, that relates to insurance recoveries and expected
recoveries from our insurers of lead-related defense costs which had been
previously expensed. Lead-related defense costs recognized during 2004 amounted
to $2.5. The prior year loss of $5.7 primarily resulted from the recognition of
currency losses whereby certain international subsidiaries held dollar
denominated assets while the U.S. dollar weakened.


                                      -26-
<PAGE>



Equity in earnings of associated companies was $5.2 versus $7.2 in the prior
year. Earnings from CYRO, our 50% owned acrylic plastics joint venture, remained
flat as compared with the prior year as increased sales volumes and selling
prices offset higher raw material costs. In addition, results for 2003 included
earnings of $1.8 from our former 50% owned Mitsui-Cytec joint venture. Refer to
Notes 2 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Interest expense, net was $17.4 compared with $16.2 in the prior year. The
increase resulted primarily from a higher outstanding weighted-average debt
balance during 2004.

Our effective tax rate in 2004 was 24.0% compared with 28.3% in 2003. This
reduction reflects our continued earnings growth in lower tax jurisdictions and,
to a lesser extent, a favorable international tax ruling received in the first
quarter of 2004. During the second quarter of 2004, we recorded a reduction of
our tax liabilities due to the completion of several years of tax audits in an
international tax jurisdiction that resulted in a reduction of $2.4 to our
income tax provision. These reductions were partially offset by the derivative
net gain noted above which was taxed at the higher incremental U.S. rate.

Net earnings available to common stockholders for 2004 were $121.1 ($2.96 per
diluted share). Net earnings available to common stockholders for 2004 included
a charge of $9.9 ($0.24 per diluted share) as a result of the redemption of our
Series C Stock. Our Series C Stock was originally issued in 1993 in conjunction
with our spin-off from American Cyanamid Company ("Cyanamid"). Wyeth became
beneficial owner of Series C Stock following its acquisition of Cyanamid in
1994. Net earnings available to common stockholders for 2003 were $79.2 ($1.97
per diluted share). Included in 2003 results is an after-tax, non-cash charge of
$13.6 ($0.34 per diluted share) reported as a cumulative effect of accounting
change related to the adoption of SFAS No.143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations" which became effective January 1, 2003.

SEGMENT RESULTS (SALES TO EXTERNAL CUSTOMERS)

Year-to-year comparisons and analyses of changes in net sales by product line
segment and region are set forth below.

CYTEC PERFORMANCE CHEMICALS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     % CHANGE DUE TO
                                                                                        ---------------------------------------
                                                                               TOTAL                    ACQUISTION/
                                                2004          2003            % CHANGE    PRICE          VOLUME/MIX    CURRENCY
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>                <C>        <C>              <C>           <C>
North America                                   $293.8       $272.5              8%        1%               7%            0%
Latin America                                    104.0         77.9             34%       -2%              33%            3%
Asia/Pacific                                     106.7        101.3              5%        0%               3%            2%
Europe/Middle East/Africa                        208.2        171.9             21%        0%              13%            8%
                                             --------------------------
Total                                           $712.7       $623.6             14%        0%              11%            3%
===============================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Overall sales improved 14% with acquisitions accounting for 6%. The 5% increase
in base selling volumes was attributable to increased sales across all product
lines, mining chemicals and water treatment chemicals. On a regional basis,
sales volumes in Latin America increased 33% with acquisitions accounting for
11% and the remainder of the increase primarily due to improved demand for
mining chemicals from copper mining applications. Sales volumes were up 13% in
Europe/Middle East/Africa with acquisitions accounting for 4% and the remainder
of the increase primarily due to increased demand for water treatment chemicals
from full service providers and phosphine applications.

Earnings from operations were $57.5, or 8% of sales, compared with $35.7 or 6%
of sales in 2003. The increase in earnings was primarily attributable to
increased selling volumes, primarily due to acquisitions during the second half
of 2003, and the impact of exchange rate changes of $20.3 partly offset by
increased raw material and energy costs of $8.7.


                                      -27-
<PAGE>




CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     % CHANGE DUE TO
                                                                                        ---------------------------------------
                                                                               TOTAL
                                                2004          2003            % CHANGE    PRICE          VOLUME/MIX    CURRENCY
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>                <C>        <C>              <C>           <C>
North America                                    $122.4       $120.5             2%       -1%               3%            0%
Latin America                                      16.2         13.4            21%        0%              20%            1%
Asia/Pacific                                       56.7         36.5            55%       -2%              55%            2%
Europe/Middle East/Africa                          65.7         58.0            13%        1%               3%            9%
                                             --------------------------
Total                                            $261.0       $228.4            14%       -1%              12%            3%
===============================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Overall selling volumes increased 12% with acquisitions accounting for 7%. Base
selling volumes increased for all product lines as a result of improved demand
and new business. On a regional basis, Asia/Pacific sales volumes increased 55%
with acquisitions accounting for 45%. Latin America sales volumes increased 20%
and resulted from increased demand for coatings. Europe/Middle East/Africa sales
were up 13% due to the favorable impact of exchange rate changes and increased
demand primarily for coatings chemicals.

Earnings from operations were $28.7, or 11% of sales, compared with $23.7, or
10% of sales, in 2003. The favorable impact from acquisitions, higher base sales
volumes, improved manufacturing operations and net favorable exchange rate
changes of $6.2 more than offset the effect of higher raw material and energy
costs of $3.4.

CYTEC ENGINEERED MATERIALS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     % CHANGE DUE TO
                                                                                        ---------------------------------------
                                                                               TOTAL
                                                2004          2003            % CHANGE    PRICE          VOLUME/MIX    CURRENCY
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>                <C>        <C>              <C>           <C>
North America                                    $322.4     $292.3              10%        0%              10%            0%
Latin America(1)                                    1.7        1.6              ---       ---              ---           ---
Asia/Pacific                                       21.5       15.5              39%       -1%              40%            0%
Europe/Middle East/Africa                         141.4       99.3              42%       -3%              40%            5%
                                             --------------------------
Total                                            $487.0     $408.7              19%       -1%              19%            1%
- -------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------ ---------------- --------- ---------------- -----------

(1)  Due to the level of sales in this geographic region, percentage comparisons
     are not meaningful.
</TABLE>

Overall selling volumes increased 19% with the increases coming from large
commercial aircraft, regional and business jets and rotorcraft, military and
high performance automotive sectors. On a regional basis, the 10% increase in
North America sales volumes represented increased sales primarily to large
commercial aircraft, military, business and regional jet and rotorcraft
applications. Europe/Middle East/Africa sales volumes increased 40% principally
due to increased sales to large commercial aircraft and high performance
automotive applications as well as to business and regional jet and rotorcraft
applications. Asia/Pacific sales volumes increased 40% principally due to
increased sales for large commercial aircraft and regional and business jets.
The overall decrease in average selling price was primarily due to increased
volume rebates.

Earnings from operations were $83.4, or 17% of sales, compared with $66.0, or
16% of sales, in 2003. Higher earnings were principally due to the increase in
selling volumes partly offset by increased manufacturing and commercial costs to
service the higher demand levels and growth opportunities of this segment.

BUILDING BLOCK CHEMICALS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     % CHANGE DUE TO
                                                                                        ---------------------------------------
                                                                               TOTAL
                                                2004          2003            % CHANGE    PRICE          VOLUME/MIX    CURRENCY
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>                <C>        <C>              <C>           <C>
North America                                 $  126.6      $  88.9             43%       25%              18%            0%
Latin America(1)                                   3.3          4.0             ---       ---              ---           ---
Asia/Pacific                                      77.0         58.0             33%       35%              -2%            0%
Europe/Middle East/Africa                         53.7         60.2            -11%        6%             -23%            6%
                                            ---------------------------
Total                                           $260.6       $211.1             23%       22%              -1%            2%
===============================================================================================================================
(1)  Due to the level of sales in this geographic region, percentage comparisons are not meaningful.
</TABLE>

Global sales volumes declined slightly due in part to decreased acrylonitrile
production as a result of reduced propylene (the key raw material for
acrylonitrile) availability during the first quarter as well as a scheduled
plant maintenance shutdown during May, 2004. North America selling volumes were
up 18% with the majority due to increased acrylonitrile and sulfuric acid
business. Europe/Middle East/Africa volumes decreased as 2003 reflected
opportunistic sales in this region resulting from more favorable spot selling
prices versus the Asia/Pacific region. North America and Asia/Pacific selling
prices were up primarily reflecting partial recovery of higher raw material and
energy costs.

                                      -28-
<PAGE>

Earnings from operations were $15.6, or 6% of sales, compared with $20.7, or 10%
of sales, in 2003. The decrease in earnings was primarily due to the decrease in
volume and increased raw material and energy costs of $48.0, which were not
fully offset by price increases of $46.0.

LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

At December 31, 2005, our cash balance was $68.6 compared with $323.8 at year
end 2004. This decrease was primarily attributable to the use of cash to pay for
a portion of the purchase price of Surface Specialties and to reduce debt,
partially offset by cash generated from operations and sales of assets and
discontinued operations.

Cash flows provided by operating activities were $232.4 compared with $167.4 for
2004. Significant one-time non-cash acquisition related charges for the
write-off of acquired in-process research and development and amortization of
acquired finished goods step up to fair value negatively impacted earnings but
did not impact operating cash flow. The acquisition also resulted in significant
increases in non-cash depreciation and amortization expenses. Other receivables
reflect cash flows of $31.7 primarily due to the reimbursement from UCB for the
payment of $19.4 of pre-acquisition tax liabilities for which we have been
indemnified. Income taxes payable decreased $42.6 reflecting payment of the
pre-acquisition income tax liabilities of $19.9 and the favorable resolution of
several prior year tax matters which amounted to a reduction of income taxes
payable of $28.3. Inventories decreased $9.5 reflecting efforts to optimize
inventory levels. Other assets decreased $21.5 primarily from the cash
realization of gains on acquisition related derivative instruments that were
recognized in 2004. Accrued expenses decreased $19.3. Included in this are
payments against acquisition related accruals of $7.9, payments against prior
year incentive accruals higher than the current year accrual of $10.9, payment
of legal settlements of $10.4 of which $8.0 was accrued in 2004 and a payment of
$7.7 for losses on interest rate derivative instruments that were recognized in
2004. Partially offsetting these payments were net accruals for restructuring of
$10.5.

Cash flows used in investing activities were $1,385.2 for 2005 compared with
$84.1 for 2004. This increase was primarily attributable to the acquisition of
Surface Specialties. On February 28, 2005, we acquired Surface Specialties for
cash and stock valued at $1,799.7, of which $1,508.9 (euro 1,138.5 at 1.325 U.S.
dollar per euro) was paid in cash and the balance was paid in 5,772,857 shares
of Cytec common stock ($290.8 at $50.37 per Cytec share). During September 2005,
we received $25.4 from UCB representing an adjustment to the purchase price for
finalization of working capital amounts as of the acquisition date. After
considering the final working capital adjustment and transaction costs of $14.9,
the acquisition is valued at $1,789.2 of which $1,493.8 was paid in cash in 2005
and $4.6 was paid in cash in 2004. Assets acquired includes $34.7 in cash, so
the net cash used for the acquisition in 2005 totaled $1,459.1. The increase in
cash flows used in investing activities was partly offset by the sale of assets
of $105.5 of which $100.4 was received from the sale of our 50% investment in
CYRO. Also, $74.3 was received from the sale of SSAR, which was classified as a
discontinued operation. Capital spending for 2005 was $105.3, up from $89.3
primarily due to spending at acquired sites.

Net cash flows provided by financing activities were $906.4 in 2005
compared with net cash flows used in financing activities of $20.6 during 2004.
This  increase  primarily  resulted  from  borrowings  in  connection  with  the
acquisition of Surface Specialties.

We financed the cash component with $600.0 under an unsecured 364-day credit
facility, $725.0 under an unsecured five-year term loan and the remaining $184.0
was paid from existing cash. During October 2005, we sold $250.0 principal
amount of 5.5% Notes due October 1, 2010 and $250.0 principal amount of 6.0%
Notes due October 1, 2015 (collectively, the "Notes"). The Notes were offered
under our $600.0 shelf registration statement. We received $495.1 in net
proceeds from the offering after deducting the underwriting discount and other
offering expenses which we used to repay all amounts outstanding under our
unsecured 364-day facility and our revolving credit facility which were $417.5
and $66.2, respectively. The 364-day facility is now terminated. The Notes will
pay interest on each April 1 and October 1, commencing on April 1, 2006 through
their respective due dates. The Notes are unsecured and subordinated to any
secured indebtedness of Cytec. The Notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part,
at our option at any time subject to a prepayment adjustment. Our bank
agreements contain certain customary covenants with which we are in compliance
at December 31, 2005.

In late 2004, we entered into $642.9 of forward-starting interest rate swaps to
hedge the benchmark interest rate and credit spread on certain debt anticipated
to be issued in 2005 in connection with the acquisition of Surface Specialties.
Due to a subsequent reduction in borrowing requirements, we liquidated $25.0 of
these swaps in March 2005 at a cost of $0.4 and $60.4 of these swaps in June
2005 at a cost of $3.7. On September 29, 2005, we settled the remaining
outstanding swaps at the same time that we priced our public debt offering. The
termination payment of $27.4 was paid in October, 2005.


                                      -29-
<PAGE>

In connection with the acquisition, we suspended our stock buy-back program and
do not anticipate making future stock buy-backs for at least two years from the
closing date in order to maximize the funds available for debt service and other
corporate purposes.

In order to take advantage of interest rates then in effect, we elected to
redeem the MOPPRS in May, 2005, at the optional redemption price of $141.0. The
optional redemption price represented the $120.0 principal amount of the
securities and a $21.0 pre-tax interest charge for redemption prior to their
final maturity. The redemption provided us with the ability to refinance this
debt at a significantly lower cost and a shorter tenor.

In conjunction with our note offering, we entered into (euro)207.9 of five year
and (euro)207.9 of ten year euro/US dollar cross currency swaps. The swaps
included an initial exchange of $500.0 on October 4, 2005 and will require final
principal exchanges of $250.0 on each settlement date of the 5-Year and 10-Year
Notes (October 1, 2010 and October 1, 2015), respectively. At the initial
principal exchange, we paid US dollars to counterparties and received euros.
Upon final exchange, we will provide euros to counterparties and receive U.S.
dollars. The swaps also call for an exchange of fixed euro interest payments for
fixed US dollar interest receipts. With respect to the five year swaps, we will
receive 5.5% per annum and will pay 3.784% per annum on each April 1 and October
1, through the maturity. With respect to the ten year swaps, we will receive
6.0% per annum and will pay 4.5245% per annum on each April 1 and October 1,
through the maturity date.

After accounting for the cross currency swaps, the "all-in" effective interest
rate including amortization of underwriters' discount and other offering costs
is approximately 4.0% and 4.7% for the 5-Year and 10-Year Notes, respectively.

The euro denominated bank borrowings including the impact of our euro/US dollar
cross currency swaps, naturally hedge our euro denominated intercompany
receivables and provide a partial hedge of our net investment in our
Belgium-based subsidiary, Cytec Surface Specialties SA/NV.

As of December 31, 2005, our total debt of $1,311.0 is denominated approximately
60% in euros, 38% in dollars and the balance denominated in various other
currencies, after taking into account the euro/US dollar cross currency swaps.

As of December 31, 2005, we may borrow up to $350.0 under our revolving credit
facility.

During 2005, we paid four quarterly cash dividends of $0.10 per common share
which aggregated $17.8. On February 9, 2006 the Board of Directors declared a
$0.10 per common share cash dividend, payable on March 15, 2006 to shareholders
of record as of February 27, 2006.

We believe that we have the ability to fund our operating cash requirements,
planned capital expenditures and dividends as well as the ability to meet our
debt service requirements for the foreseeable future from existing cash and from
internal cash generation. However, from time to time, based on such factors as
local tax regulations, prevailing interest rates and our plans for capital
investment or other investments, it may make economic sense to utilize our
existing credit lines in order to meet those cash requirements, which may
include debt-service related disbursements.

We have not guaranteed any indebtedness of our unconsolidated associated
company.

Excluding the impact of increasing raw materials costs, inflation is not
considered significant since the rate of inflation has remained relatively low
in recent years and investments in areas of the world where inflation poses a
significant risk are limited. The impact of increasing raw material costs are
discussed under "Customers and Suppliers" in "Business" in Item 1, herein.


                                      -30-
<PAGE>





CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS

The following table sets forth our contractual obligations as of December 31,
2005:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIOD
                                   -------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    LESS THAN                                     MORE THAN
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS                  TOTAL         1 YEAR      1-3 YEARS       3-5 YEARS        5 YEARS
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>                <C>           <C>            <C>            <C>
Long-term debt                       $ 1,277.2          $51.1         $247.7         $ 526.7        $ 451.7
Operating leases                          60.3           13.6           19.7            10.6           16.4
Purchase obligations                      51.9           16.7           19.4             7.8            8.0
Unfunded employee benefits                15.2            1.5            4.3             3.0            6.4
                                   -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                $ 1,404.6          $82.9        $ 291.1         $ 548.1        $ 482.5
============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

We had net contractual commitments under currency forward contracts in U.S.
dollar equivalent amounts of $42.4, that all settle in less than one year. At
December 31, 2005, we also had $10.5 of natural gas forward contracts that
settle in less than one year. (Refer to Item 7A as well as Note 5 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included herein).

We had $46.6 of outstanding letters of credit, surety bonds and bank guarantees
at December 31, 2005 that are issued on our behalf in the ordinary course of
business to support certain of our performance obligations and commitments. The
instruments are typically renewed on an annual basis.

We do not have any unconsolidated limited purpose entities or any undisclosed
material transactions or commitments involving related persons or entities.



                                      -31-
<PAGE>




ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The following discussion provides forward-looking quantitative and qualitative
information about our potential exposures to market risk arising from changes in
currency rates, commodity prices and interest rates. Actual results could differ
materially from those projected in this forward-looking analysis. Currencies are
in millions.

Market risk represents the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the
value of financial instruments. The risk of loss is assessed based on the
likelihood of adverse changes in fair values, cash flows or future earnings.

In the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to various market risks,
including fluctuations in currency rates, commodity prices and interest rates.
To manage the exposure related to these risks, we may engage in various
derivative transactions in accordance with our established policies. We do not
hold or issue financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Moreover, we enter into financial instrument transactions with either major
financial institutions or highly-rated counterparties and make reasonable
attempts to diversify transactions among counterparties, thereby limiting
exposure to credit related and performance related risks.

CURRENCY RISK: We periodically enter into currency forward contracts primarily
to hedge currency fluctuations of transactions denominated in currencies other
than the functional currency of the business. At December 31, 2005, the
principal transactions hedged involved accounts receivable, accounts payable and
intercompany loans. When hedging currency exposures, our practice is to hedge
such exposures with forward contracts denominated in the same currency and with
similar critical terms as the underlying exposure, and therefore, the
instruments are effective at generating offsetting changes in the fair value,
cash flows or future earnings of the hedged item or transaction.

At December 31, 2005, the currency and net contractual amounts of forward
contracts outstanding translated into U. S. dollar equivalent amounts were as
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    BUY
                                   ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              POUND                CANADIAN     AUSTRALIAN
            SELL                        EURO   STERLING            DOLLAR         DOLLAR    U.S. DOLLAR
            ---------------------- ---------- ---------------- ------------- -------------- ------------
<S>                                    <C>                         <C>            <C>
            U. S. DOLLAR               $11.8            -          $3.5           $4.5             -
            EURO                           -         $7.3             -              -             -
            NORWEGIAN KRONE              2.4            -             -              -          $7.8
            JAPANESE YEN                   -            -             -            3.8             -
            OTHER                        1.3            -             -              -             -
            ============================================================================================
</TABLE>

The fair value of currency contracts, based on forward exchange rates at
December 31, 2005, was approximately $0.1. Assuming that year-end exchange rates
between the underlying currencies of all outstanding contracts and the various
hedged currencies were to adversely change by a hypothetical 10%, the fair value
of all outstanding contracts at year-end would decrease by approximately $3.5.
However, since these contracts hedge specific transactions, any change in the
fair value of the contracts would be offset by changes in the underlying value
of the transaction being hedged.

In September, 2005, we entered into (euro)207.9 of five year cross currency
swaps and (euro)207.9 of ten year cross currency swaps to effectively convert
the 5-Year Notes and 10-Year Notes into euro-denominated liabilities. The swaps
included an initial exchange of $500.0 on October 4, 2005 and will require final
principal exchanges of $250.0 on each settlement date of the 5-Year and 10-Year
Notes (October 1, 2010 and October 1, 2015), respectively. At the initial
principal exchange, we paid US dollars to counterparties and received euros.
Upon final exchange, we will provide euros to counterparties and receive US
dollars. The swaps also call for a semi-annual exchange of fixed euro interest
payments for fixed US dollar interest receipts. With respect to the five year
swaps, we will receive 5.5% per annum and will pay 3.784% per annum on each
April 1 and October 1, through the maturity date of the five year swaps. With
respect to the ten year swaps, we will receive 6.0% per annum and will pay
4.5245% per annum on each April 1 and October 1, through the maturity date of
the ten year swaps. The cross currency swaps have been designated as cash flow
hedges of the changes in value of the future euro interest and principal
receipts that results from changes in the US dollar to euro exchange rates on
certain euro denominated intercompany receivables we have with our subsidiaries.
The cross currency swaps plus the euro denominated bank borrowings naturally
hedge our euro denominated intercompany loans receivable and, further, provide a
partial hedge of our net investment in our Belgium-based subsidiary, Cytec
Surface Specialties SA/NV.

At December 31, 2005, the fair value of the five and ten year swaps were $5.8
and $2.7, respectively. Assuming other factors are held constant, a hypothetical
increase/decrease of 10% in the euro exchange rate would cause an
increase/decrease of approximately $49.2 in the value of the hedging instruments
referred to above.


                                      -32-
<PAGE>

COMMODITY PRICE RISK: We use natural gas forward contracts, which are physically
settled, to hedge certain utility requirements. The maturities of these
contracts correlate highly to the actual purchases of the commodity and have the
effect of securing predetermined prices that we pay for the underlying
commodity. While these contracts are structured to limit our exposure to
increases in commodity prices, they can also limit the potential benefit we
might have otherwise received from decreases in commodity prices. Because we
take physical delivery of the commodity, these contracts are not required to be
recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. Instead, realized gains and
losses are included in the cost of the commodity upon settlement of the
contract.

At December 31, 2005, the Building Block Chemicals segment Fortier plant's 2006
forecasted natural gas utility requirements were 37% hedged utilizing natural
gas forward contracts at an average cost of $8.84 per MMBTU. These contracts had
a notional value of $10.5 and have delivery dates from January 2006 through
December 2006. Based on year-end NYMEX prices, we had net unrealized gains on
our natural gas forward contracts at December 31, 2005 of $2.4. Assuming that
year-end natural gas prices were to decrease by a hypothetical 10%, the value of
these contracts would decrease by approximately $1.3.

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had outstanding natural gas swaps with a fair
value gain of $1.7 and a fair value loss of $(0.7), net of taxes, respectively.

INTEREST RATE RISK: At December 31, 2005, our outstanding borrowings consisted
of $34.3 of short-term borrowings and long-term debt, including the current
portion, which had a carrying value of $1,276.7, a face value of $1,277.2 and a
fair value, based on dealer quoted values, of approximately $1,243.5.

Assuming other factors are held constant, a hypothetical increase/decrease of 1%
in the weighted-average prevailing interest rate on our variable rate debt
outstanding as of December 31, 2005, interest expense would increase/decrease by
approximately $1.3 for the next fiscal quarter and the fair value of the fixed
rate long-term debt would decrease/increase by approximately $39.1.

2006 OUTLOOK

In our February 9, 2006 press release, which was also furnished as an exhibit to
a current report on Form 8-K, we set forth our assumptions and management's best
estimate of the full year 2006 earnings at the time based on various assumptions
set forth in our press release. We forecast diluted earnings per share in the
range of $3.45-$3.70, before special items, for the year. There can be no
assurance that sales or earnings will develop in the manner projected. Actual
results may differ materially. See "Comments on Forward Looking Statements."

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES / CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States require management
to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions
affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements and the
notes thereto. The areas discussed below involve the use of significant judgment
in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and changes in the
estimates and assumptions used may impact future results of operations and
financial condition.

ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

Accruals for environmental remediation and operating and maintenance costs
directly related to remediation, and other contingent liabilities are recorded
when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
liability can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are recorded at management's
best estimate of the ultimate expected liabilities, without any discount to
reflect the time value of money. These accruals are reviewed periodically and
adjusted, if necessary, as additional information becomes available.

The amount accrued for environment remediation reflects our assumptions about
remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature and cost of the
remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other
potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and
financial viability of other potentially responsible parties.

Included in other contingent liabilities are workers' compensation, product
liability and toxic tort claims. The amount accrued for other contingent
liabilities reflects our assumptions about the incidence, severity, indemnity
costs and dismissal rates for existing and future claims.


                                      -33-
<PAGE>

Accruals for environmental remediation and other contingent liabilities can
change substantially if our assumptions are not realized or due to actions by
governmental agencies or private parties. We cannot estimate any additional
amount of loss or range of loss in excess of the recorded amounts. Moreover,
environmental and other contingent liabilities are paid over an extended period,
and the timing of such payments cannot be predicted with any certainty. Accruals
for environmental and other contingent liabilities are recorded as other
noncurrent liabilities with any amounts expected to be paid out in the next
twelve months classified as accrued expenses.

Probable insurance recoveries for past and probable future costs are recorded at
management's best estimate of the ultimate expected receipts without discounting
to reflect the time value of money and are recorded as other assets. A number of
factors impact the estimates of insurance reimbursements. These factors include
the financial viability of the insurance companies, the method in which losses
will be allocated to the various insurance policies, how legal and defense costs
will be covered by the insurance policies, the interpretation of the effect on
coverage of various policy terms and limits and their interrelationships, and
historical recovery rates over the past ten years.

Defense and processing costs are expensed as incurred. Probable insurance
recoveries for defense and processing costs are accrued when the related costs
are incurred and are recorded as other assets.

RETIREMENT PLANS

We sponsor defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans. The
postretirement plans provide medical and life insurance benefits to retirees who
meet minimum age and service requirements. Our most significant pension plans
are in the U. S., and constituted over 67% of our consolidated pension assets
and 66% of projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2005. The
calculation of our pension expense and pension liability associated with our
defined benefit pension plans requires the use of a number of assumptions that
we deem to be "critical accounting estimates." Changes in these assumptions can
result in different pension expense and liability amounts, and actual experience
can differ from the assumptions. We believe that the most critical assumptions
are the discount rate and the expected rate of return on plan assets.

At the end of each year, we determine the discount rate to be used for pension
liabilities. In estimating this rate, we look to rates of return on high
quality, long term corporate bonds that receive one of the two highest ratings
given by a recognized ratings agency. We discounted our U.S. future pension
liabilities using a rate of 5.6% at December 31, 2005. The discount rate used to
determine the value of liabilities has a significant effect on expense.

The expected rate of return on plan assets, which was 7.7% for 2005, reflects
the long-term average rate of return expected on funds invested or to be
invested in the pension plans to provide for the benefits included in the
pension liability. We establish the expected rate of return at the beginning of
each fiscal year based upon information available to us at that time, including
the historical returns of major asset classes, the expected investment mix of
the plans' assets, and estimates of future long-term investment returns. The U.
S. pension plan's investment mix at December 31, 2005 approximated 67% equities
and 33% fixed income securities. Any differences between actual experience and
assumed experience are deferred as an unrecognized actuarial gain or loss. The
unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss is amortized in accordance with SFAS No.
87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions."

IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL

We have defined our segments as our SFAS No. 142 reporting units. Our four
business segments are Cytec Performance Chemicals, Cytec Surface Specialties,
Cytec Engineered Materials and Building Block Chemicals. Cytec Performance
Chemicals and Cytec Surface Specialties are managed under one executive
leadership, and are referred to collectively as Cytec Specialty Chemicals. Cytec
Performance Chemicals serves large, global industrial markets. Cytec Surface
Specialties serves the large, global coatings market. Cytec Engineered Materials
serves principally aerospace markets. Building Block Chemicals sells commodity
chemical intermediates to industrial users. The segments above reflect how we
run our company, manage the assets and the customer perspective.

We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. Goodwill of a reporting unit
will be tested for impairment between annual tests if events occur or
circumstances change that would likely reduce the fair value of the reporting
unit below its carrying value. We use a two-step process to test goodwill for
impairment. First, the reporting unit's fair value is compared to its carrying
value. We utilize a market multiple approach to determine fair value estimates.
Due to the cyclical nature of our reporting units, values are determined
utilizing a three year average. The three year period is comprised of the prior
year, current year and one year projected amounts. If the market multiple
approach yields a result, which may indicate a possible impairment, a discounted
cash flow approach is utilized to more precisely determine the reporting unit's
fair value. If a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, an
indication exists that the reporting unit's goodwill may be impaired, and the
second step of the impairment test would be performed. The second step of the
goodwill impairment test is used to measure the amount of the impairment loss.
In the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is
determined by allocating the reporting unit's fair value to all of its assets
and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price
allocation. The resulting implied fair value of the goodwill that results from
the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of
the goodwill and an impairment charge is recorded for the difference.


                                      -34-
<PAGE>

These evaluations involve amounts that are based on management's best estimates
and judgments. Because of the uncertainty inherent in such estimates, actual
results may differ from these estimates. We are not aware of reasonably likely
events or circumstances that would result in different amounts being estimated
that would have a material impact on these assessments for impairment.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS, INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED

Long-lived assets and intangible assets with determinable useful lives are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Assets with
indefinite useful lives are reviewed annually for impairment. Recoverability of
assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of
the assets to the future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by
the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be
recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets
exceeds the fair value of the assets and would be charged to earnings.
Intangible assets with determinable useful lives are amortized over their
respective estimated useful lives. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the
lower of the carrying amount or fair value less the costs to sell.

INCOME TAXES

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred
tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis and operating
loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided when it is
more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will
not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted
tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on
deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in
earnings in the period that includes the enactment date.

We intend to reinvest the unremitted earnings of international subsidiaries.
Accordingly, no provision has been made for U.S. or additional non-U.S. taxes
with respect to these earnings. In the event of repatriation to the U.S., such
earnings would be subject to U.S. income taxes in most cases. Foreign tax
credits would be available to substantially reduce the amount of U.S. tax
otherwise payable in future years.

Our annual effective tax rate is based on expected income, statutory tax rates
and tax planning opportunities available in various jurisdictions in which we
operate. Significant judgment is required in determining the annual effective
tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions.

We establish accruals for tax contingencies when, notwithstanding the reasonable
belief that our tax return positions are fully supported, we believes that
certain filing positions are likely to be challenged and moreover, that such
filing positions may not be fully sustained.

We continually evaluate our tax contingency accruals and will adjust such
amounts in light of changing facts and circumstances, including but not limited
to emerging case law, tax legislation, rulings by relevant tax authorities, and
the progress of ongoing tax audits. Settlement of a given tax contingency could
impact the income tax provision in the period of resolution. Our tax contingency
accruals are presented in the balance sheet within income taxes payable.

ACQUISITIONS

We account for acquired businesses using the purchase method of accounting which
requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the
date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Our consolidated financial
statements and results of operations reflect an acquired business after the
completion of the acquisition. The cost to acquire a business, including
transaction costs, is allocated to the underlying net assets of the acquired
business in proportion to their respective fair values. Any excess of the
purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is
recorded as goodwill. Amounts allocated to acquired in-process research and
development are expensed at the date of acquisition.

The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each
class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can
materially impact our results of operations. Accordingly, for significant items,
we typically obtain assistance from third party valuation specialists.


                                      -35-
<PAGE>

Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment as
different types of intangible assets will have different useful lives and
certain assets may even be considered to have indefinite useful lives.

All of these judgments and estimates can materially impact our results of
operations.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND COMMODITY HEDGING ACTIVITIES

Financial instruments reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are recorded
at cost which approximates fair value for cash and cash equivalents, accounts
receivable, certain other assets, accounts payable, and certain other
liabilities. Fair values are determined through a combination of management
estimates and information obtained from third parties using the latest available
market data. Long-term debt is carried at amortized cost.

We use derivative instruments in accordance with our established policies to
manage exposure to fluctuations in currency rates, certain commodity (e.g.,
natural gas) prices, interest rates and equity prices. Derivative instruments
currently utilized include currency forward contracts and swaps, natural gas
forward contracts and swaps, cross currency swaps and interest rate swaps. We do
not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative
purposes. We enter into financial instrument transactions with either major
financial institutions or highly-rated counterparties and make reasonable
attempts to diversify transactions among counterparties, thereby limiting
exposure to credit related and performance related risks.

We periodically enter into currency forward contracts primarily to hedge
currency fluctuations of transactions denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency of the business. The principal transactions hedged involve
accounts receivable, accounts payable and intercompany loans. When hedging
currency exposures, our practice is to hedge such exposures with forward
contracts denominated in the same currency and with similar critical terms as
the underlying exposure, and therefore, the instruments are effective at
generating offsetting changes in the fair value, cash flows or future earnings
of the hedged item or transaction. Currency forward contracts are reported as
either assets or liabilities with changes in their fair value recorded in other
income (expense), net together with offsetting gain or loss on the hedged asset
or liability.

We use cross currency swaps to synthetically convert some of our U.S. dollar
denominated debt to hedge future cash flows from euro interest and principal
receipts on certain euro denominated intercompany receivables we have with our
subsidiaries against changes in the US dollar to euro exchange rates. The cross
currency swaps are recorded as either assets or liabilities. Changes in fair
value include both an interest and an exchange component. The interest component
is recorded in other comprehensive income while the exchange component is
recorded in other income (expense), net together with the offsetting gain or
loss on the hedged intercompany receivables.

We use natural gas forward contracts, which are physically settled, to hedge
certain utility requirements. The maturities of these contracts correlate highly
to the actual purchases of the commodity and have the effect of securing
predetermined prices that we pay for the underlying commodity. While these
contracts are structured to limit our exposure to increases in commodity prices,
they can also limit the potential benefit we might have otherwise received from
decreases in commodity prices. Because we take physical delivery of the
commodity, these contracts are not required to be recognized on the balance
sheet at fair value. Instead, realized gains and losses are included in the cost
of the commodity upon settlement of the contract.

We also use natural gas swaps, which are financially settled, to hedge utility
requirements at certain of our other facilities. These swaps, which are highly
effective at achieving offsetting cash flows of the underlying natural gas
purchases, have been designated as cash flow hedges and are reported on the
consolidated balance sheets at fair value, with offsetting amounts included in
unrealized net (losses) gains on cash flow hedges on an after-tax basis. Gains
and losses are reclassified into earnings, as a component of manufacturing cost
of sales in the period the hedged natural gas purchases affect earnings.



                                      -36-
<PAGE>





ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                              CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 December 31,
                                                                              2005           2004
                                                                            --------       --------
Assets
Current assets
<S>                                                                         <C>            <C>
    Cash and cash equivalents                                               $   68.6       $  323.8
    Trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful
     accounts of $7.8 and $6.7 in 2005 and 2004, respectively                  493.8          248.2
    Due from related party                                                       8.0              -
    Other accounts receivable                                                   65.9           54.1
    Inventories                                                                446.6          263.8
    Deferred income taxes                                                       12.2           23.3
    Other current assets                                                        27.5           29.3
                                                                            -----------------------
Total current assets                                                         1,122.6          942.5
Investment in associated companies                                              20.3           85.5
Plants, equipment and facilities, at cost                                    2,064.3        1,627.2
    Less: accumulated depreciation                                           (988.8)        (948.6)
                                                                            -----------------------
Net plant investment                                                         1,075.5          678.6
Acquisition intangibles, net of accumulated
    amortization of $51.0 and $23.1  in
     2005 and 2004, respectively                                               491.5           66.8
Goodwill                                                                     1,012.2          342.4
Deferred income taxes                                                              -           54.6
Other assets                                                                    88.4           81.2
                                                                            -----------------------
Total assets                                                                $3,810.5       $2,251.6
                                                                            =======================
Liabilities
Current liabilities
    Accounts payable                                                        $  278.6       $  138.1
    Short-term borrowings                                                       34.3              -
    Current maturities of long-term debt                                        51.2          119.0
    Accrued expenses                                                           218.3          178.1
    Income taxes payable                                                        43.5           61.5
                                                                            -----------------------
Total current liabilities                                                      625.9          496.7
Long-term debt                                                               1,225.5          300.1
Pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities                           432.5          348.3
Other noncurrent liabilities                                                   224.4          174.5
Deferred income taxes                                                           64.1              -
Stockholders' equity
Preferred stock, 20,000,000 shares authorized;
    none issued and outstanding                                                    -              -
Common stock, $.01 par value per share, 150,000,000
    shares authorized; issued 48,132,640 shares                                  0.5            0.5
Additional paid-in capital                                                     235.6          122.8
Retained earnings                                                            1,149.7        1,108.5
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
    Unearned compensation                                                       (2.5)          (3.1)
    Minimum pension liability                                                 (115.6)        (108.5)
    Unrealized net gains (losses) on cash flow
     hedges                                                                      0.4           (0.5)
    Accumulated translation adjustments                                         28.2           73.3
                                                                            -----------------------
                                                                               (89.5)         (38.8)
Treasury stock, at cost, 1,833,812 shares in
   2005 and 8,297,863 shares in 2004                                           (58.2)        (261.0)
                                                                            -----------------------
Total stockholders' equity                                                   1,238.1          932.0
                                                                            -----------------------
Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                                  $3,810.5       $2,251.6
                                                                            =======================
</TABLE>
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                                      -37-

<PAGE>



                              CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       Years ended December 31,
                                                                                     2005      2004        2003
                                                                                   ------------------------------
<S>                                                                                <C>       <C>         <C>
Net sales                                                                          $2,925.7  $1,721.3    $1,471.8
Manufacturing cost of sales                                                         2,313.7   1,303.1     1,111.9
Selling and technical services                                                        213.6     139.8       126.9
Research and process development                                                       68.5      40.0        35.2
Administrative and general                                                            102.1      65.1        49.7
Amortization of acquisition intangibles                                                30.3       5.6         4.0
Write-off of acquired in-process research and development                              37.0         -           -
                                                                                   ------------------------------
Earnings from operations                                                              160.5     167.7       144.1
Other income (expense), net                                                           (44.9)     16.9        (5.7)
Equity in earnings of associated companies                                              7.9       5.2         7.2
Interest expense, net                                                                  80.0      17.4        16.2
                                                                                   ------------------------------
Earnings from continuing operations before
 income taxes and cumulative effect of
 accounting change                                                                     43.5     172.4       129.4
Income tax (benefit) provision                                                        (14.4)     41.4        36.6
                                                                                   ------------------------------
Earnings from continuing operations before
 cumulative effect of accounting change                                                57.9     131.0        92.8
Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes                                      -         -       (13.6)
                                                                                   ------------------------------
Earnings from continuing operations                                                    57.9     131.0        79.2
Earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes                                     1.2         -           -
                                                                                   ------------------------------
Net earnings                                                                           59.1     131.0        79.2
Premium paid to redeem preferred stock                                                    -       9.9           -
                                                                                   ------------------------------
Net earnings available to common stockholders                                      $   59.1  $  121.1    $   79.2
                                                                                   ==============================
Basic net earnings per common share:
    Earnings from continuing operations before
     cumulative effect of accounting change                                        $   1.28  $   3.06    $   2.38
    Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes                                  -         -       (0.35)
    Earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes                                0.03         -           -
                                                                                   ------------------------------
    Net earnings available to common stockholders                                  $   1.31  $   3.06    $   2.03
                                                                                   ==============================
Diluted net earnings per common share:
    Earnings from continuing operations before
     cumulative effect of accounting change                                        $   1.25  $   2.96    $   2.31
    Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes                                  -         -       (0.34)
    Earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes                                0.02         -           -
                                                                                   ------------------------------
    Net earnings available to common stockholders                                  $   1.27  $   2.96    $   1.97
                                                                                   ==============================
Dividends per common share                                                         $   0.40  $   0.40    $      -
                                                                                   ==============================



See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
</TABLE>

                                      -38-
<PAGE>




                              CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                        Years ended December 31,
                                                                         2005         2004         2003
                                                                     ----------------------------------
Cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities
<S>                                                                 <C>             <C>         <C>
Net earnings                                                        $    59.1       $131.0      $  79.2
Earnings from discontinued operations, net of taxes                       1.2            -            -
                                                                     ----------------------------------
Earnings from continuing opeations                                       57.9        131.0         79.2
Noncash items included in earnings from continuing operations:
    Dividends from associated companies less than
     earnings                                                            (5.4)        (2.6)        (1.8)
    Depreciation                                                        110.8         86.6         85.9
    Amortization                                                         39.0         12.2          7.7
    Deferred income taxes                                               (25.0)        19.6         15.7
    Write-off of acquired in-process research and development            37.0            -            -
    Amortization of write-up to fair value of finished goods
     purchased in acquisition                                            20.8            -            -
    Gains on sale of assets                                              (1.3)           -            -
    Unrealized net gains on derivative instruments                          -         (7.9)           -
    Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes                    -            -         13.6
    Other                                                                 3.0          0.7         (0.5)
Changes in operating assets and liabilities (excluding effect of
 acquisitions):
    Trade accounts receivable                                           (12.9)       (24.1)        13.6
    Other receivables                                                    31.7         (2.0)        (7.9)
    Inventories                                                           9.5        (46.8)       (15.2)
    Other assets                                                         21.5          0.4         (1.1)
    Accounts payable                                                      2.8         36.5        (13.4)
    Accrued expenses                                                    (19.3)        (7.3)        (8.6)
    Income taxes payable                                                (42.6)         7.9          9.2
    Other liabilities                                                       -        (36.8)       (44.0)
                                                                    -----------------------------------
Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing
   operations                                                           227.5        167.4        132.4
Net cash provided by operating activities of discontinued
   operations                                                             4.9            -            -
                                                                    -----------------------------------
Net cash provided by operating activities                               232.4        167.4        132.4
Cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities
    Acquisition of businesses, net of cash received                  (1,459.1)        (4.6)      (101.6)
    Additions to plants, equipment and
     facilities                                                        (105.3)       (89.3)       (93.8)
    Proceeds received on sale of assets                                 105.5          0.7          0.1
    Proceeds received on sale of discontinued business                   74.3            -            -
    Minority interests                                                   (0.6)           -            -
    Advance payment received on land lease                                  -          9.1            -
                                                                    -----------------------------------
Net cash used in investing activities                                (1,385.2)       (84.1)      (195.3)
                                                                    -----------------------------------
Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities
    Proceeds from long-term debt                                      1,438.4            -        198.9
    Payments on long-term debt                                         (571.9)           -       (100.0)
    Change in short-term borrowings                                      45.9         (9.3)        (0.3)
    Cash dividends                                                      (17.8)       (15.7)           -
    Proceeds from the exercise of stock options and
     warrants                                                            17.7         24.6         14.5
    Deferred financing cost                                              (5.9)           -            -
    Purchase of treasury stock                                              -        (13.1)       (27.7)
    Redemption of Series C preferred stock                                  -        (10.0)           -
    Proceeds from termination of interest rate swap                         -          2.9            -
                                                                    -----------------------------------
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                     906.4        (20.6)        85.4
                                                                    -----------------------------------
Effect of currency rate changes on cash and cash equivalents             (8.8)        10.0         18.6
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                       (255.2)        72.7         41.1
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year                            323.8        251.1        210.0
                                                                    -----------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year                              $    68.6       $323.8      $ 251.1
                                                                    ===================================

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
</TABLE>




                                      -39-
<PAGE>





                              CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                              (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                                         Additional Unrealized net
Years ended                                  Additional         Unearned Minimum    (losses) gains Accumulated
December 31, 2005,         Preferred Common  Paid-in   Retained Compen-  Pension    on Derivative  Translation  Treasury
2004 and 2003               Stock    Stock   Capital   Earnings sation   Liability  Instruments    Adjustments  Stock     Total
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Balance at
<S>                      <C>     <C>      <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>         <C>        <C>           <C>        <C>
    December 31, 2002      $  0.1   $  0.5  $ 131.1    $  924.2  $  (6.8)  $ (98.0)    $    -     $ (18.8)      $ (290.7)  $641.6
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net earnings                    -        -        -        79.2        -         -          -           -               -  $ 79.2
Other comprehensive
  income:
  Minimum pension
    liability
    adjustment,
    net of taxes of $2.4        -        -        -           -        -       1.2          -           -              -      1.2
  Unrealized net
    gains on
    derivative
    instruments                 -        -        -           -        -         -        0.3           -              -      0.3
  Translation
    adjustments                 -        -        -           -        -         -          -        56.8              -     56.8
                                                                                                                           ------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                       $137.5
Award of, and changes in,
    performance and
    restricted stock            -        -      2.3           -     (0.4)        -          -           -           (1.7)     0.2
Amortization of
    performance
    and restricted
    stock                       -        -        -           -      1.9         -          -           -              -      1.9
Purchase of treasury
    stock                       -        -        -           -        -         -          -           -          (27.7)   (27.7)
Exercise of stock
    options                     -        -    (19.1)          -        -         -          -           -           33.6     14.5
Tax benefit on
    stock options               -        -      7.9           -        -         -          -            -             -      7.9
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at
    December 31, 2003      $  0.1   $  0.5   $122.2    $1,003.4  $  (5.3)  $ (96.8)    $  0.3     $  38.0       $ (286.5)  $775.9
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net earnings                    -        -        -       131.0        -         -          -           -              -   $131.0
Other comprehensive
    income
  Minimum pension
    liability adjustment,
    net of taxes
    of $17.6                    -        -        -           -        -     (11.7)         -           -              -    (11.7)
  Unrealized net gains on
    derivative
    instruments                 -        -        -           -        -         -       (0.8)          -              -     (0.8)
  Translation
    adjustments                 -        -        -           -        -         -          -        35.3              -     35.3
                                                                                                                           -------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                       $153.8
Award of, and changes in,
    performance and
    restricted stock            -        -      2.6           -     (2.4)        -          -           -            0.3      0.5
Amortization of
    performance
    and restricted stock        -        -        -           -      4.6         -          -           -              -      4.6
Purchase of treasury
    stock                       -        -        -           -        -         -          -           -          (13.1)   (13.1)
Redemption of
    preferred
    stock                    (0.1)       -        -        (9.9)       -         -          -           -              -    (10.0)
Dividends:
    Common stock
      outstanding               -        -        -       (15.7)       -         -          -           -              -    (15.7)
    Deferred and unvested
      common stock              -        -        -        (0.3)       -         -          -           -              -     (0.3)
Exercise of
    stock options               -        -    (13.7)          -        -         -          -           -           38.3     24.6
Tax benefit on
    stock options               -        -     11.7           -        -         -          -           -              -     11.7
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
</TABLE>


                                      -40-
<PAGE>



                              CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.
           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
                              (Dollars in millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>   <C>    <C>      <C>         <C>     <C>         <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>
Balance at
    December 31, 2004                $ -   $0.5   $ 122.8  $ 1,108.5   $  (3.1)$ (108.5)   $  (0.5)  $  73.3  $(261.0)  $  932.0
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net earnings                           -       -        -       59.1         -        -          -         -        -   $   59.1
Other comprehensive
    income:
      Minimum pension
        liability adjustment,
        net of taxes of $7.3           -       -        -          -         -    (11.7)         -         -        -      (11.7)
      Reduction in minimum
        pension liability resulting
        from divestiture of CYRO       -       -        -          -         -      4.6          -         -        -        4.6
      Unrealized net gains on
        derivative instruments         -       -        -          -         -        -        0.9         -        -        0.9
      Translation adjustments          -       -        -          -         -        -          -     (45.1)       -      (45.1)
                                                                                                                        --------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                    $    7.8
Award of, and changes in,
    performance and
    restricted stock                   -       -      1.7          -      (2.1)       -          -         -     (0.1)      (0.5)
Amortization of performance
    and restricted stock               -       -        -          -       2.7        -          -         -        -        2.7
Issuance of common stock
    related to acquisition             -       -    109.2          -         -        -          -         -    181.6      290.8
Dividends:
    Common stock
      outstanding                      -       -        -      (17.8)        -        -          -         -        -      (17.8)
    Deferred and unvested
      common stock                     -       -        -       (0.1)        -        -          -         -        -       (0.1)
Exercise of stock options              -       -     (3.6)         -         -        -          -         -     21.3       17.7
Tax benefit on
    stock options                      -       -      5.5          -         -        -          -         -        -        5.5
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at
    December 31, 2005                $ -   $ 0.5  $ 235.6  $ 1,149.7   $  (2.5) $(115.6)   $   0.4   $  28.2  $ (58.2)  $1,238.1
================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


                                      -41-
<PAGE>



                              CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
            (CURRENCIES IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS, UNLESS
                              OTHERWISE INDICATED)


1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

A. NATURE OF BUSINESS AND CONSOLIDATION POLICY: We are a global specialty
chemicals and materials company focused on developing, manufacturing and selling
value-added products. Our products serve a diverse range of end markets
including aerospace, adhesives, automotive and industrial coatings, chemical
intermediates, inks, mining, plastics and water treatment. We use our technology
and application development expertise to create chemical and material solutions
that are formulated to perform specific and important functions in the finished
products of our customers. We operate on a global basis with 40% of our 2005
revenues in North America, 40% in Europe, 14% in Asia-Pacific and 6% in Latin
America. We have manufacturing and research facilities located in 20 countries.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Cytec and our
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Intercompany transactions and balances
have been eliminated. The equity method of accounting is used for investments in
associated companies that we do not control, but for which we have the ability
to exercise significant influence on operating and financial policy.

B. INVENTORIES: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. We
determine cost using the first in, first out method.

C. CURRENCY TRANSLATION: Operations in our international subsidiaries are
recorded in local currencies which are also the functional currencies for
financial reporting purposes. The results of operations for our international
subsidiaries are translated from local currencies into U.S. dollars using the
average currency rate during each period which approximates the results that
would be obtained using actual currency rates on the dates of individual
transactions. Assets and liabilities are translated using currency rates at the
end of the period with translation adjustments recorded in accumulated
translation adjustments and recognized as a component of other comprehensive
income. Transaction gains and losses are recorded as incurred in other income
(expense), net.

D. DEPRECIATION: Depreciation is provided on either the straight-line or the
straight-line composite method. Assets acquired in conjunction with the Surface
Specialties business ("Surface Specialties") of UCB SA ("UCB") and assets
outside the United States and Canada are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Depreciation for the remainder of
our assets in the United States and Canada is provided primarily on a
straight-line composite method over the estimated useful lives of various
classes of assets, with rates periodically reviewed and adjusted if necessary.
When such depreciable assets are sold or otherwise retired from service, their
costs plus demolition costs less amounts realized on sale or salvage are charged
or credited to the accumulated depreciation account. Expenditures for
maintenance and repairs are charged to current operating expenses. Acquisitions,
additions and betterments, either to provide necessary capacity, improve the
efficiency of production units, modernize or replace older facilities or to
install equipment for protection of the environment, are capitalized. We
capitalize interest costs incurred during the period of construction of plants
and equipment.

E. IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS AND LONG-LIVED ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED:
Long-lived assets and intangible assets with determinable useful lives are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of
assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of
the assets to the future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by
the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be
recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets
exceeds the fair value of the assets and would be charged to earnings. Assets to
be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value
less the costs to sell. Intangible assets are amortized over their respective
estimated useful lives. Long-lived assets with indefinite useful lives are
tested for impairment annually and more often if circumstances warrant.

F. GOODWILL: We have defined our reportable segments as our reporting units for
our goodwill accounting. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis in
our fourth fiscal quarter and more often if events occur or circumstances change
that would likely reduce the fair value of a reporting unit to an amount below
its carrying value. When necessary, we record charges for goodwill impairments
for the amount by which the fair value is less than the carrying value of the
asset.

We use a two-step process to test goodwill for impairment. First, the reporting
unit's fair value is compared to its carrying value. We utilize a market
multiple approach to determine fair value estimates. Due to the cyclical nature
of our reporting units, market multiple values are determined utilizing a
three-year average. The three-year period is comprised of the prior year,
current year and one year of projected amounts. If the market multiple approach
yields a result, which may indicate a possible impairment, a discounted cash
flow approach is utilized to more precisely determine the reporting units' fair
value. If a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, an
indication exists that the reporting unit's goodwill may be impaired, and the
second step of the impairment test would be performed. The second step of the
goodwill impairment test is used to measure the amount of the impairment loss.
In the second step, the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill is
determined by allocating the reporting unit's fair value to all of its assets
and liabilities other than goodwill in a manner similar to a purchase price
allocation. The resulting implied fair value of the goodwill that results from
the application of this second step is then compared to the carrying amount of
the goodwill and an impairment charge would be recorded for the difference.



                                      -42-
<PAGE>

G. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS: Securities with maturities of three months or less
when purchased are considered to be cash equivalents.

H. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: Financial instruments are recorded at cost which
approximates fair value for cash and cash equivalents, receivables, certain
other assets, accounts payable, and certain other liabilities. Fair values are
determined through a combination of management estimates and information
obtained from third parties using the latest available market data. Long-term
debt is carried at amortized cost.

We use derivative instruments in accordance with our established policies to
manage exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, interest rates and
certain commodity (e.g., natural gas) prices. We do not hold or issue derivative
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. We enter into
financial instrument transactions with either major financial institutions or
highly-rated counterparties and make reasonable attempts to diversify
transactions among counterparties, thereby limiting exposure to credit related
and performance related risks.

We use currency forward contracts to manage our exposure to fluctuations in
currency rates on transactions denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency of the business. Our practice is to hedge such exposures
with forward contracts denominated in the same currency and with similar
critical terms as the underlying exposure, and therefore, the instruments are
effective at generating offsetting changes in the fair value, cash flows or
future earnings of the hedged item or transaction. These contracts are reported
at their fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income
(expense), net, together with the offsetting gain or loss on the exposed asset
or liability.

We use cross currency swaps to hedge future cash flows from euro interest and
principal receipts on certain euro denominated intercompany receivables we have
with our subsidiaries against changes in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rates.
The cross currency swaps are recorded at fair value as either assets or
liabilities. Changes in fair value include both an interest and an exchange
component. The interest component is recorded in other comprehensive income
while the exchange component is recorded in other income (expense), net together
with the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged intercompany receivables.

We use both forward contracts and swaps to hedge certain of our utility
requirements at our manufacturing facilities. The maturities of the forward
contracts correlate highly to the actual purchases of the commodity and have the
effect of securing predetermined prices that we pay for the underlying
commodity. While these contracts are structured to limit our exposure to
increases in commodity prices, they can also limit the potential benefit we
might have otherwise received from decreases in commodity prices.

Forward contracts that are physically settled are not required to be recognized
on the balance sheet at fair value. Instead, realized gains and losses are
included in the cost of the commodity upon settlement of the contract.

Financially settled forward contracts and swaps on commodities are reported at
fair value with offsetting amounts included in unrealized net gains (losses) on
cash flow hedges on an after-tax basis. Gains and losses are reclassified into
earnings, as a component of manufacturing cost of sales in the period the hedged
commodity purchases affect earnings.

See Note 2 for information about our interest rate swap and currency forward
contract activity in connection with our acquisition of Surface Specialties.

I. ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER CONTINGENT LIABILITIES: Accruals for environmental
remediation, maintenance and operating costs directly related to remediation,
and other contingent liabilities are recorded when it is probable that a
liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably
estimated.

It is our practice to conduct an analysis of our self-insured and insured
contingent liabilities annually and whenever circumstances change significantly.
Included in these liabilities are workers' compensation, product liability and
toxic tort claims.

Accruals for environmental liabilities and other contingent liabilities are
recorded as other liabilities with amounts expected to be paid out in the next
twelve months classified as accrued expenses at undiscounted amounts.


                                      -43-
<PAGE>


Probable insurance recoveries for past and future indemnity costs are recorded
in other receivables at our best estimate of the ultimate expected receipts at
undiscounted amounts. Defense and processing costs are expensed as incurred.
Probable insurance recoveries for defense and processing costs relate only to
actual costs incurred.

In addition, we recognize the fair value of the liability for an asset
retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable
estimate of fair value can be made. The present value of the liability is added
to the carrying amount of the associated asset and this additional carrying
amount is depreciated over the life of the asset. The liability is accreted at
the end of each period through charges to operating expense. If the obligation
is settled for other than the carrying amount of the liability we recognize a
gain or loss on settlement.

 J. INCOME TAXES: Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability
method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
basis and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is
provided when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the
deferred tax assets will not be realized. We measure deferred tax assets and
liabilities using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the
years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or
settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax
rates is recognized in earnings in the period that includes the enactment date.
If repatriation of the undistributed earnings of our international subsidiaries
and associated companies is anticipated then income taxes are provided for such
earnings.

K. POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS: Costs are recognized as employees render the
services necessary to earn the related benefits.

L. REVENUE RECOGNITION: We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, the selling price is fixed or determinable, collection is
reasonably assured and title and risk of loss has passed to our customers.
Customer rebates are estimated and recognized as a reduction of sales as such
rebates are being earned.

M. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION: We account for our stock based compensation under
the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK ISSUED TO Employees ("APB 25") and related
interpretations. No stock-based compensation cost is reflected in net earnings
for stock options, as all options granted had an exercise price equal to the
market value of the underlying common stock on the date of the grant.
Compensation cost for restricted stock is recorded based on the market value on
the date of grant, and compensation cost for performance stock is recorded based
on the market price of our common stock at the end of each period through the
date of vesting. The fair value of restricted and performance stock is charged
to unearned compensation in Stockholders' Equity and amortized to expense over
the requisite vesting periods. Stock appreciation rights ("SARS") payable in
cash and outstanding at December 31, 2005 are accounted for as a liability under
APB 25. Compensation cost for SARS is recognized over the vesting period and
through the life of the award based on changes in the market price of our common
stock over the market price at the grant date.

The following table illustrates the pro forma effect on net earnings available
to common stockholders and net earnings available to common stockholders per
share if we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION ("SFAS
123") to stock-based employee compensation (see Note 15 for information related
to our stock option valuation assumptions). Option forfeitures are accounted for
as they occurred and no amounts of compensation expense have been capitalized
into inventory or other assets, but instead are considered period expenses in
these pro forma amounts.


                                      -44-
<PAGE>



- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              2005     2004    2003
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net earnings available to common
  stockholders as reported                    $59.1   $121.1   $79.2
Add: Stock based employee compensation
  expense included in reported net income,
  net of related tax effects                    1.6      3.0     1.3
Deduct: Total stock based employee
  compensation expense determined under
  fair value based method for all awards,
  net of related tax effects                    7.3      7.1     7.8
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pro forma net earnings available to
  common stockholders                         $53.4   $117.0   $72.7
========================================================================
Net earnings available to common
  stockholders per share:
  Basic, as reported                         $ 1.31   $ 3.06   $2.03
  Basic, pro forma                           $ 1.18   $ 2.96   $1.87
  Diluted, as reported                       $ 1.27   $ 2.96   $1.97
  Diluted, pro forma                         $ 1.15   $ 2.87   $1.81


N. NEWLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS:

In December, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), SHARE-BASED
PAYMENT, ("SFAS 123R"). SFAS 123R addresses the accounting for transactions in
which an enterprise receives employee services in exchange for (a) equity
instruments of the enterprise or (b) liabilities that are based on the fair
value of the enterprise's equity instruments or that may be settled by the
issuance of such equity instruments. When SFAS 123R becomes effective, it will
replace SFAS 123 and supersede APB 25 and will require companies to recognize
compensation cost in an amount equal to the fair value of share-based payments,
such as stock options granted to employees. As required, we will adopt the new
standard effective January 1, 2006 utilizing the modified prospective basis as
allowed under SFAS 123R and we expect to record pre-tax incremental share-based
employee compensation expense of $10.5 in 2006.

In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS123(R)-3, "Transition Election to
Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share Based Payment Awards." This FSP requires
an entity to follow either the transition guidance for the additional paid-in
capital pool as prescribed in SFAS No. 123R or the alternative transition method
as described in the FSP. An entity that adopts SFAS No. 123R using the modified
prospective application may make a one-time election to adopt the transition
method described in this FSP. An entity may take up to one year from the later
of its initial adoption of SFAS No. 123R or the effective date of this FSP to
evaluate its available transition alternatives and make its on-time election.
This FSP became effective in November 2005. We are evaluating the impact of the
adoption of this FSP in connection with our adoption of SFAS No. 123R.

In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs - An amendment
of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4" ("SFAS 151"). SFAS 151 amends the guidance in ARB No.
43, Chapter 4, "Inventory Pricing," to clarify the accounting for abnormal
amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs, and wasted material
(spoilage). Additionally, SFAS No. 151 requires that the allocation of fixed
production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity
of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 is required to be adopted by us in
the first quarter of 2006. We have determined that the adoption of SFAS 151 will
not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

O. USE OF ESTIMATES: The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require management to make
estimates and assumptions. These estimates or assumptions affect the reported
amounts and disclosures. For example, estimates are used when accounting for
allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuations, useful lives of tangible
and intangible assets, recoverability of goodwill, accrued expenses,
environmental and other contingent liabilities, pension and other postretirement
benefits, income tax valuation allowances and assumptions utilized within stock
option valuation models. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Accounting estimates require the use of judgment regarding uncertain future
events and their related effects and, accordingly, may change as additional
information is obtained.


                                      -45-
<PAGE>





2. ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

2005 ACTIVITY

On February 28, 2005, we acquired the Surface Specialties for cash and stock
valued at $1,799.7, of which $1,508.9 ((euro)1,138.5 at 1.325 U.S. dollar per
euro) was paid in cash and the balance was paid in 5,772,857 shares of Cytec
common stock ($290.8 at $50.37 per Cytec share). During September 2005, we
received $25.4 from UCB representing a reduction of the purchase price for
finalization of working capital amounts as of the acquisition date. After
considering the final working capital adjustment and transaction costs incurred
of $14.9, the acquisition was valued at $1,789.2. The acquisition complements
our existing product lines by significantly increasing our product offering to
the coatings and additives industries including the general industrial,
automotive, architectural, plastic, graphic arts and wood sectors.

In accordance with the purchase agreement, contingent consideration up to a
maximum of (euro)50.0 was to be determined in January 2006 based upon 2005
year-end results, of which (euro)20.0 ($26.5 at $1.325 per euro) was prepaid at
closing. In view of the parties' expectation that the contingent consideration
would not be payable, we were refunded the payment during September 2005
provided that a final year-end determination of the actual contingent payment
due, if any, would still be made. Subsequently, we determined that no amounts
were due under this agreement.

Upon closing, UCB became the owner of approximately 12.5% of our outstanding
common shares. We entered into a stockholder's agreement (the "Stockholder's
Agreement") with UCB which provides, subject to various exceptions, that UCB
must reduce its stake to less than 9% within three years, less than 7% within
four years and less than 5% within five years and which provides that UCB will
be prohibited from purchasing additional shares of our common stock or causing,
advocating or participating in a change of control in the ownership of Cytec.
The Stockholder's Agreement also contains customary terms and conditions
including an obligation of UCB to vote its shares of Cytec common stock in
accordance with our Board of Directors' recommendation on certain matters.

Pursuant to regulatory approvals, we were required to divest the Surface
Specialties amino resins ("SSAR") product line. On August 31, 2005, we sold SSAR
to affiliates of INEOS Group Limited ("INEOS") for cash consideration of
(euro)64.0 ($78.2 at 1.22 U.S. dollar per euro). In the fourth quarter we paid
$1.6 to INEOS representing a reduction of the selling price for final working
capital adjustments as of the acquisition date. After considering the final
working capital adjustment, the sale was valued at $76.6 ($72.8 net of
disposition related expenses of $3.8). Since acquisition, and through the date
of sale, SSAR was classified as a discontinued operation. Revenues of SSAR were
$74.3 for the six months ended August 31, 2005 (acquisition through date of
sale). The net proceeds realized from the divestiture of SSAR were used to
reduce acquisition related debt. At December 31, 2005, of the $3.8 of
disposition related expenses, $1.5 remained to be paid.

In late 2004, we entered into $642.9 of forward-starting interest rate swaps to
hedge the benchmark interest rate and credit spread on certain debt anticipated
to be issued in 2005 in connection with the acquisition. Due to a subsequent
reduction in borrowing requirements, we liquidated $25.0 of these swaps in March
2005 at a cost of $0.4 and $60.4 of these swaps in June 2005 at a cost of $3.7.
In September 2005, we settled the remaining outstanding swaps at the same time
that we priced our public debt offering. The termination payment of $27.4 was
paid in October 2005. The swaps were marked to market and recorded currently in
earnings until their termination. The net pre-tax impact of the mark to market
value on these swaps was a loss of $25.0 for the year ended December 31, 2005,
which was recorded in other income (expense), net. We recorded a loss of $6.5 on
these swaps in 2004.

We had also previously entered into currency forward contracts that related to
approximately 87% of the euro exposure of (euro)1,190.0 for the cash component
of the Surface Specialties acquisition. The forward contracts, which matured on
February 28, 2005, were marked to market and recorded currently in earnings
until their maturity. The impact on earnings for the three months ended March
31, 2005 of the marked to market adjustment on these forward contracts was a net
pre-tax expense of $19.2 and was recorded in other income (expense), net. In
2004, we recorded a gain of $33.3 on currency forward transactions entered into
in connection with the acquisition.

The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of the assets acquired
and the liabilities assumed in the acquisition. We have substantially completed
the purchase price allocation and our own internal assessment. As part of this
assessment we contracted with a third party to perform a physical verification
of the fixed assets acquired at certain significant manufacturing facilities. We
are awaiting the final report of the third party. Accordingly, the property,
plant and equipment, goodwill and deferred taxes are subject to a final
adjustment.


                                      -46-
<PAGE>


- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash                                                          $ 34.6
Current deferred tax assets                                     27.8
Other current assets                                           532.7
Assets of discontinued operations                               91.8
Property, plant and equipment                                  449.2
Goodwill                                                       728.3
Acquired intangible assets                                     490.4
Acquired in-process research and development                    37.0
Other assets                                                    34.2
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Total assets acquired                                       $2,426.0
=====================================================================
Current liabilities                                          $ 286.1
Liabilities of discontinued operations                          26.5
Long-term deferred tax liabilities                             187.3
Long-term debt                                                   9.9
Other long-term liabilities                                    127.0
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Total liabilities assumed                                      636.8
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Net assets acquired                                         $1,789.2
=====================================================================

The $728.3 of goodwill is not tax deductible and, $38.0 was allocated to our
Cytec Performance Chemicals segment and $690.3 was allocated to our Cytec
Surface Specialties segment. Included in acquired intangible assets is $45.7
relating to certain trade names which have indefinite useful lives. The
remaining intangibles that were acquired were assigned to customer-related
($382.6), marketing-related ($50.8) and technology-related intangibles ($11.3),
and are being amortized over periods of 10 to 15 years. Immediately following
the acquisition, $37.0 of acquired in-process research and development costs
were written off.

Following are the unaudited pro forma combined results of continuing operations
for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 as if Cytec and Surface
Specialties had been combined and the sale of SSAR had been completed as of
January 1, 2004. Additionally, the write-off of in-process research and
development costs and inventory valuation adjustments were excluded from the
2005 and 2004 amounts as they are considered non-recurring charges. The pro
forma results include estimates and assumptions which are subject to adjustment
pending our finalization of the purchase price allocation. However, pro forma
results do not include any anticipated cost savings or other effects of the
planned integration and are not indicative of the results which would have
actually occurred if the business combination had been in effect on the dates
indicated, or which may result in the future. The pro forma information set
forth below considers the following factors: the issuance of 5,772,857 shares of
our common stock to UCB in connection with the acquisition; the issuance of
acquisition-related debt of $1,325.0 at a weighted-average interest rate of
3.79% and the associated increase in interest expense, net of the after tax
proceeds from the sale of SSAR used to pay down such debt; a net reduction in
cash and an associated reduction in interest income as a result of the on-hand
cash utilized to purchase Surface Specialties; increased amortization of
acquisition intangibles; decreased depreciation expense based on asset values
and estimated useful lives included in the valuation report; amortization of
deferred financing costs; and the tax effects of each of these items.



                                                     Years Ended December 31,
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      2005            2004
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Revenues                                          $3,150.6         $ 2,917.3
Earnings from continuing operations               $  110.8         $   164.4

Earnings from continuing operations
  per common share:
  Basic                                           $   2.40         $    3.63
  Diluted                                         $   2.34         $    3.53
===============================================================================



On June 1, 2005, we sold our 50% ownership in CYRO Industries ("CYRO") to our
joint venture partner Degussa Specialty Polymers, an affiliate of Degussa AG,
for cash consideration of $95.0 plus $5.4 for working capital adjustments. The
proceeds of this transaction essentially recovered the carrying value of our
investment in CYRO. Net proceeds of the sale were also used to reduce debt
incurred to fund the Surface Specialties acquisition.

2003 TRANSACTIONS: In July 2003, we acquired substantially all of the assets and
liabilities of the metal extractant products ("MEP") and intermediates and
stabilizers ("I&S") product lines of Avecia Investments Limited ("Avecia") for
approximately $96.1 in cash, net of cash acquired. The MEP product line, which
had sales in 2002 of approximately $29.0 (unaudited) broadened our product line
for the mining industry with differentiated technology. The I&S product line
broadened our customer base and added new products and manufacturing
technologies. The I&S product line had sales in 2002 of approximately $36.0
(unaudited). Both the MEP and I&S product lines are reported as part of the
Cytec Performance Chemicals segment.


                                      -47-
<PAGE>

In conjunction with this acquisition, we acquired various working capital and
plant, equipment and facilities and recorded amortizable acquisition intangibles
of $24.4 (technology-based intangibles of $9.1, marketing-related intangibles of
$0.7, and customer-related intangibles of $14.6 with estimated lives ranging
from 12 to 15 years) and goodwill of $8.4. This goodwill is recorded as part of
the Cytec Performance Chemicals segment.

In September 2003, we dissolved our Mitsui Cytec Ltd ("MCY") joint venture with
Mitsui Chemicals Inc. ("Mitsui"). The joint venture's sales in 2002 were
approximately $59.0. The transaction resulted in the recognition of
customer-related amortizable acquisition intangibles of $7.0 and goodwill of
$4.6. This goodwill is recorded as part of the Cytec Surface Specialties
segment.

The dissolution of the joint venture occurred as follows. MCY sold the water
treatment business to a separate subsidiary of Mitsui for its fair value which
approximated its net book value of approximately $8.8. No gain or loss resulted
from this transaction. Mitsui's equity interest in MCY was then purchased by us
for approximately $11.5 in a two-step process whereby MCY paid approximately
$7.8 and we paid approximately $3.7 for the remainder. We assumed the debt of
the joint venture of $9.7.

The result of the transaction was such that we now own 100% of MCY's coatings
resins product line (2002 sales of approximately $22.0) and the associated
assets and liabilities of the product line that includes a manufacturing
facility in Shimonoseki, Japan. This is now reported as part of the Cytec
Surface Specialties segment. Mitsui now owns 100% of the water treatment product
line and the associated assets and liabilities of the product line that includes
a production facility in Mobarra, Japan.

All of our acquisitions have been accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting and the results of operations have been included in the consolidated
financial statements from the date of acquisition.

3. RESTRUCTURING OF OPERATIONS

In 2005, we recorded aggregate restructuring charges of $16.8, which related to
the elimination of 136 positions worldwide. Of the total of 136 positions, 22
related to our Cytec Engineered Materials segment and 114 related to our
Specialty Chemicals segments. The restructuring costs, which were primarily
severance related, were charged to expense as follows: manufacturing cost of
sales, $5.0; selling and technical services, $3.7; research and process
development, $0.8 and administrative and general, $7.3. These costs were not
recorded in the operating results of the respective business segment as they
were included in our corporate unallocated operating results.

A summary of the 2005 restructuring charges is outlined in the table below:


                                     CYTEC
                                     ENGINEERED      CYTEC SPECIALTY
                                     MATERIALS         CHEMICALS       TOTAL
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
2005 charges                            $1.6            $ 15.2       $16.8
Cash payments                              -               6.3         6.3
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at
December 31, 2005                      $ 1.6              $8.9      $ 10.5
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------


Cash payments are expected to be substantially completed in 2006 except for
certain long-term severance payments.

4. EARNINGS PER SHARE

Basic earnings per common share excludes dilution and is computed by utilizing
the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding (which includes shares
outstanding less performance and restricted shares for which vesting criteria
have not been met) plus deferred stock awards, weighted for the period
outstanding. Diluted earnings per common share is computed by utilizing the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period adjusted
(i.e., increased) for all additional common shares that would have been
outstanding if potentially dilutive common shares had been issued and any
proceeds of the issuance had been used to repurchase common stock at the average
market price during the period. The proceeds used to repurchase common stock are
assumed to be the sum of the amount to be paid to us upon exercise of options,
the amount of compensation cost attributed to future services and not yet
recognized and the amount of income taxes that would be credited to or deducted
from capital upon exercise. Preferred stock dividends were paid on preferred
shares through the date at which it was redeemed.


                                      -48-
<PAGE>



In calculating basic and diluted earnings available to common stockholders per
share, there are no adjustments to income (the numerator) other than the premium
paid to redeem preferred stock of $9.9 in 2004. The following shows the
reconciliation of the weighted average shares (the denominator) used in the
calculation of diluted earnings per share:


- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31,                               2005         2004        2003
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average shares outstanding:   45,241,738    39,548,312  38,957,611
Effect of dilutive shares:
 Options                                1,044,924     1,148,311   1,082,652
 Performance/Restricted Stock              95,487       133,328     118,413
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Adjusted average shares outstanding    46,382,149    40,829,951  40,158,676
===========================================================================

Stock options to purchase 912,200, 407,450 and 1,328,100 shares of common stock
at a weighted-average price per share of $47.82, $48.10 and $43.25 were
outstanding during 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. These stock options were
excluded from the above calculation because their inclusion would have had an
anti-dilutive effect on earnings per share.

5. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND COMMODITY HEDGING ACTIVITIES

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

In September 2005, we entered into (euro)207.9 of five year cross currency swaps
and (euro)207.9 of ten year cross currency swaps. The swaps included an initial
exchange of $500.0 on October 4, 2005 and will require final principal exchanges
of $250.0 each on the settlement date of the 5-Year Note due October 1, 2010 and
10-Year Notes due October 1, 2015 as defined in Note 10. At the initial
principal exchange, we paid U.S. dollars to counterparties and received euros.
Upon final exchange, we will provide euros to counterparties and receive U.S.
dollars. The swaps also call for a semi-annual exchange of fixed euro interest
payments for fixed U.S. dollar interest receipts. With respect to the five year
swaps, we will receive 5.5% per annum and will pay 3.784% per annum on each
April 1 and October 1, through the maturity date of the five year swaps. With
respect to the ten year swaps, we will receive 6.0% per annum and will pay
4.5245% per annum on each April 1 and October 1, through the maturity date of
the ten year swaps. The cross currency swaps have been designated as cash flow
hedges of the changes in value of the future euro interest and principal
receipts that result from changes in the U.S. dollar to euro exchange rates on
certain euro denominated intercompany receivables we have with our subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2005, the fair values of the five and ten year swaps were $5.8
and $2.7, respectively. Euro denominated bank borrowings naturally hedge the
remainder of our euro denominated intercompany loans receivable and provide a
partial hedge of our net investment in our Belgium based subsidiary, Cytec
Surface Specialties SA/NV.

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the currency and net contractual amounts of
forward contracts outstanding translated into U.S. dollar equivalent amounts
were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                2005                                              2004
                                                Buy                                               Buy
                                 Pound          Canadian    Australian     U.S.                   Pound       Canadian
Sell                Euro         Sterling       Dollar      Dollar         Dollar          Euro   Sterling    Dollar
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------  ------------------------------------
<S>              <C>             <C>           <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>        <C>          <C>
U.S. Dollar      $  11.8         $      -      $  3.5      $   4.5       $     -       $   24.2   $   1.0      $    2.5
Euro                   -              7.3           -            -             -              -       0.9             -
Norwegian Krone      2.4                -           -            -           7.8            6.3         -             -
Japanese Yen           -                -           -          3.8             -              -         -             -
Other                1.3                -           -            -             -            0.8         -             -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------  ------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                      -49-
<PAGE>


The fair value of currency contracts, based on forward exchange rates at
December 31, 2005 and 2004 was approximately $0.1 and $0.6, respectively.

COMMODITY HEDGING ACTIVITIES

At December 31, 2005, the Building Block Chemicals segment Fortier plant's 2006
forecasted natural gas utility requirements were 37% hedged utilizing natural
gas forward contract at an average cost of $8.84 per MMBTU. These contracts
totaled $10.5 and have delivery dates from January 2006 through December 2006.
Based on year end NYMEX prices, we had net unrealized gains/(losses) on our
natural gas forward contracts at December 31, 2005 and 2004 of $2.4 and $(1.6),
respectively.

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had outstanding natural gas swaps with a fair
value gain/(loss) of $1.7 and ($0.7), net of taxes, respectively.

See Note 2 for information about our interest rate swap and currency forward
contract activity in connection with our acquisition of Surface Specialties.


6. EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF ASSOCIATED COMPANIES AND MINORITY INTERESTS

Through May 31, 2005, we had one associated company that was material to our
operations, CYRO. Sales to associated companies, primarily CYRO, amounted to
$18.7, $38.3 and $37.4 in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Amounts due from
CYRO at December 31, 2004 totaled $8.3. We have determined that the profit or
loss on sales to our associated companies for inventory that they held is
immaterial; therefore, no adjustments have been made to eliminate such profit or
loss.

Fees received from associated companies, primarily CYRO, were $0.8 through May
31, 2005, and $2.3 and $7.8 in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Fees from CYRO are
recorded in manufacturing cost of sales and are related primarily to
manufacturing services provided to CYRO at our Fortier, Louisiana manufacturing
complex. We continue to provide CYRO with these services.

Upon acquisition of Surface Specialties, Cytec acquired a 50% ownership interest
in SK Cytec Co., Ltd. ("SK Cytec"), a joint venture that manufactures and sells
certain similar products to those sold by Surface Specialties. The operations of
SK Cytec are not material to the results of our operations.

Upon acquisition of Surface Specialties, we also acquired ownership interests in
two majority-owned entities for which the net assets and results of operations
are consolidated. The earnings associated with the minority ownership interests
are included in other income (expense), net and totaled $0.6 for the year ended
December 31, 2005. The minority ownership interests in the net assets of these
entities are included in other noncurrent liabilities and totaled $2.1 as of
December 31, 2005.

7. INVENTORIES

December 31,                      2005                  2004
=============================================================
Finished goods                   $288.4               $165.0
Work in proress                    26.3                 20.6
Raw materials and supplies        131.9                 78.2
- ------------------------------------------------------------
Total inventories                $446.6               $263.8
============================================================

8.       PLANTS, EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES

DECEMBER 31,                                      2005            2004
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Land and land improvements                    $    85.6          $   34.7
Buildings                                         327.8             249.8
Machinery and equipment                         1,596.9           1,298.3
Construction in Progress                           54.0              44.4
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
Plants, Equipment and Facilities, At Cost     $ 2,064.3          $1,627.2
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------

The average composite depreciation rates utilized in the U.S. and Canada,
expressed as a percentage of the average depreciable property in service, were
5.2% in 2005, 5.8% in 2004 and 6.1% in 2003. Gross cost of the assets
depreciated under the composite method in the U.S. and Canada totaled $1,185.6
and $1,163.9 as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Depreciation is
calculated using the straight line depreciation method for assets at the
remainder of our locations with the estimated useful lives of these assets
ranging from 4 to 40 years.


                                      -50-
<PAGE>



9.       GOODWILL AND OTHER ACQUISITION INTANGIBLES

Following are the changes in goodwill by segment. The 2003 beginning balances
have been restated to reflect our new organizational structure (see Note 17).


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         CYTEC         CYTEC        CYTEC
                                   PERFORMANCE       SURFACE   ENGINEERED
                                     CHEMICALS   SPECIALTIES    MATERIALS     CORPORATE       TOTAL
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>           <C>          <C>            <C>       <C>
BALANCE, JANUARY 1, 2003               $ 55.4        $ 25.6       $252.4         $ 0.6     $  334.0
2003 acquisitions                        10.5           2.5            -             -         13.0
Purchase adjustment (1)                     -             -         (4.7)            -         (4.7)
Currency exchange                        (2.7)          0.2         (0.2)          0.1         (2.6)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2003             $ 63.2        $ 28.3       $247.5         $ 0.7     $  339.7
Purchase adjustment (2)                  (0.1)            -            -             -         (0.1)
Currency exchange                         1.9           1.0         (0.1)            -          2.8
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2004             $  65.0       $ 29.3       $247.4         $ 0.7       $342.4
2005 acquisitions                         38.0        690.3            -             -        728.3
Currency exchange                        (1.5)        (50.9)         0.2             -        (52.2)
Purchase adjustment (3)                     -             -         (6.3)            -         (6.3)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2005              $101.5       $668.7       $241.3         $ 0.7     $1,012.2
=====================================================================================================
</TABLE>

(1)  Purchase accounting adjustment relates to the recognition of deferred tax
     assets relating to an acquisition that occurred in a prior reporting
     period.


(2)  Purchase accounting adjustments relate to various items, primarily revision
     of pension liabilities associated with our September 2003 acquisition of
     certain product lines of Avecia.

(3)  We recorded a reduction to goodwill of $6.3 as a result of the favorable
     resolution of a tax contingency related to an acquisition that occurred in
     a prior reporting period.

Other acquisition intangibles consisted of the following major classes:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                            WEIGHTED
                             AVERAGE
                           USEFUL LIFE    GROSS CARRYING         ACCUMULATED
                             (YEARS)          VALUE              AMORTIZATION      NET CARRYING VALUE
- ---------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------
DECEMBER 31,                  2005        2005       2004        2005       2004    2005         2004
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>          <C>
Technology-based              15.2       $52.2      $42.5     $(15.0)    $(12.2)   $37.2        $30.3
Marketing-related             15.4        58.9       11.6       (9.0)      (4.0)    49.9          7.6
Marketing-related          Indefinite     41.8          -           -          -    41.8            -
Customer-related              15.0       389.6       35.8      (27.0)      (6.9)   362.6         28.9
                                      ----------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                   $542.5      $89.9     $(51.0)    $(23.1)  $491.5        $66.8
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Amortization of acquisition intangibles for the year ended December 31, 2005,
2004 and 2003 was $30.3, $5.6, and $4.0, respectively. Amortization expense for
the year ended December 31, 2005 includes ten months of amortization of the
acquisition intangibles associated with our purchase of Surface Specialties.
Assuming no change in the gross carrying amount of acquisition intangibles and
the currency exchange rates remain constant, the estimated future amortization
expense for the year 2006 is $33.9, for the years 2007 through 2009 is $33.8 per
year, and for the year 2010 is $33.7. Included in marketing-related intangibles
at December 31, 2005 is $41.8 relating to certain trade names purchased upon
acquisition of Surface Specialties which have indefinite useful lives.

10.      DEBT

Long-term debt, including the current portion, consisted of the following:


                                      -51-
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                         DECEMBER 31,
                                                                  2005                  2004
                                                                       CARRYING              CARRYING
                                                            FACE        VALUE     FACE        VALUE
                                                           -----------------------------------------
<S>                                                         <C>        <C>       <C>        <C>
Five-Year Term Loan Due February 15, 2010                   $461.2     $ 461.2   $     -    $     -
6.75% Notes Due March 15, 2008                               100.0        98.8     100.0       98.2
5.5% Notes Due October 1, 2010                               250.0       249.6         -          -
6.846% Mandatory Par Put Remarketed Securities ("MOPPRS")        -           -     120.0      119.0
4.6% Notes Due July 1, 2013                                  200.0       201.7     200.0      201.9
6.0% Notes Due October 1, 2015                               250.0       249.4         -          -
Other                                                         16.0        16.0         -          -
                                                           -----------------------------------------
                                                         $ 1,277.2   $ 1,276.7   $ 420.0    $ 419.1
Less: Current maturities                                      51.2        51.2     120.0      119.0
                                                           -----------------------------------------
Long-term Debt                                           $ 1,226.0   $ 1,225.5   $ 300.0    $ 300.1
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


The fair value of our long-term debt, including the current portion, based on
dealer quoted values, was $1,243.5 at December 31, 2005, and $418.8 at December
31, 2004.

In February 2005, we entered into credit agreements totaling $1,775.0 in
preparation for our acquisition of Surface Specialties. The agreements included
a $725.0 unsecured 5-year term loan facility, a $700.0 364-day credit facility,
and a $350.0 5-year revolving credit facility. We borrowed $725.0 under the term
loan facility and $600.0 under the 364-day credit facility both at interest
rates based on a floating LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin which is based on
our credit rating and is subject to change (1.0% at December 31, 2005). The
$725.0 facility requires amortization payments equal to the lesser of $72.5 or
the then outstanding balance by December 31 of each year from 2005 through 2008
with a final payment due February 15, 2010. As of December 31, 2005, we have
prepaid $30.5 of the $72.5 amortization payment due on December 31, 2006. The
revolving credit facility provides additional liquidity for general corporate
purposes. The facilities contain covenants that are customary for such
facilities; including subsequent amendments to allow prepayments under the term
loan to be applied in forward order of maturity and to add back specified
restructuring charges in the determination of EBITDA under the revolving credit
and term loan facilities.

In order to take advantage of current interest rates, we elected to redeem the
MOPPRS in May, 2005, at the optional redemption price of $141.0. The optional
redemption price represented the $120.0 principal amount of the securities and a
$21.0 pre-tax interest charge for redemption prior to their final maturity. The
redemption provided us with the ability to refinance this debt at a
significantly lower cost and a shorter tenor. Upon redemption, we recognized
additional interest expense of $1.0 from amounts related to the unamortized put
premium and rate lock agreements for these securities. The total expense of
$22.0 was recorded in 2005 in interest expense, net.

During October 2005, we sold $250.0 principal amount of 5.5% Notes due October
1, 2010 and $250.0 principal amount of 6.0% Notes due October 1, 2015 (the
"5-Year Notes" and the "10-Year Notes," respectively, and collectively, the
"Notes"). The Notes were offered under our $600.0 shelf registration statement.
We received approximately $495.1 in net proceeds from the offering after
deducting the underwriting discount and other estimated offering expenses. The
net proceeds from the offering were used to repay all amounts outstanding under
our unsecured 364-day facility and our revolving credit facility, which was
approximately $417.5 and $66.2, respectively. The 364-day facility is now
terminated. The Notes will pay interest on each April 1 and October 1,
commencing on April 1, 2006 through their respective due dates. The Notes are
unsecured and may be redeemed in whole or in part, at our option at any time
subject to a prepayment adjustment.

The weighted average interest rate on long-term debt was 4.4% for 2005 and 5.7%
for 2004.

At December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had available for short-term use approximately
$92.4 and $16.5, respectively, of non-U.S. dollar denominated credit facilities.
There were outstanding borrowings of $48.7 and $0.0 under these facilities at
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Cash payments during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, included
interest of $75.3, $20.2 and $18.2, respectively. Included in interest expense,
net, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, is interest income of
$3.7, $5.5 and $3.8, respectively.

At December 31, 2005, we had no outstanding borrowings under our 5-year
revolving credit facility.

                                      -52-
<PAGE>

11.      CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS

ENVIRONMENTAL AND RELATED MATTERS

We are subject to substantial costs arising out of environmental laws and
regulations, which include obligations to remove or limit the effects on the
environment of the disposal or release of certain wastes or substances at
various sites or to pay compensation to others for doing so.

Our most significant environmental liabilities relate to remediation and
regulatory closure obligations at manufacturing sites now or formerly owned by
us. We are also involved in legal proceedings directed at the cleanup of various
other sites, including a number of federal or state Superfund sites. Since the
laws pertaining to Superfund sites generally impose retroactive, strict, joint
and several liability, a governmental plaintiff could seek to recover all
remediation costs at any such site from any of the potentially responsible
parties ("PRPs") for such site, including us, despite the involvement of other
PRPs. In some cases, we are one of several hundred identified PRPs, while in
others we are the only one or one of only a few. Generally, where there are a
number of financially solvent PRPs, liability has been apportioned, or we
believe, based on our experience with such matters, that liability will be
apportioned based on the type and amount of waste disposed by each PRP at such
disposal site and the number of financially solvent PRPs. In many cases, the
nature of future environmental expenditures cannot be quantified with accuracy.
In addition, from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, we are
informed of, and receive inquiries with respect to, additional sites that may be
environmentally impaired and for which we may be responsible.

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the aggregate environmental related accruals
were $102.9 and $70.7, respectively, of which $7.5 and $10.0, respectively, are
included in accrued expenses with the remainder included in other noncurrent
liabilities. The increase in environmental related accruals was primarily
related to liabilities assumed upon our acquisition of Surface Specialties which
are associated with the remediation of certain manufacturing sites primarily
located in Europe. Environmental remediation spending, for the years ended
December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, was $6.6, $9.4 and $9.3, respectively. In the
first quarter of 2005, we increased our reserves by $4.4 as a result of our
agreement in principle to settle claims by a third party for the costs of
environmental remediation at a manufacturing site operated by the former
American Cyanamid Company ("Cyanamid") prior to 1944. In connection with our
spin-off from Cyanamid in 1993, we agreed to indemnify Cyanamid for claims of
this nature. Under the terms of the settlement which was finalized in the second
quarter of 2005, the third party has released all claims and indemnified us
against third-party environmental remediation claims arising from the alleged
contamination at the site. Although we believed that we had meritorious defenses
to this claim, we agreed to the settlement to avoid incurring additional legal
fees and any risk of an adverse outcome in any related litigation. During 2004,
we recorded a pre-tax charge of $6.1 in connection with the settlement of
several environmental and toxic tort lawsuits which were all related to a single
manufacturing site operated by Cyanamid prior to 1963. The full settlement which
was paid in 2004 `amounted to $8.6, of which $2.5 was charged against a
previously established environmental remediation reserve for these matters.

On January 1, 2003, as a result of the adoption of SFAS 143, we recorded an
after tax charge of $13.6 for the cumulative effect of prior years for
depreciation of the additional costs and accretion expense on the asset
retirement liability. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the asset retirement
liability was $39.1 and $22.3, respectively, which is included in other
liabilities. Accretion and depreciation expense for the years ended December 31,
2005, 2004 and 2003 were $3.1, $1.8 and $1.8, respectively.

OTHER CONTINGENCIES

We are the subject of numerous lawsuits and claims incidental to the conduct of
our or certain of our predecessors' businesses, including lawsuits and claims
relating to product liability, personal injury including asbestos,
environmental, contractual, employment and intellectual property matters.

As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, the aggregate self-insured and insured
contingent liability was $65.8 and $68.4, respectively, and the related
insurance recovery receivable was $37.7 and $37.9, respectively. The asbestos
liability included in the above amounts at December 31, 2005 and 2004 was $47.8
and $50.4, respectively, and the related insurance receivable was $34.7 and
$34.2, respectively. We anticipate receiving a net tax benefit for payment of
those claims for which full insurance recovery is not realized.

ASBESTOS
The following table presents information about the number of claimants involved
in asbestos cases with us:



                                      -53-
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          Year Ended              Year Ended
                                                                          December 31,            December 31,
                                                                             2005                   2004
                                                                       --------------------------------------
<S>                                                                          <C>                    <C>
      Number of claimants at beginning of period                             27,947                 26,955
      Number of claimants associated with claims closed during period       (11,949)                (3,540)
      Number of claimants associated with claims opened during period         2,113                  4,532
                                                                       --------------------------------------
      Number of claimants at end of period                                   18,111                 27,947
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


The claimants allege exposure to asbestos at facilities formerly or currently
owned by us or from products that we formerly manufactured for specialized
applications. Most of these cases involve numerous defendants, sometimes as many
as several hundred. Historically, most of the closed asbestos claims against us
have been dismissed without any indemnity payment by us, and we have no
information that this pattern will change.

Our asbestos liability and related insurance receivable is based on a study we
commissioned in 2003 by the Actuarial and Analytics Practice of AON Risk
Consultants ("AON"). We provided AON with, among other things, detailed data for
the past ten years on the incidence of claims, the incidence of malignancy
claims, indemnity payments for malignancy and non-malignancy claims, and
dismissal rates by claim. The actuarial methodology employed by AON was
primarily based on epidemiological data assumptions regarding asbestos disease
manifestation, the information provided by us, and the estimates of claim filing
and indemnity costs that may occur in the future. In conjunction with AON, we
also conducted a detailed review of our insurance policies and estimated
insurance recoveries in 2003. We expect to recover close to 50% of our future
indemnity costs and certain defense and processing costs already incurred. Most
of our insurance is with carriers with investment grade ratings and only those
with such ratings were included in the estimation of the recovery of indemnity
and defense costs. We anticipate updating the study approximately every three
years or earlier if circumstances warrant.

It should be noted that the ultimate liability and related insurance recovery
for all pending and anticipated future claims cannot be determined with
certainty due to the difficulty of forecasting the numerous variables that can
affect the amount of the liability and insurance recovery. These variables
include but are not limited to: (i) significant changes in the number of future
claims; (ii) significant changes in the average cost of resolving claims; (iii)
changes in the nature of claims received; (iv) changes in the laws applicable to
these claims; and (v) financial viability of co-defendants and insurers.

LEAD PIGMENT

We are among several defendants in approximately 30 cases, in which
plaintiffs assert claims for personal injury,  property damage, and other claims
for relief  relating to one or more kinds of lead  pigment  that were used as an
ingredient  decades ago in paint for use in buildings.  The different suits were
brought  by  government  entities  and/or  individual  plaintiffs,  on behalf of
themselves  and others.  The suits  variously  seek  compensatory  and  punitive
damages and/or  injunctive  relief,  including funds for the cost of monitoring,
detecting  and  removing  lead  based  paint  from  buildings  and  for  medical
monitoring;  for personal  injuries  allegedly caused by ingestion of lead based
paint; and plaintiffs' attorneys' fees. We believe that the suits against us are
without  merit,  and  we are  vigorously  defending  against  all  such  claims.
Accordingly, no loss contingency has been recorded.

In July 2005, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin held in a case in which we were one
of several defendants that Wisconsin's risk contribution doctrine applies to
bodily injury cases against manufacturers of white lead pigment. Under this
doctrine, manufacturers of white lead pigment may be liable for injuries caused
by white lead pigment based on their past market shares unless they can prove
they are not responsible for the white lead pigment which caused the injury in
question. Seven other courts have previously rejected the applicability of this
and similar doctrines to white lead pigment. We settled this case for an
immaterial amount. Although similar cases may be filed in Wisconsin, we intend
to vigorously defend ourselves if such case(s) are filed based on what we
believe to be our non-existent or diminutive market share. Accordingly, we do
not believe that our liability, if any, in such cases will be material, either
individually or in the aggregate and no loss contingency has been recorded.

We have access to a substantial amount of primary and excess general liability
insurance for property damage and believe these policies are available to cover
a significant portion of both our defense costs and indemnity costs, if any, for
lead pigment-related property damage claims. We have agreements in principle
with several of our insurers which provide that they will pay for approximately
fifty percent (50%) of our defense costs associated with lead pigment related
property damage claims and we continue to pursue recovery of our defense costs
from additional insurers.

OTHER
During 2004, we signed a stipulation of settlement with plaintiffs in a federal
class action lawsuit on behalf of purchasers of carbon fiber. As a result of
this and several other related litigation matters, in 2004 we recorded a pre-tax
charge of $8.0 which is included in administrative and general.



                                      -54-
<PAGE>


In the second quarter of 2005, we increased our reserves by $2.4 as a result of
our agreement in principle, which was signed in the third quarter, to settle
certain claims by a third party for $2.7.

In 2006, we were named as a defendant in a series of civil cases alleging
violation  of  antitrust  laws  relating to the sale of methyl  methacrylate,  a
chemical  manufactured and sold by CYRO, and seeking damages arising out of such
alleged  violations.  We sold our  interest  in CYRO to Degussa in 2005,  and in
accordance  with the terms of the sales  agreement,  we expect that  Degussa and
CYRO to provide us with full  indemnity  for any losses and expenses  associated
with these cases.

In February 2006, a subsidiary of DSM filed a lawsuit against us seeking
immediate dissolution of AMEL, the melamine manufacturing joint venture between
DSM and Cytec or the appointment of a receiver for the joint venture, the
rescission of the services agreement between Cytec and AMEL and compensatory
damages. We believe this lawsuit is without merit and we are vigorously
defending against all of the claims.

Periodically, we enter into settlement discussions for lawsuits or claims for
which we have meritorious defenses and for which an unfavorable outcome against
us is not probable. In such instances, no loss contingency is recorded since a
loss is not probable and it is our policy to accrue defense costs as incurred.
Typically, we consider these types of settlements in fairly limited
circumstances usually related to the avoidance of future defense costs and/or
the elimination of any risk of an unfavorable outcome. Such settlements, if any,
are recorded when it is probable a liability has been incurred, typically upon
entering into a settlement agreement.

While it is not feasible to predict the outcome of all pending environmental
matters, lawsuits and claims, it is reasonably possible that there will be a
necessity for future provisions for costs for environmental matters and for
other contingent liabilities that we believe, will not have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated financial position, but could be material to our
consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any one accounting period.
We cannot estimate any additional amount of loss or range of loss in excess of
the recorded amounts. Moreover, many of these liabilities are paid over an
extended period, and the timing of such payments cannot be predicted with any
certainty.

From time to time, we are also included in legal proceedings as a plaintiff
involving tax, contract, patent protection, environmental and other legal
matters. Gain contingencies related to these matters, if any, are recorded when
they are realized.

We commenced binding arbitration proceedings against SNF SA, ("SNF"), in 2000 to
resolve a commercial dispute relating to SNF's failure to purchase agreed
amounts of acrylamide under a long-term agreement. In July, 2004, the
arbitrators awarded us damages and interest aggregating approximately (euro)11.0
euros plus interest on the award at the rate of 7% per annum from July 28, 2004.
We have obtained a court order in France to enforce the award, which order is
being appealed by SNF. No gain contingency has been recorded. Subsequent to the
arbitration award, SNF filed a complaint alleging criminal violation of French
and European Community antitrust laws relating to the contract which was the
subject of the arbitration proceedings. We believe that the complaint is without
merit.

COMMITMENTS

Rental expense under property and equipment leases was $14.3 in 2005, $10.8 in
2004 and $10.2 in 2003. Estimated future minimum rental expenses under property
and equipment leases that have initial or remaining noncancelable lease terms in
excess of one year as of December 31, 2005, are:

                            Operating
                            Leases
- ----------------------------------------
2006                          $13.6
2007                           11.0
2008                            8.7
2009                            6.7
2010                            3.9
Thereafter                     16.4
                              ------
Total minimum lease payments  $60.3

We frequently enter into long-term contracts with customers with terms that vary
depending on specific industry practices. Our business is not substantially
dependent on any single contract or any series of related contracts. Set forth
below are more specific terms about our significant sales contracts.

We have the option to sell, and an affiliate of an international trading company
is obligated to buy, up to approximately 40% of our production capacity of
acrylonitrile per year under a long-term distributorship agreement that is
scheduled to expire on May 1, 2008. The price under this distributorship
agreement is market-based less certain costs and commissions.


                                      -55-
<PAGE>


We are obligated to sell, and a tenant at our Fortier facility is obligated to
buy, substantially all of our nominal production capacity of hydrocyanic acid
under an agreement with an initial term expiring December 31, 2011. Price is
determined by a formula based on the raw materials used to manufacture
hydrocyanic acid and to a lesser extent on the selling price of such tenant's
product based on hydrocyanic acid and is adjusted periodically.

We are obligated to sell sulfuric acid, and also to regenerate used sulfuric
acid, and a tenant at our Fortier facility is obligated to buy such product and
services, under an agreement with an initial term expiring December 31, 2011.
The price for regenerated sulfuric acid is cost based and the price for sulfuric
acid is set between the price for regenerated sulfuric acid and a market price
for sulfuric acid and both prices are adjusted periodically. The cost to
regenerate sulfuric acid is substantially in excess of the cost of producing
sulfuric acid. Regenerated sulfuric acid and sulfuric acid are produced in the
same plant at the same time.

We are obligated to manufacture a customer's requirements for certain resins
utilized in the automotive industry under long-term manufacturing agreements
which may be terminated on December 31 of any year upon two years prior written
notice.

We are obligated to sell and, subject to certain exceptions, an aerospace
customer is obligated to buy its requirements of various specialty materials for
products related to certain aircraft programs, under an agreement which is
scheduled to expire at the end of 2013. The agreement specifies price which is
fixed annually.

The Cytec Engineered Materials segment is party to a number of long-term supply
and pricing agreements that cover various time periods. Such agreements are
common practice in the aerospace and aircraft manufacturing industries.

We frequently enter into long-term agreements in order to lock-in price and
availability of raw materials and services required to operate our businesses.
At December 31, 2005, obligations under such agreements totaled $51.9.

We had $46.6 of outstanding letters of credit, surety bonds and bank guarantees
at December 31, 2005 that are issued on our behalf in the ordinary course of
business to support certain of our performance obligations and commitments. The
instruments are typically renewed on an annual basis.


12.      INCOME TAXES

The income tax provision (benefit) is based on earnings (losses) from continuing
operations before income taxes and, in 2003, before the cumulative effect of
accounting change as follows:

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      2005          2004      2003
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
U. S.                                $(22.3)       $105.1     $ 68.7
Non-U.S.                               65.8          67.3       60.7
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                  43.5        $172.4     $129.4
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------

The components of the income tax provision (benefit) are as follows:

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      2005          2004      2003
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Current:
     U. S. Federal                   $ (8.6)       $  6.3     $  1.9
     Non-U.S.                          27.3          12.8       16.2
     Other, principally state           1.5           2.2        1.4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                              20.2          21.3       19.5
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred:
     U. S. Federal                     (8.3)         20.3       10.4
     Non-U.S.                         (23.5)         (0.1)       0.9
     Other, principally state          (2.8)         (0.1)       5.8
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                             (34.6)         20.1       17.1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
Total income tax provision (benefit) $(14.4)       $ 41.4     $ 36.6
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

Income taxes paid in 2005, 2004 and 2003 were $64.4, $16.6 and $14.7,
respectively and include non-U.S. taxes of $59.8, $15.7 and $12.0 in 2005, 2004
and 2003, respectively. For 2005, $19.9 of pre-acquisition income taxes were
paid by the acquired Surface Specialties entities of which $19.4 has been
reimbursed to us from UCB.


                                      -56-
<PAGE>

U. S. and non-U.S. earnings (losses) of consolidated companies, before income
taxes, include all earnings derived from operations in the respective U.S and
non-U.S. geographic areas; whereas provisions (benefits) for income taxes
include all income taxes payable to (receivable from) U.S. Federal, non-U.S. and
other governments as applicable, regardless of the situs in which the taxable
income (loss) is generated. The temporary differences that give rise to a
significant portion of deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:



- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31,                                            2005          2004
Deferred tax assets:
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Allowance for bad debts                        $   4.8     $    2.5
       Self insurance accruals                           24.5         26.4
       Operating accruals                                14.4         14.9
       Environmental accruals                            32.1         26.7
       Pension and postretirement benefit liabilities   164.0        149.1
       Employee benefit accruals                         15.4         18.9
       Tax credit carry forwards                         18.4         13.9
       Net operating losses                              39.4         13.1
       Other                                             25.2          4.0
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross deferred tax assets                               338.2        269.5
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Valuation allowance                                     (23.2)       (12.2)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total net deferred tax assets                           315.0        257.3
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
       Inventory                                         (7.5)       (11.1)
       Plants, equipment and facilities                (180.6)      (124.4)
       Insurance receivables                            (11.3)       (13.4)
       Intangibles                                     (158.4)       (30.4)
       Other                                             (8.9)        (0.1)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Gross deferred tax liabilities                         (366.7)      (179.4)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax assets / (liabilities)               $ (51.7)    $   77.9
============================================================================

The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") introduced a special one-time
dividend received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings to a
U.S. taxpayer provided certain criteria are met. We completed our evaluation of
this repatriation provision in 2005 and concluded that no earnings will be
repatriated under the Act. In addition, at December 31, 2005 no provision has
been made for U.S. or additional non-U.S. taxes on the undistributed earnings of
international subsidiaries totaling $476.2 since we intend to reinvest these
earnings. It is not practicable to calculate the unrecognized deferred tax
liability on such earnings. U.S foreign tax credits would be available to
substantially reduce any amount of additional U.S. tax that might be payable on
these earnings in the event of a distribution.

We have U.S. research and development tax credit carryforwards of $5.0 available
as of December 31, 2005 to offset future U.S. tax liabilities. These
carryforwards begin to expire at various dates starting in 2022 through 2025.
U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards of $7.0 are available to offset future
U.S. tax liabilities. The Act extended the period of time over which U.S.
foreign tax credits may be carried forward from five years to ten years.
Accordingly, such U.S. foreign tax credits will now expire at various dates
starting in 2011 through 2015. We also have $3.4 of state tax credits of which
$2.4 will be carried forward indefinitely with the balance to expire at various
dates starting in 2006. Additionally, we have $3.0 of foreign jurisdiction tax
credits mainly related to our operations in Belgium and Mexico, of which $0.7
will expire in 2007 with the balance having an unlimited carryforward period.

At December 31, 2005, we have U.S. federal income tax net operating loss
carryforwards of $9.3 relating to a 1998 acquisition available to offset future
taxable income. Utilization of those loss carryforwards is limited under certain
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. The carryforwards begin to expire at
various dates starting in 2010 through 2018. In addition, we have foreign net
operating losses totaling $24.1, primarily related to our operations in Europe,
Canada and China. These net operating losses are available to offset future
taxable income in the respective foreign countries. Of the total carryforwards,
approximately $5.9 expire at various dates starting in 2006 through 2013, while
$18.2 can be utilized over an indefinite period.

Our long-term earnings trend makes it more likely than not that we will generate
sufficient taxable income on a consolidated basis to realize our deferred tax
assets with the exception of certain state net operating losses and state tax
credits, and various foreign deferred tax assets. Accordingly, we have recorded
a valuation allowance of $23.2 and $12.2 as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. For
2005, the $11.0 valuation allowance activity primarily consisted of a $0.6
decrease for various stated deferred tax assets, offset by an increase to the
valuation allowance for foreign net operating losses and other foreign deferred
tax assets ($3.0), and acquired Surface Specialties deferred tax assets ($8.6),
the latter of which was recorded as an offset to goodwill. As of December 31,
2005, $15.7 of the valuation allowance is attributable to U.S. state tax
attributes and $7.5 primarily relates to foreign net operating losses.


                                      -57-
<PAGE>


The Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") has completed and closed its audits of
our tax returns through 2001. In January, 2005, we were notified that the
Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation (the "Joint Committee") approved the
final IRS examination findings for the years 1999 through 2001. Joint Committee
also approved a separate tax refund claim filed by us for 1998 at that time. The
approval by Joint Committee resulted in a tax refund of approximately $0.2 and
$0.1 for the years 1998 and 2000 respectively, which was recorded in 2005. As a
result of the resolution of these audits, we also recorded a reduction in tax
expense of approximately $16.2. The IRS is also currently conducting audits of
our tax returns for the years 2002 and 2003. We believe that adequate provisions
for all outstanding issues have been made for all open years.

In May, 2005, we received a final notice from the Norwegian Assessment Board
disclosing an increase to taxable income with respect to a 1999 restructuring of
certain of our European operations. The tax liability attributable to this
assessment, excluding interest and possible penalties, was approximately 84.0
Norwegian krone ($12.4). This final assessment reflects a 20.7 Norwegian krone
decrease in the assessed tax liability compared with the prior audit report
issued by the tax authorities. As a result, we recorded a corresponding
reduction in tax expense of approximately $4.2, including interest, to reflect
such final assessment. We have retained tax counsel to assist in our defense of
the final assessment since the issue will likely be litigated given our vigorous
defense in protesting the increase of taxable income.

We also received a separate notice from the Norwegian tax authorities in 2005
disclosing a complete termination of pleadings regarding a potential Norway
permanent establishment ("PE") with respect to an affiliate of one of our
subsidiaries. Given the favorable resolution of this PE issue with respect to
one of our subsidiaries, we have adjusted our tax contingency reserves
accordingly and recorded a reduction in tax expense of $5.4, including interest,
in the second quarter ended June 30, 2005.

Notwithstanding our meritorious defenses in these matters, in prior years as
these matters developed, we accrued for the potential unfavorable outcome of
this dispute for the full amount of the tax liability of the assessment
including interest thereon.

In October 2005, we received notice from the Norwegian authorities demanding a
tax payment of 56.0 Norwegian krone ($8.5) plus accrued interest with respect to
the 1999 restructuring. We remitted this deposit with the tax authorities
pending final resolution of this matter. Based on the Norwegian demand notice,
we also determined that $22.0 Norwegian krone ($3.3) related to this issue will
be remitted in subsequent tax return filings without an interest charge until
this dispute is resolved. In light of these events, we reevaluated our total
liability (including interest) on the potential unfavorable outcome of this
dispute, and recorded a reduction in tax expense of 16.9 Norwegian krone ($2.6)
to adjust the interest component of this liability accordingly. Assuming the
dispute resolution process follows a normal course, a complete resolution of the
Norwegian issue will probably occur in late 2006 or early 2007.

A reconciliation of our effective tax rate to the U.S. federal income tax rate
is as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 2005         2004        2003
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>          <C>      <C>
Federal income tax rate                           35.0%        35.0%    35.0%
Research and development credit                   (5.2)        (1.8)    (3.2)
Income subject to other than
  the federal income tax rate                    (21.1)       (7.1)     (6.3)
Change in tax rates                               (1.1)       (1.1)        -
State taxes, net of federal benefits              (3.7)       (2.8)      2.0
Valuation allowance                                5.6         4.4       3.6
Acquired in-process research and
   development write-off                          29.8           -         -
Extraterritorial income exclusion                 (7.8)       (1.8)     (1.6)
Favorable resolution of prior year audits        (65.0)          -         -
Other (credits) charges, net                       0.5        (0.8)     (1.2)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effective tax rate                               (33.0)%      24.0%     28.3%
=============================================================================
</TABLE>

Our 2005 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by hedging losses incurred in
the U.S. in connection with the Surface Specialties acquisition, the MOPPRS
redemption, and reduction in tax expense due to the completion of tax audits for
various years as discussed above. The rate was unfavorably impacted by the
write-off of acquired in-process research and development expenses related to
the Surface Specialties acquisition for which there is no tax benefit, and the
increase in the valuation allowance for certain state and foreign deferred tax
assets.



                                      -58-
<PAGE>

In 2003 a tax benefit of $7.3 was allocated to the cumulative effect of
accounting change and, in 2005 tax expense of $0.8 related to discontinued
operations.

Tax benefits on stock option exercises of $5.5, $11.7 and $7.9 were allocated
directly to stockholders' equity for 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

13. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

We have defined benefit pension plans that cover employees in a number of
countries. Almost all of the plans provide defined benefits based on years of
service and career average salary. We also sponsor postretirement and post
employment benefit plans in certain countries. The postretirement plans provide
medical and life insurance benefits to retirees who meet minimum age and service
requirements. The medical plans are contributory and non-contributory with
certain participant's contributions adjusted annually; the life insurance plans
are non-contributory. The accounting for the postretirement plans anticipates
future cost-sharing and changes to the plans. The postretirement plans include a
cap on our share of costs for recent and future retirees. The post employment
plans provide salary continuation, disability related benefits, severance pay
and continuation of health costs during the period after employment but before
retirement.

The enactment of The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization
Act of 2003 resulted in a reduction of our accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation ("APBO") of approximately $31.7 in 2004, which we recognized as a
reduction in unrecognized net actuarial loss. This reduction in the APBO results
from an ongoing tax-free government subsidy beginning in 2006, for prescription
drug benefits provided to plan participants if such benefits are determined to
be actuarially equivalent to those offered by Medicare. Based on the current
guidance of determining actuarial equivalence, we have been able to determine
that some of the plan participants qualify for the subsidy. We amortize the
unrecognized net actuarial loss over the average remaining service life of
employees eligible for postretirement medical benefits. The net periodic
postretirement benefit cost was reduced by $3.9 and $2.4, respectively, for the
years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004.

We use a measurement date of December 31 for the U.S. and Canadian pension and
postretirement benefit plans and use a measurement date of November 30 for the
majority of all other pension plans.



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            PENSION PLANS                       POSTRETIREMENT PLANS
                                   ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------------
                                      2005       2004       2003         2005           2004         2003
                                   ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------------
NET PERIODIC COST:
<S>                                 <C>         <C>       <C>          <C>            <C>           <C>
Service cost                        $   21.4    $ 14.4    $   12.5     $     1.3      $  1.0        $  1.4
Interest cost                           41.3      34.7        32.5          13.7        14.3          16.6
Expected return on plan assets         (42.1)    (38.9)      (35.5)         (4.7)       (4.9)         (5.0)
Net amortization and deferral           15.8       7.8         3.4         (10.6)      (10.6)        (10.7)
Curtailment/Settlement                  (2.7)       -            -             -           -             -
                                   ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------------
Net periodic expense (credit)       $   33.7    $ 18.0    $   12.9     $    (0.3)     $ (0.2)          2.3
                                   =================================   =======================================

WEIGHTED-AVERAGE ASSUMPTIONS
  USED TO DETERMINE NET PERIODIC
  COST, DURING THE YEAR:
Discount rate                          5.4%        6.0%        6.4%          5.8%        6.3%          6.8%
Expected return on plan assets         7.7%        8.0%        8.1%          6.5%        6.5%          6.5%
Rate of compensation increase        3%-10%      3%-10%      3%-10%


WEIGHTED-AVERAGE ASSUMPTIONS
  USED TO DETERMINE BENEFIT
  OBLIGATIONS, END OF THE YEAR:
Discount rate                          5.3%        5.6%        6.1%          5.6%        5.8%          6.3%
Rate of compensation increase        3%-10%      3%-10%      3%-10%            -           -             -
                                    ==========================================================================
</TABLE>

The expected rate of return on U.S. plan assets was determined by examining the
annualized rates of return over the past five and ten year periods for the major
U.S. stock and bond indexes and the estimated long-term asset mix of the plan
assets of 55% - 65% stocks and 35% - 45% bonds, including cash equivalents
("fixed income securities"). Since the long-term average annualized return is
approximately 9% - 11% for stocks and 5% - 7% for fixed income securities, the
expected long-term weighted average return was estimated to be 8.5% for the U.S.
pension plans in 2005 and 2004. This return is based on an assumed allocation of
assets of 62% stocks and 38% in fixed income securities, with long-term
investment returns of 10% and 6%, respectively. The expected long-term weighted
average return on all of our pension plans, including the U.S. plans, was 7.7%
and 8.0% 2005 and 2004, respectively. For postretirement plans, all of which are
assets held in the U.S., the expected rate of return was 6.5% in 2005 and 2004,
based on the same investment return assumptions and an assumed asset allocation
of 55% in stocks and 45% fixed income securities in 2005 and 2004. The
investment strategy for our worldwide benefit plan assets is to maintain
broadly-diversified portfolios of stocks, bonds and money market instruments
that, along with periodic plan contributions, provide the necessary liquidity
for ongoing benefit obligations.

                                      -59-
<PAGE>

The expected return on non-U.S. plan assets is also based on the historical
rates of return of the various asset classes in each country and the
corresponding asset mix. In the Netherlands, where we have our largest non-U.S.
`ension plan, the assumed rate of return was 6.25% in 2005. This return is based
on assumed rates of return of 9% for stocks and 5% for fixed income securities
and an assumed asset allocation of 31% stocks and 69% fixed income securities.


                                      -60-
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>     <C>                                <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
                                                     Pension Plans                   Postretirement Plans
                                           ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------
                                             2005        2004        2003        2005        2004        2003
                                           ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------
Change in benefit obligation:
Benefit obligation at January 1            $  646.2    $  565.4    $  489.1    $  248.6    $  271.5    $  253.6
Addition of plans                                 -         2.1         0.7           -           -           -
Service cost                                   21.4        14.4        12.5         1.3         1.0         1.4
Interest cost                                  41.3        34.7        32.5        13.7        14.3        16.6
Amendments                                      2.4        (0.1)       (0.2)          -           -           -
Acquisitions                                  137.4           -        18.2           -           -         2.7
Translation difference                        (29.0)       10.2        16.1           -         0.1         0.1
Actuarial gains/(losses)                       42.2        44.5        21.2        14.9       (15.7)       20.1
Employee contributions                          1.4         0.9         0.5         4.0         3.4         2.6
Benefits paid                                 (31.8)      (25.9)      (25.2)      (24.4)      (26.0)      (25.6)
Curtailments/Settlements                       (1.0)          -           -           -           -           -
                                           ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------
Benefit obligation at December 31          $  830.5    $  646.2    $  565.4    $  258.1    $  248.6    $  271.5
                                           ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------

Accumulated benefit obligation at
 December 31                               $  769.7    $  617.3    $  544.2    $      -    $      -    $      -

Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets at January 1     $  485.3    $  430.5    $  350.0    $   71.6    $   74.6    $   70.5
Addition of multiple plans                        -           -         0.3           -           -           -
Actual return on plan assets                   39.1        39.2        52.5         3.0         3.8         8.3
Company contributions                          14.4        32.2        27.5        15.9        15.8        18.7
Employee contributions                          1.4         0.9         0.5         4.0         3.4         2.7
Acquisitions                                   65.8           -        10.7           -           -           -
Translation difference                        (20.0)        8.4        14.2           -           -           -
Benefits paid                                 (31.3)      (25.9)      (25.2)      (24.3)      (26.0)      (25.6)
                                           ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------

Fair value of plan assets at
 December 31                               $  554.7    $  485.3    $  430.5    $   70.2    $   71.6    $   74.6

Funded status:                             $ (275.8)   $ (160.9)   $ (134.9)   $ (187.9)   $ (177.0)   $ (196.9)
Unrecognized actuarial losses                 241.3       212.4       174.1        37.3        20.6        35.0
Unrecognized prior service cost                 0.7         0.9         0.3       (63.9)      (74.5)      (85.1)
Other contributions                             0.7           -           -           -           -           -
Unrecognized net transition
 obligation                                     4.0           -           -           -           -           -
                                           ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------
Net amount recognized                      $  (29.1)   $   52.4    $   39.5    $ (214.5)   $ (230.9)   $ (247.0)
                                           ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------

Amounts recognized in the
 consolidated balance sheets
 consists of:
Prepaid benefit cost                       $   15.7    $   24.1    $   10.6    $      -    $      -    $      -
Accrued benefit cost                         (239.7)     (147.9)     (118.1)     (214.5)     (230.9)     (247.0)
Intangible asset                                5.4         5.6         6.2           -           -           -
Accumulated other comprehensive
 income, exclusive of deferred taxes          189.5       170.6       140.8           -           -           -
                                           ---------------------------------   ---------------------------------
Net amount recognized                      $  (29.1)   $   52.4    $   39.5    $ (214.5)   $ (230.9)   $ (247.0)
================================================================================================================

The accrued postretirement benefit cost recognized in the consolidated balance
sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004 includes $20.0 in accrued expenses at each
date with the balance reported in pension and other postretirement benefit
liabilities.
</TABLE>


                                      -61-
<PAGE>

We recorded a non-cash after-tax minimum pension liability adjustment charge of
$7.1 and $11.5 to Other Comprehensive Income in 2005 and 2004, respectively, and
a credit of $1.2 in 2003. The charges to Other Comprehensive Income did not
trigger any special funding requirements. As of December 31, 2005, $4.2 was owed
to one of our U.S. pension plans and is due on or before September 15, 2006.

The assumed rate of future increases in the per capita cost of healthcare
benefits (healthcare cost trend rate) is 9.0% in 2006, decreasing to ultimate
trend of 5.0% in 2010. The healthcare cost trend rate has a significant effect
on the reported amounts of accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
("APBO") and related expense. A 1.0% change in assumed health care cost trend
rates would have the following effect:

                                                 2005               2004
                                          ------------------  ------------------
                                             1%        1%        1%        1%
                                          Increase  Decrease  Increase  Decrease
                                          ------------------  ------------------

Approximate effect on the total of service
 and interest cost components of other       $ 1.5    ($1.2)    $ 1.5     ($1.2)
 postretirement benefit cost

Approximate effect on accumulated
 postretirement benefit obligation           $24.8   ($21.4)    $23.9    ($21.2)
================================================================================

The following information is presented for those plans with an accumulated
benefit obligation in excess of plan assets:

                               U.S. Plans      Non-U.S. Plans        Total
                           ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
December 31,                 2005     2004     2005     2004     2005     2004
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit
 obligation                ($544.5) ($506.2) ($201.1)  ($68.4) ($745.6) ($574.6)
Accumulated benefit
 obligation                 (524.0)  (489.0)  (168.9)   (63.8)  (692.9)  (552.8)
Fair value of plan assets    369.6    369.9    107.5     48.9    477.1    418.8
================================================================================

The asset allocation for our U.S. pension plans and postretirement plans at the
end of 2005 and 2004, and the target allocation for 2006, by asset category, are
as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>     <C>          <C>       <C>       <C>     <C>               <C>         <C>         <C>
               U.S. Pension Plans                                   Postretirement Plans
- ------------------------------------------------  ----------------------------- ------------------
                     Target   Percentage of Plan                       Target   Percentage of Plan
                   Allocation Assets at Year End                     Allocation Assets at Year End
Asset Category        2006      2005      2004    Asset Category        2006      2005       2004
- ----------------------------- ------------------  ----------------------------- ------------------
Equity Securities      66%       67%        63%   Equity Securities      55%       55%        55%
Fixed Income           34%       33%        37%   Fixed Income           45%       45%        45%
                   ---------- ------------------                     ---------- ------------------
Total                 100%      100%       100%   Total                 100%      100%       100%
==================================================================================================

               Non-U.S. Pension Plans
- ------------------------------------------------
                     Target   Percentage of Plan
                   Allocation Assets at Year End
Asset Category        2006      2005       2004
- ----------------------------- ------------------
Equity Securities      41%       37%        41%
Fixed Income           47%       53%        52%
Cash and other         12%       10%         7%
- ----------------------------- ------------------
Total                 100%      100%       100%
================================================
</TABLE>

The total fair value of U.S. pension and postretirement plan assets was $439.8
and $441.5 at December 31, 2005 and 2004. We use a combination of active and
passive stock and bond managers to invest the assets of pension and
postretirement plans. The managers are selected based on an analysis of, among
other things, their historical investment results, frequency of management
turnover, cost structure, and assets under management. Assets are periodically
reallocated among the investment managers to maintain the appropriate asset mix
and occasionally transferred to new or existing managers in the event that a
manager is terminated.

The following table reflects expected cash flows for the U.S. pension and
postretirement benefit plans:

                                      -62-
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
EXPECTED EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS                 PENSION PLANS                           POSTRETIREMENT PLANS
- ----------------------------------------    ----------------------    ----------------------------------------------------------
<C>                                           <C>                                               <C>
2006                                          $10.2                                             $19.3
</TABLE>

The following table reflects total benefits expected to be paid from the plan
and / or our assets:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                       POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS        POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
                                                                       PRIOR TO MEDICARE PART D       ANTICIPATED MEDICARE PART
EXPECTED BENEFIT PAYMENTS                     PENSION BENEFITS                 SUBSIDY                       D SUBSIDY
- ----------------------------------------    ----------------------    --------------------------    ----------------------------
<C>                                                         <C>                           <C>                              <C>
2006                                                        $23.6                         $22.3                            $3.0
2007                                                         24.7                          22.9                             3.2
2008                                                         25.8                          23.1                             3.3
2009                                                         27.2                          23.2                             3.4
2010                                                         28.7                          23.3                             3.5
2011-2015                                                   174.1                         114.2                            18.5
- ----------------------------------------    ----------------------   --------------------------     ----------------------------
</TABLE>

The following table reflects the expected cash flows for the non-U.S. plans:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
EXPECTED EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS                 PENSION PLANS       POSTRETIREMENT PLANS
- ----------------------------------------    ---------------------- ------------------------
<C>                                                       <C>                       <C>
2006                                                      $  13.6                   $  0.1
- ----------------------------------------    ---------------------- ------------------------
</TABLE>


The following table reflects the total benefits expected to be paid from the
plans and/or our assets:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

EXPECTED BENEFIT PAYMENTS                     PENSION BENEFITS     POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
- ----------------------------------------    ---------------------- ------------------------
<C>                                                        <C>                        <C>
2006                                                       $  8.2                     $0.1
2007                                                          7.6                      0.1
2008                                                          9.0                      0.1
2009                                                          9.1                      0.1
2010                                                          9.8                      0.1
2011-2015                                                    46.0                      0.8
- ----------------------------------------    ---------------------- ------------------------
</TABLE>


We also sponsor various defined contribution retirement plans in a number of
countries, consisting primarily of savings, profit growth and profit sharing
plans. Contributions to the savings plans are based on matching a percentage of
employees' contributions. Contributions to the profit growth and profit sharing
plans are generally based on our financial performance. Amounts expensed related
to these plans are as follows:


                                    2005        2004        2003
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. Profit Growth Sharing        $ 3.0        $ 9.1       $ 5.5
Savings Plan                        8.0          7.0         6.1
                                  -------------------------------
Total                             $11.0        $ 16.1      $ 11.6
                                  -------------------------------
Non-U.S.
Others                            $ 2.7        $ 1.2       $ 1.2
=================================================================

We also sponsor post employment plans that, in certain circumstances, provide
salary continuation, disability related benefits, severance pay and continuation
of health care coverage during the period after employment but before
retirement.

Certain of our benefit plans provide for enhanced benefits in the event of a
"change of control" as defined in the plans.

                                      -63-
<PAGE>

14. OTHER

Following are our accrued expenses:

- -------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31,                              2005               2004
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Employee benefits                        $ 18.2          $   30.1
Other postretirement employee benefits     20.0              20.0
Salaries and wages                         45.1              19.1
Taxes other than income taxes               8.9               7.2
Environmental                               7.5              10.0
Interest                                   12.5               7.8
Restructuring costs                        10.2               0.1
Customer rebates                           18.3               4.4
All other                                  77.6              79.4
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                   $ 218.3         $   178.1
===================================================================

The balance in due from related party of $8.0 represents amounts to be received
from UCB for certain preacquisition tax liabilities which we have or will pay in
connection with the acquisition of Surface Specialties. Additionally, in
connection with certain transition services agreements entered into with UCB in
connection with the acquisition of Surface Specialties, included in accrued
expenses at December 31, 2005 are $0.8 related to such agreements. Through
December 31, 2005, results of operations reflect expenses of $12.5 recognized
under these agreements.

15. COMMON STOCK

We are authorized to issue 150 million shares of common stock with a par value
of $.01 per share, of which 46,298,828 shares were outstanding at December 31,
2005. A summary of changes in common stock issued and treasury stock is
presented below.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           COMMON STOCK   TREASURY STOCK
                                                                   --------------------------------------
<S>                                                                    <C>              <C>
Balance at December 31, 2002                                                 48,132,640       9,332,671
Purchase of treasury stock                                                            -         838,200
Issuance pursuant to stock option plan                                                -      (1,079,792)
Awards of performance stock and restricted stock                                      -         (80,731)
Forfeitures and deferrals of stock awards                                             -         129,549
                                                                   --------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 2003                                                 48,132,640       9,139,897
Purchase of treasury stock                                                            -         388,300
Issuance pursuant to stock option plan                                                -      (1,217,487)
Awards of performance stock and restricted stock                                      -         (64,654)
Forfeitures and deferrals of stock awards                                             -          51,807
                                                                   --------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 2004                                                 48,132,640       8,297,863
Issuance related to acquisition of Surface Specialties                                -      (5,772,857)
Issuance pursuant to stock option plan                                                -        (688,736)
Awards of performance stock and restricted stock                                      -         (53,345)
Forfeitures and deferrals of stock awards                                             -          50,887
                                                                   --------------------------------------
Balance at December 31, 2005                                                 48,132,640       1,833,812
=========================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Treasury stock, when reissued, is relieved at the average cost of the shares in
treasury.

In January 2004, the Board of Directors approved the initiation of a common
stock quarterly cash dividend program. During 2005 and 2004, four quarterly cash
dividends of $0.10 per share were declared and paid totaling $17.8 and $15.7,
respectively. No cash dividends on common shares were declared or paid during
2003.

On February 9, 2006, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend
of $0.10 per common share, payable on March 15, 2006 to stockholders of record
as of February 27, 2006.

In March 2003, we announced an authorization to repurchase up to an additional
$100.0 of our outstanding common stock. Repurchases were made from time to time
on the open market or in private transactions and the shares obtained under this
authorization are anticipated to be utilized for stock option plans, benefit
plans and other corporate purposes. During 2004, we repurchased 388,300 shares
of our common stock at a cost of $13.1. During 2003, we repurchased 838,200
shares of our stock at a cost of $27.7 that completed the previous stock
repurchase authorization and included $18.1 under the new authorization. In
connection with the acquisition of Surface Specialties, we suspended the stock
buy-back program and do not anticipate making future stock buy-backs for at
least two years from the closing date in order to maximize the funds available
for debt service and other corporate purposes.

                                      -64-
<PAGE>

STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN: The 1993 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the
"1993 Plan") provides for grants of a variety of awards, such as stock options
(including incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options), restricted
stock (including performance shares),stock appreciation rights (including those
settled with common shares) and deferred stock awards and dividend equivalents.
In addition, automatic formula grants of restricted stock and nonqualified stock
options are awarded to non-employee directors. At December 31, 2005, there are
approximately 6,889,999 shares reserved for issuance under the 1993 Plan.

We have utilized the stock option component of the 1993 Plan to provide for the
granting of nonqualified stock options at 100% of the market price on the date
the option is granted. Options are generally exercisable in cumulative
installments of 33 1/(3)% per year commencing one year after the date of grant
and annually thereafter, with contract lives of generally 10 years from the date
of grant.

A summary of stock options activity is presented below.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               2005                       2004                       2003
                                        -----------------------      -----------------      ---------------------
                                                      WEIGHTED               WEIGHTED                    WEIGHTED
                                                      AVERAGE                AVERAGE                     AVERAGE
                                                      EXERCISE               EXERCISE                    EXERCISE
                                        SHARES           PRICE       SHARES     PRICE       SHARES          PRICE
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares under option:

<S>                                    <C>               <C>       <C>            <C>       <C>            <C>
Outstanding at beginning of year       5,344,434         $30.47    6,320,110      $28.31    6,692,689      $26.15
Granted                                  534,900          47.61      545,070       37.14      873,600       27.06
Exercised                               (688,736)         25.88   (1,217,487)      20.20   (1,079,792)      13.44
Forfeited                                (52,675)         38.88     (303,259)      38.57     (166,387)      31.68
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OUTSTANDING AT END OF YEAR             5,137,923         $35.45    5,344,434      $30.47    6,320,110      $28.31
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPTIONS EXERCISABLE AT END OF YEAR     4,036,177         $30.89    4,049,069      $30.40    4,687,172      $28.64
==================================================================================================================
</TABLE>


The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and
exercisable at December 31, 2005:



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        OPTIONS   OUTSTANDING                  OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                                                  ----------------------------------------   ------------------------
                                                                  WEIGHTED
                                                                  AVERAGE        WEIGHTED
                                                                  REMAING        AVERAGE                   WEIGHTED
                                                                  CONTRACTUAL    EXERCISE     NUMBER       AVERAGE
RANGE OF EXERCISE PRICES                           OUTSTANDING    LIFE(YEARS)      PRICE      EXERCISABLE  PRICE
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<C>                                                        <C>        <C>          <C>             <C>      <C>
$ 6.46                                                     1,859      2.36         $ 6.46          1,859    $ 6.46
 20.44                                                   593,180      3.06          20.44        593,180     20.44
 23.31-28.56                                           1,810,550      5.40          25.28      1,566,951     25.05
 29.56-35.09                                             676,752      5.12          33.25        673,416     33.25
 36.25-38.62                                             523,231      7.86          37.18        186,720     37.29
 40.00-44.50                                             620,451      1.15          40.28        620,451     40.28
 46.94-49.39                                             901,400      6.09          47.74        384,600     47.94
 53.29-55.00                                              10,500      3.34          54.76          9,000     55.00
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$ 6.46-55.00                                           5,137,923      4.95         $35.45      4,036,177    $30.89
==================================================================================================================
</TABLE>



As provided under the 1993 Plan, we have also issued restricted stock and
performance stock. Restricted shares are subject to certain restrictions on
ownership and transferability that lapse upon vesting. Performance share payouts
are based on the attainment of certain financial performance objectives and may
vary depending on the degree to which the performance objectives are met.
Performance shares awarded in 2003, 2004 and 2005 relate to the 2005, 2006 and
2007 performance periods, respectively. The total amount of stock-based
compensation expense recognized for restricted stock and performance stock was
$2.7 in 2005, $4.6 in 2004 and $2.0 in 2003. A summary of restricted stock and
performance stock activity is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                  2005              2004              2003
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                              <C>              <C>             <C>
Outstanding awards - beginning of year                           210,401          230,580         297,655
New awards granted                                                53,345           65,204          80,731
Shares with restrictions lapsed(1)                               (54,006)         (15,159)        (13,739)
Restricted shares forfeited                                       (5,000)         (70,224)       (134,067)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding awards - end of year                                 204,740          210,401         230,580
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average market value of new awards on award date         $47.92           $36.84          $26.93
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1)  Shares with restrictions that lapsed in each period above include shares
     deferred by certain participants. We issued these participants equivalent
     deferred stock awards that will be distributed in the form of shares of
     common stock, generally following termination of employment.

                                      -65-
<PAGE>

The compensation costs that have been charged against income for restricted
stock and performance stock awards have been noted above. The effects of
applying the fair value method provided under SFAS No. 123 are shown in Note 1
and are not necessarily indicative of future amounts.

In the event of a "change of control" (as defined in the 1993 Plan), (i) any
award under the 1993 Plan carrying a right to exercise that was not previously
exercisable and vested will become fully exercisable and vested, (ii) the
restrictions, deferral limitations, payment conditions and forfeiture applicable
to any other award granted under the 1993 Plan will lapse and such awards will
be deemed fully vested and (iii) any performance conditions imposed with respect
to awards shall be deemed to be fully achieved.

The fair value of options granted before January 1, 2005 was estimated on the
date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following
weighted average assumptions:

                                      2004          2003
 --------------------------------------------------------
 Expected life (years)                 5.7           5.6
 Expected volatility                  46.6%         47.3%
 Expected dividend yield               1.0%            -
 Risk-free interest rate               3.4%          2.9%
 Weighted average fair
   value of options granted
   during the year                  $16.21        $12.69
  -------------------------------------------------------

For stock options granted after January 1, 2005, the fair value of each option
award is estimated on the date of grant using a binomial-lattice option
valuation model. The binomial-lattice model considers characteristics of fair
value option pricing that are not available under the Black-Scholes model.
Similar to the Black-Scholes model, the binomial model takes into account
variables such as volatility, dividend yield rate, and risk free interest rate.
However, in addition, the binomial model considers the contractual term of the
option, the probability that the option will be exercised prior to the end of
its contractual life, and the probability of termination or retirement of the
option holder in computing the value of the option. For these reasons, we
believe that the binomial-lattice model provides a fair value that is more
representative of actual experience and future expected experience than the
value calculated in previous years, using Black-Scholes. The assumptions for the
year ended December 31, 2005 are noted in the following table:

                                          2005
- ------------------------------------------------
Expected life (years)                     5.8
Expected volatility                      38.5%
Expected dividend yield                  0.84%
Range of risk-free interest rate   2.1% - 4.2%
Weighted average
fair value per option
  granted during the year               $17.78
- ------------------------------------------------

16. PREFERRED STOCK

We are authorized to issue 20 million shares of preferred stock with a par value
of $.01 per share in one or more classes or series with rights and privileges as
adopted by the Board of Directors. There were no shares of preferred stock
outstanding at December 31, 2005 and 2004.

As of December 17, 1993, we had issued to Cyanamid, a subsidiary of Wyeth, eight
million shares of preferred stock in conjunction with our spin-off from
Cyanamid. Through September, 2004, only 4,000 shares of Series C Cumulative
Preferred Stock (the "Series C Stock") had remained outstanding. The Series C
Stock, which had a redemption value of $25 per share, was redeemed on September
30, 2004 for $10.0 in cash. A charge to net earnings available to common
stockholders of $9.9 was recorded as a premium paid to redeem preferred stock.
The $10.0 payment was not tax deductible. We also settled a series of disputed
matters with Wyeth at a cost of $2.0 which was recorded during 2004 in other
income (expense), net. The Series C shares were subsequently retired. The Series
C Stock had an annual dividend of $1.83 per share (7.32%).

                                      -66-
<PAGE>

17. OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS AND IDENTIFIABLE ASSETS

SEGMENTS: We have restated segment information for all periods presented in
order to reflect our current organizational structure as we announced in October
2005.

Cytec Performance Chemicals includes our water treatment chemicals, mining
chemicals, phosphine and phosphorous specialties, polymer additives and
specialty additives, urethanes, polyurethanes and pressure sensitive adhesives
product lines. Cytec Surface Specialties includes low energy-cured (Radcure)
resins, powder coating resins and liquid coating resins which includes various
product lines such as water-borne resins and solvent based resins. Cytec
Engineered Materials principally includes advanced composites and film
adhesives. Building Block Chemicals principally includes acrylonitrile,
hydrocyanic acid, acrylamide, sulfuric acid and melamine.

The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those
described in Note 1. All intersegment sales prices are cost based. We evaluate
the performance of our operating segments primarily based on earnings from
operations of the respective segment.

Following is selected information in relation to our continuing operations for
the periods indicated:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>     <C>                     <C>          <C>          <C>         <C>      <C>
                                   Cytec        Cytec        Cytec    Building
                                Performance   Surface     Engineered    Block      Total
                                 Chemicals   Specialties   Materials  Chemicals  Segments
==========================================================================================
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2005
Net sales to external customers   $ 855.8     $ 1,244.1    $ 541.6     $ 284.2  $ 2,925.7
Intersegment net sales                5.6             -          -        85.3       90.9
                                  --------------------------------------------------------
Total net sales                     861.4       1,244.1      541.6       369.5    3,016.6
Earnings from operations             56.6          22.0      103.0         5.7      187.3
Percentage of sales                   6.6%          1.8%      19.0%        1.5%       6.2%
Total assets                        864.6       1,970.5      532.2       192.0    3,559.3
Capital expenditures                 46.2          27.9       19.3        10.9      104.3
Depreciation and amortization        38.0          58.6       11.0        24.4      132.0
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2004
Net sales to external customers   $ 712.7     $   261.0    $ 487.0     $ 260.6  $ 1,721.3
Intersegment net sales                5.0             -          -        85.0       90.0
                                  --------------------------------------------------------
Total net sales                     717.7         261.0      487.0       345.6    1,811.3
Earnings from operations             57.5          28.7       83.4        15.6      185.2
Percentage of sales                   8.0%         11.0%      17.1%        4.5%      10.2%
Total assets                        713.0         165.0      515.4       189.7    1,583.1
Capital expenditures                 43.0          12.6       19.1        12.2       86.9
Depreciation and amortization        37.5          13.7       10.7        25.5       87.4
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

2003
Net sales to external customers   $ 623.6     $   228.4    $ 408.7     $ 211.1  $ 1,471.8
Intersegment net sales                  -             -          -        65.7       65.7
                                  --------------------------------------------------------
Total net sales                     623.6         228.4      408.7       276.8    1,537.5
Earnings from operations             35.7          23.7       66.0        21.9      147.3
Percentage of sales                   5.7%         10.4%      16.1%        7.9%       9.6%
Total assets                        612.9         214.6      478.9       197.5    1,503.9
Capital expenditures                 51.2          12.9       18.3        10.0       92.4
Depreciation and amortization        36.5          13.8       11.3        27.3       88.9
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                      -67-
<PAGE>

The following table provides a reconciliation of selected segment information to
corresponding amounts contained in our consolidated financial statements:

                                               2005        2004        2003
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net sales:
Net sales from segments                     $ 3,016.6   $ 1,811.3   $ 1,537.5
Elimination of intersegment revenue             (90.9)      (90.0)      (65.7)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total consolidated net sales                $ 2,925.7   $ 1,721.3   $ 1,471.8
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings from operations:
Earnings from segments (1)                  $   187.3   $   185.2   $   147.4
Corporate unallocated (2)                       (26.8)      (17.5)       (3.3)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total consolidated earnings from operations $   160.5   $   167.7   $   144.1
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total assets:
Assets from segments                        $ 3,559.3   $ 1,583.1
Other assets (3)                                251.2       668.5
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total consolidated assets                   $ 3,810.5   $ 2,251.6
================================================================================

(1)  Includes $37.0 write-off of acquired in-process research and development
     costs and $20.8 representing the excess of the fair market value of the
     finished goods inventory of the acquired business over normal manufacturing
     costs (see Note 2).

(2)  Includes $16.8 of restructuring charges in 2005 (see Note 3), and $8.0 in
     2004 relating to the settlement of a class action law suit on behalf of
     purchasers of carbon fiber and other related matters (see Note 11).

(3)  Includes cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2005 and 2004 of $68.6
     and $323.8, respectively.


OPERATIONS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREAS: Net sales to unaffiliated customers presented
below are based upon the sales destination, which is consistent with how we
manage our businesses. U.S. exports included in net sales are based upon the
sales destination and represent direct sales of U.S. based entities to
unaffiliated customers outside of the United States. Earnings from operations
are also based upon destination and consist of total net sales less operating
expenses. Identifiable assets are those assets used in our operations in each
geographic area. Unallocated assets are primarily cash and cash equivalents,
miscellaneous receivables, construction in progress and the fair values of
derivatives.

                                      -68-
<PAGE>


- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               2005        2004        2003
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net Sales
   United States                            $ 1,095.3   $   802.4   $   719.7
   Other Americas                               257.4       188.0       151.6
   Asia / Pacific                               401.7       261.9       211.1
   Europe, Middle East and Africa             1,171.3       469.0       389.4
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                       $ 2,925.7   $ 1,721.3   $ 1,471.8
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. exports included in net sales above
   Other Americas                           $    82.1   $    70.7   $    47.8
   Asia / Pacific                                88.7       102.7        85.2
   Europe, Middle East and Africa                90.6        61.0        53.6
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                       $   261.4   $   234.4   $   186.6
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings from operations
   United States (1)                        $    17.4   $    69.7   $    58.3
   Other Americas                                48.7        31.2        27.3
   Asia / Pacific                                39.5        30.3        22.0
   Europe, Middle East and Africa                54.9        36.5        36.5
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                       $   160.5   $   167.7   $   144.1
==============================================================================
Identifiable assets
   United States                            $ 1,576.5   $ 1,001.9
   Other Americas                               183.6       148.1
   Asia and Pacific                             223.3        82.7
   Europe, Middle East and Africa             1,482.5       306.5
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                         3,465.9     1,539.2
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Equity in net assets of and advances
 to associated companies                         20.3        85.5
Unallocated assets (2)                          324.3       626.9
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
Total assets                                $ 3,810.5   $ 2,251.6
==================================================================

(1)  In 2005, includes a $37.0 write-off in of acquired in-process research and
     development costs,$20.8 representing the excess of the fair market value of
     the finished goods inventory of the acquired business over normal
     manufacturing costs (see Note 2), and $8.0 in 2004 relating to the
     settlement of a class action lawsuit in the U.S. on behalf of purchasers of
     carbon fiber and other related matters (see Note 11).

(2)  Includes cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2005 and 2004 of $68.6
     and $323.8, respectively.

18.  RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

Our revenues are largely dependent on the continued operation of our various
manufacturing facilities. There are many risks involved in operating chemical
manufacturing plants, including the breakdown, failure or substandard
performance of equipment, operating errors, natural disasters, the need to
comply with directives of, and maintain all necessary permits from, government
agencies and potential terrorist attack. Our operations can be adversely
affected by labor force shortages or work stoppages and events impeding or
increasing the cost of transporting our raw materials and finished products. The
occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to the
above events, may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and
profitability of a particular manufacturing facility. With respect to certain
facilities, such events could have a material effect on our company as a whole.

Our operations are also subject to various hazards incident to the production of
industrial chemicals. These include the use, handling, processing, storage and
transportation of certain hazardous materials. Under certain circumstances,
these hazards could cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and
destruction of property and equipment, environmental damage and suspension of
operations. Claims arising from any future catastrophic occurrence at one of our
locations may result in Cytec being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting
potentially large claims.

We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition and
generally require no collateral from our customers. We are exposed to credit
losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties on derivative
instruments. The counterparties to these transactions are major financial
institutions, thus we consider the risk of default to be minimal. We typically
do not require collateral or other security to support potential credit risk.

                                      -69-
<PAGE>

International operations are subject to various risks which may not be present
in U.S. operations. These risks include political instability, the possibility
of expropriation, restrictions on royalties, dividends and remittances,
instabilities of currencies, requirements for governmental approvals for new
ventures and local participation in operations such as local equity ownership
and workers' councils. Currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the
currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause
foreign currency transaction gains and losses, which may be material. While we
do not currently believe that we are likely to suffer a material adverse effect
on our results of operations in connection with our existing international
operations, any of these events could have an adverse effect on our
international operations in the future by reducing the demand for our products,
affecting the prices at which we can sell our products or otherwise having an
adverse effect on our operating performance.

                                      -70-
<PAGE>



            REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cytec Industries Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Cytec Industries
Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005. In
connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also
have audited the consolidated financial statement schedule, "Schedule II -
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts." These consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of
December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, in
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143,
"Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," effective January 1, 2003.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of the Company's
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on
criteria established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our
report dated February 27, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's
assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial
reporting. This report includes an explanatory paragraph stating that management
excluded from its assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, the internal control
over financial reporting of the Surface Specialties business of UCB S.A.
associated with total assets of $969 million as of December 31, 2005 and total
revenues of $1,075 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Short Hills, New Jersey
February 27, 2006


                                      -71-
<PAGE>


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cytec Industries Inc.:

We have audited management's assessment, included in the accompanying
Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that Cytec
Industries Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria
established in Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
management's assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management's assessment that the Company maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, is fairly
stated, in all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal
Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Also, in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, based on criteria established in
Internal Control--Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

The Company acquired the Surface Specialties business of UCB S.A. ("Surface
Specialties") during the year ended December 31, 2005. Management excluded from
its assessment of the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, Surface Specialties' internal
control over financial reporting associated with total assets of $969 million,
and total revenues of $1,075 million included in the consolidated financial
statements of the Company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005. Our
audit of internal control over financial reporting of the Company also excluded
an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of Surface
Specialties.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of
Cytec Industries Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2005, and our
report dated February 27, 2006 expressed an unqualified opinion on those
consolidated financial statements.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Short Hills, New Jersey
February 27, 2006

                                      -72-
<PAGE>



QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)    1Q             2Q              3Q             4Q          YEAR
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2005
<S>                                              <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>         <C>
Net sales                                        $563.9          $813.4         $760.8         $787.6      $2,925.7
Gross profit (1)                                  123.6           174.3          161.2          152.9         612.0
Net earnings (loss)                                (6.5)           11.9           35.4           18.3          59.1
Basic net earnings (loss) per share (2)         $ (0.16)         $ 0.26         $ 0.77          $0.44      $   1.31
Diluted net earnings (loss) per share (2)       $ (0.16)         $ 0.25         $ 0.75          $0.43      $   1.27


2004
Net sales                                       $ 415.2          $422.0         $433.5         $450.6      $1,721.3
Gross profit (1)                                  105.1           110.4          101.1          101.6         418.2
Net earnings available to common
  stockholders                                     33.2            31.2           10.5           46.2         121.1
Basic net earnings available to common
 stockholders per share (2)                     $  0.85          $ 0.80         $ 0.27         $ 1.17      $   3.06
Diluted net earnings available to common
 stockholders per share (2)                     $  0.83          $ 0.77         $ 0.26         $ 1.13      $   2.96
</TABLE>


(1) Gross profit is derived by subtracting manufacturing cost of sales from net
    sales.

(2) The sum of the quarters may not equal the full year basic and diluted
    earnings per share since each period is calculated separately.

                                      -73-


<PAGE>





ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
        ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

CONCLUSION REGARDING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

An evaluation was carried out by our management, under the supervision and with
the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of
the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule
13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act), as of December 31, 2005. Based upon that
evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have
concluded that our current disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
controls over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange
Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, an evaluation
of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting was
carried out. Management excluded from its evaluation an assessment of the
internal controls over financial reporting for the Surface Specialties business,
as described below. Management's evaluation was based on the criteria
established in INTERNAL CONTROL - INTEGRATED FRAMEWORK issued by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this
evaluation, management has concluded that our internal controls over financial
reporting were effective as of December 31, 2005.

On February 28, 2005, we acquired Surface Specialties from UCB SA. Management
excluded from its assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, Surface Specialties' internal
controls over financial reporting. As of December 31, 2005, total assets
associated with Surface Specialties were $969 million, representing 25% of our
total assets. For the year ended December 31, 2005, total revenues associated
with Surface Specialties were $1,075 million, representing 37% of our total
revenue.

ATTESTATION REPORT

Management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2005 has been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent
registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included
herein.

CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL

There were no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting during
the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005 identified in the above-referenced
evaluations that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.


ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION

Not applicable.

                                      -74-
<PAGE>



                                    PART III

ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Set forth below is certain information concerning the executive officers of
Cytec. Each such person serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of
Cytec.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Name                     Age         Positions

<S>                      <C>       <C>
D. Lilley                59          Mr. Lilley is Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer.  He was
                                     elected Chairman in January 1999 and President and Chief Executive Officer in May 1998,
                                     having previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer from January 1997.

J. P. Cronin             52          Mr. Cronin is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, having previously
                                     served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from our inception in 1993 until he
                                     was elected an Executive Vice President in September 1996.

S. D. Fleming            47          Mr. Fleming has been President of Cytec Specialty Chemicals since October 2005. He was
                                     elected as an officer in September 2004. He previously served as President of Cytec
                                     Performance Specialties, Vice President, Phosphine and Mining Chemicals and other
                                     executive positions in our specialty chemicals businesses for more than four years.

S. C. Speak              48          Mr. Speak was elected as an officer in September 2004.  He has been President of Cytec
                                     Engineered Materials since January 2002, having previously served as Vice President and
                                     General Manager, North America and Pacific Rim and other executive positions in Cytec
                                     Engineered Materials for more than two years.

W. N. Avrin              50          Mr. Avrin is Vice President, Corporate and Business Development and has held this
                                     position for more than five years.

D. M. Drillock           48          Mr. Drillock was elected Vice President, Controller and Investor Relations in April
                                     2002.  He previously served as Controller for more than four years.

J. E. Marosits           53          Mr. Marosits was elected Vice President, Human Resources in July 2002.  For more than
                                     four years prior to that, he had been our Director, Human Resources for Building Block
                                     Chemicals and Corporate Manager, Labor Relations.

R. Smith                 47          Mr. Smith was elected Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary effective January 1,
                                     2002, having previously served as Assistant General Counsel for more than two years
                                     prior thereto.

T. P. Wozniak            52          Mr. Wozniak is Treasurer of Cytec and has held this position for more than five years.
</TABLE>

We have a specific Code of Ethics which is applicable to our chief executive
officer, our chief financial officer, our chief accounting officer and our
controller. This code sets forth certain of our expectations, including that the
officers will act with honesty and integrity, will avoid actual and apparent
conflicts of interest, will comply with all applicable laws, will disclose
information that is complete and understandable and will act in good faith and
responsibly. The Code also requires the prompt reporting of violations to the
Chair of the Audit Committee. A current copy of the Code is available on our
website accessible at WWW.CYTEC.COM. We will disclose information regarding any
amendment to the Code or any waiver from any of its provisions on the same
website. There have never been any waivers granted regarding our Code.

The remainder of the information required by this Item is incorporated by
reference from the "Election of Directors" section of our definitive Proxy
Statement for our 2006 Annual Meeting of Common Stockholders, dated March 20,
2006.

                                      -75-
<PAGE>

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the
"Executive Compensation," the "Employment and Severance Arrangements," the
"Compensation under Retirement Plans," the "Compensation of Directors," the
"Compensation and Management Development Committee Report," the "Equity
Compensation Plan Information," and the "Performance Graph" sections of our
definitive Proxy Statement for our 2006 Annual Meeting of Common Stockholders,
dated March 20, 2006.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
         MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the
"Cytec Stock Ownership by Directors & Officers" and the "Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners" sections of our definitive Proxy Statement for our
2006 Annual Meeting of Common Stockholders, dated March 20, 2006.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the
"Certain Relationships and Related Transactions" section of our definitive Proxy
Statement for our 2006 Annual Meeting of Common Stockholders, dated March 20,
2006.

ITEM 14.     PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from the
"Fees Paid to the Auditors" section of our definitive Proxy Statement for our
2006 Annual Meeting of Common Stockholders, dated March 20, 2006.

                                      -76-
<PAGE>



PART IV

ITEM 15.     EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

         (a)(1) List of Financial Statements:

                  Cytec Industries Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated
                      Financial Statements (Refer to Item 8):

                  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004
                  Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years ended
                      December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
                  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years ended
                      December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
                  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the Years
                      ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

                  Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

         (a)(2)   Cytec Industries Inc. and Subsidiaries Financial
                      Statement Schedules

                  Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                  Schedules, other than "Schedule II---Valuation and Qualifying
                  Accounts," are omitted because of the absence of the
                  conditions under which they are required or because the
                  information called for are included in the consolidated
                  financial statements or notes thereto.

         (a)(3)   Exhibits.

EXHIBIT
  NO.     DESCRIPTION
- --------  -----------

3.1(a)         Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to
               exhibit 3.1(a) to Cytec's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the
               quarter ended September 30, 1996).

3.1(b)         Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation dated
               May 13, 1997 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3.1(a) to
               Cytec's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
               30, 1997).

3.1(c)         Conformed copy of the Cytec's certificate of incorporation, as
               amended (incorporated by reference to exhibit 3(c) to Cytec's
               registration statement on Form S-8, registration number
               333-45577).

3.2            By-laws, as amended through January 22, 2002 (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Cytec's annual report on Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 2001).

4.1            Form of Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to
               exhibit 4.1 to Cytec's registration statement on Form 10).

4.2(a)         Indenture, dated as of March 15, 1998 between the Cytec and PNC
               Bank, National Association as Trustee (incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 4.1 of Cytec's current report on Form 8-K, dated March
               18, 1998).

4.2(b)         Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 11, 1998 between the
               Cytec and PNC Bank National Association, as Trustee (incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Cytec's quarterly report on Form
               10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998).

4.3            6.75% Global Note due March 15, 2008 (incorporated by reference
               to Exhibit 4.3 of Cytec's current report on Form 8-K dated March
               18, 1998).

                                      -77-
<PAGE>

4.4            Stockholder's Agreement dated as of February 28, 2005 between
               Cytec and UCB SA (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 of
               Cytec's current report on Form 8-K dated March 4, 2005).

4.5            4.60% Senior Note due 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               4.2 to Cytec's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
               ended June 30, 2003).

4.6            5.500% Senior Note due 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               4.1 to Cytec's current report on Form 8-K, dated October 4,
               2005).

4.7            6.000% Senior Note due 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               4.2 to Cytec's current report on Form 8-K, dated October 4,
               2005).

10.1(a)        Five Year Term Loan Agreement dated as of February 15, 2005,
               among the Cytec, the banks named therein and Citigroup Global
               Markets, Inc., as lead arranger and book manager ("Term
               Agreement") (incorporated by reference to exhibit 99.2 to Cytec's
               current report on Form 8-K dated February 15, 2005).

10.1(b)        Letter Amendment No. 1 to Term Agreement dated as of March 1,
               2005.

10.1(c)        Letter Amendment No. 2 to Term Agreement dated as of November 11,
               2005.

10.1(d)        Letter Amendment No. 3 to Term Loan Agreement dated December 31,
               2005.

10.1(e)        Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of February 15, 2005, among
               the Cytec, the banks named therein and Citigroup Global Markets,
               Inc., as lead arranger and book manager ("Credit
               Agreement")(incorporated by reference to exhibit 99.3 to Cytec's
               current report on form 8-K dated February 15, 2005).

10.1(f)        Letter Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated as of November
               18, 2005.

10.1(g)        Letter Amendment No. 2 to Credit Agreement dated as of December
               31, 2005.

10.2           Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements (incorporated by
               reference to exhibit 10.12 to Cytec's annual report on Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 2003).

10.2(a)        1993 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, as amended through January
               1, 2006.

10.2(b)        Form of Performance Stock Award/Performance Cash Award Grant
               Letter (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.12(b) to Cytec's
               annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).

10.2(c)        Rule No. 1 under 1993 Stock Award and Incentive Plan as amended
               through January 20, 2003 (incorporated by reference to exhibit
               10.12(c) to Cytec's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 2002).

10.2(d)(i)     Form of Stock Option Grant Letter (incorporated by reference to
               exhibit 10.13(d) of Cytec's annual report on Form 10-K for the
               year ended December 31, 1998).

10.2(d)(ii)    Form of Stock Option Grant Letter used for grants to officers
               from January 21, 2002 through January 19, 2004 (incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.12(d)(ii) to Cytec's annual report on
               Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001).

10.2(d)(iii)   Form of Stock Option Grant Letter used for grants to officers
               from January 21, 2004 through February 8, 2006 (incorporated by
               reference to exhibit 10.12 to Cytec's annual report on Form 10-K
               for the year ended December 31, 2003).

10.2(d)(iv)    Form of Performance Stock Award Grant Letter used for grants to
               officers from January 21, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
               exhibit 10.12 to Cytec's annual report on Form 10-K for the year
               ended December 31, 2003).

10.2(d)(v)     Form of common stock settled Stock Appreciation Rights ("SARs")
               Award letter used for grants to officers from February 9, 2006.

10.2(d)(vi)    Form of Performance Cash Award letter used for grants to officers
               from February 9, 2006.

                                      -78-
<PAGE>

10.2(e)        Rule No. 2, as amended through January 27, 1997, under 1993 Stock
               Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to exhibit
               10.13(e) to Cytec's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended
               December 31, 1996).

10.2(f)        Executive Income Continuity Plan, as amended through September
               12, 2003 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.12(f) to
               Cytec's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
               September 30, 2003).

10.2(g)        Key Manager Income Continuity Plan, as amended through September
               12, 2003 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.12(g) to
               Cytec's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
               September 30, 2003).

10.2(h)        Employee Income Continuity Plan, as amended through September 12,
               2003 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.12(h) to Cytec's
               quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
               2003).

10.2(i)        Cytec Excess Retirement Benefit Plan, as amended through May 11,
               2000 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.12(j) to Cytec's
               quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
               2000).

10.2(j)        Cytec Supplemental Employees Retirement Plan, as amended through
               April 13, 2000 (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.12(k) to
               Cytec's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
               30, 2000).

10.2(k)        Cytec Executive Supplemental Employees Retirement Plan, as
               amended through October 14, 1999 (incorporated by reference to
               exhibit 10.13(k) to Cytec's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the
               quarter ended September 30, 1999).

10.2(l)        Cytec Compensation Tax Equalization Plan (incorporated by
               reference to exhibit 10(G) to Cytec's quarterly report on Form
               10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1994).

10.2(m)        Cytec Supplemental Savings and Profit Sharing Plan, as amended
               and restated through July 22, 2003 (incorporated by reference to
               exhibit 4.4 to Cytec's Registration Statement on Form S-8,
               registration number 333-107221).

10.2(n)        Amended and Restated Trust Agreement effective as of December 15,
               1994 between the Cytec and Vanguard Fiduciary Trust Company, as
               successor trustee (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.12(p)
               to Cytec's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
               31, 1999).

10.2(o)        Deferred Compensation Plan as amended through December 9, 2002
               (incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.12(o) to Cytec's annual
               report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002).

10.2(p)        Rule No. 4 under 1993 Stock Award and Incentive Plan as amended.

10.3           Relocation Agreement for Shane Fleming dated December 11, 2005.

10.4           Restricted Stock Award Agreement for James P. Cronin dated March
               1, 2005.

10.5           Restricted Stock Award Agreement for William N. Avrin dated March
               1, 2005.

10.6           Settlement Agreement by and between Cytec Surface Specialties NV
               and Benoit Van Assche dated November 30, 2005.

                                     -79-
<PAGE>

10.7           Employment Agreement by and between Benoit Van Assche and UCB
               dated June 29, 1998.

10.8           Supplementary Pension for Collective Life Management Code for
               Cytec Surface Specialities NV dated November 24, 2005.

10.9           Group Insurance Precautionary Plan for Cytec Surface
               Specialities NV dated August 8, 2005.

12             Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

21             Subsidiaries of the Company.

23             Consent of KPMG LLP.

24(a-i)        Powers of Attorney of J. E. Akitt, C.A. Davis, A.G. Fernandes, L.
               L. Hoynes, Jr., B. C. Johnson, W. P. Powell, J. R. Satrum, R. P.
               Sharpe and J. R. Stanley.

31.1           Certification of David Lilley, Chief Executive Officer pursuant
               to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the
               Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2           Certification of James P. Cronin, Chief Financial Officer
               pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of
               the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1           Certification of David Lilley, Chief Executive Officer pursuant
               to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
               the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2           Certification of James P. Cronin, Chief Financial Officer
               pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
               Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

                                      -80-
<PAGE>



                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, we have duly caused this report to be signed on our behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                  CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.
                                  (Registrant)



DATE:  February 28, 2006          By:  /S/ DAVID LILLEY
                                       ----------------
                                       D. Lilley
                                       Chairman, President and
                                       Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on our behalf and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.


DATE:  February 28, 2006              /S/ DAVID LILLEY
                                      ---------------------------------------
                                      D. Lilley
                                      Chairman, President and Chief Executive
                                      Officer



DATE:  February 28, 2006              /S/ J. P. CRONIN
                                      ---------------------------------
                                      J. P. Cronin, Executive Vice President,
                                      Chief Financial and Accounting Officer
     *
     -----------------------------------
     J. E. Akitt, Director

     *
     -----------------------------------
     C.A. Davis, Director

     *
     -----------------------------------
     A.G. Fernandes, Director

     *
     -----------------------------------
     L. L. Hoynes, Jr., Director
                                                      *By: /S/R. SMITH
                                                      ---------------------
                                                      Attorney-in-Fact
     *
     -----------------------------------
     B. C. Johnson, Director

     *
     -----------------------------------
     W. P. Powell, Director

     *
     -----------------------------------
     J. R. Satrum, Director

     *
     -----------------------------------
     R. P. Sharpe, Director

     *
     -----------------------------------
     J. R. Stanley, Director


DATE: February 28, 2006

                                      -81-

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                         SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2005, 2004 AND 2003
                                  (in millions)

                                                        ADDITIONS OR
                                                        (DEDUCTIONS)
                                                         CHARGED OR
                                   BALANCE               (CREDITED)          OTHER ADDITIONS       BALANCE
DESCRIPTION                       12/31/2004             TO EXPENSES         OR (DEDUCTIONS)     12/31/2005
- -----------                       ----------             -----------         ---------------     ----------
Reserves deducted from related assets:
<S>                               <C>                <C>                   <C>                  <C>
   Doubtful accounts
   receivable                    $     6.7               $    0.9               $     0.2  (1)   $      7.8
   Deferred tax asset
   valuation allowance           $    12.2               $    2.2               $     8.8  (2)   $     23.2
Environmental accruals           $    70.7               $    1.7               $    30.5  (3)   $    102.9
(1) Principally bad debts written off, less recoveries.
(2) Primarily attributable to the Surface Specialties acquisition.
(3) Environmental remediation spending net of $6.6, $(3.1) currency exchange and
$40.2 related to the Surface Specialties acquisition.


                                                        ADDITIONS OR
                                                        (DEDUCTIONS)
                                                         CHARGED OR
                                   BALANCE               (CREDITED)          OTHER ADDITIONS       BALANCE
DESCRIPTION                       12/31/2003             TO EXPENSES         OR (DEDUCTIONS)     12/31/2004
- -----------                       ----------             -----------         ---------------     ----------
Reserves deducted from
   related assets:
   Doubtful accounts
   receivable                  $     7.6              $     0.4             $    (l.3)  (1)      $      6.7
   Deferred tax asset
   valuation allowance         $     4.6                      -             $     7.6   (2)      $     12.2
Environmental accruals         $    79.6              $    (0.1)            $    (8.8)  (3)      $     70.7
(1) Principally bad debts written off, less recoveries.
(2) Primarily attributable to U. S. state income tax net operating loss and credit carryforwards.
(3) Environmental remediation spending, net of $0.6 currency exchange.

                                                       ADDITIONS OR
                                                       (DEDUCTIONS)
                                                        CHARGED OR
                                   BALANCE              (CREDITED)           OTHER ADDITIONS      BALANCE
DESCRIPTION                       12/31/2002            TO EXPENSES          OR (DEDUCTIONS)     12/31/2003
- -----------                       ----------            -----------          ---------------     ----------
Reserves deducted from
   related assets:
   Doubtful accounts
   receivable                    $    8.8              $     0.2             $    (l.4)   (1)    $      7.6
   Deferred tax asset
   valuation allowance                  -                      -             $     4.6    (2)    $      4.6
Environmental accruals           $   83.7              $     1.8             $    (5.9)   (3)    $     79.6
Total investments, advances
   and other assets
                                 $   17.0                      -             $   (17.0)  (4)    $        -

(1)            Principally bad debts written off, less recoveries.

(2)            Attributable to U. S. state income tax net operating loss
               carryforwards.

(3)            Environmental remediation spending of $9.3, net of $1.7 currency
               exchange and $1.7 for the gross up of a certain liability and
               related receivable.

(4)            Liquidation of associated company and write-off of preferred
               stock of company in bankruptcy both of which were fully reserved.
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.1(B)
<TEXT>

                                                                 Exhibit 10.1(b)



               LETTER AMENDMENT TO FIVE YEAR TERM LOAN AGREEMENT



                                                Dated as of March 1, 2005

To the banks, financial institutions
     and other institutional lenders
     (collectively, the "Lenders") parties
     to the Credit Agreement referred to
     below and to Citicorp North America, Inc., as agent
     (the "Agent") for the Lenders

Ladies and Gentlemen:

               We refer to the Five Year Term Loan Agreement dated as of
February 15, 2005 (the "Credit Agreement") among the undersigned and you.
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Letter Amendment have the same
meanings as specified in the Credit Agreement.

               It is hereby agreed by you and us as follows:

               Section 2.01 of the Credit Agreement is, effective as of the date
of this Letter Amendment, hereby amended in full to read as follows:

               SECTION 2.01. The Advances. Each Lender severally agrees, on the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Advances to any Borrower
from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date
until April 5, 2005 in an aggregate amount (based in respect of any Advances to
be denominated in Euros by reference to the Equivalent thereof in Dollars
determined on the date of delivery of the applicable Notice of Borrowing)
outstanding at any time for all Borrowers not to exceed such Lender's
Commitment. Each Borrowing shall be in an amount not less than the Borrowing
Minimum or the Borrowing Multiple in excess thereof and shall consist of
Advances of the same Type and in the same currency made on the same day by the
Lenders ratably according to their respective Commitments. Until April 5, 2005
and within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, the Borrowers may borrow
under this Section 2.01, prepay pursuant to Section 2.09(a) and reborrow under
this Section 2.01.

               This Letter Amendment shall become effective as of the date first
above written when, and only when, the Agent shall have received counterparts of
this Letter Amendment executed by the undersigned and all of the Lenders or, as
to any of the Lenders, advice satisfactory to the Agent that such Lender has
executed this Letter Amendment.

               On and after the effectiveness of this Letter Amendment, each
reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof" or
words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in
the Notes and each of the other Loan Documents, if any, to "the Credit
Agreement", "thereunder", "thereof" or words of like import referring to the
Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as
amended by this Letter Amendment.

<PAGE>

               The Credit Agreement, the Notes and each of the other Loan
Documents, as specifically amended by this Letter Amendment, are and shall
continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified
and confirmed. The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Letter
Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of
any right, power or remedy of any Lender or the Agent under the Credit
Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement.

               If you agree to the terms and provisions hereof, please evidence
such agreement by executing and returning at least three counterparts of this
Letter Amendment to Susan L. Hobart, Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington
Avenue, New York, New York 10022.

               This Letter Amendment may be executed in any number of
counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of
which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed
counterpart of a signature page to this Letter Amendment by telecopier shall be
effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Letter
Amendment.

               This Letter Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

                                        Very truly yours,


                                        CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.


                                        By: /S/ T. Wozniak
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Title: Treasurer


Agreed as of the date first above written:

CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC.,
        as Agent and as Lender

By: /S/ Carolynee Sheridan
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Managing Director & Vice President


WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By: /S/ Barbara Van M
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Director











<PAGE>

ABN AMRO BANK N.V.

By: /S/ Robert H. Steelman
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Director


By:
    -----------------------------------------
    Title:


CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH

By: /S/ Scott R. Chappelka
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Director


By: /S/ Michael Madnick
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Director


THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA

By: /S/Todd S. Meller
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Managing Director


SUNTRUST BANK

By: /S/ Robert Bugbee
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Director


THE BANK OF NEW YORK

By: /S/ Ernest Fung
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President


COMMERZBANK AG, NEW YORK AND GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES

By: /S/ Robert Traylor
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Senior Vice President

By: /S/ Andrew P. Lusk
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President


FORTIS CAPITAL CORP.

By: /S/ Kathleen de Lathauwe
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Senior Vice President



<PAGE>

By: /S/ Diran Cholakian
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President


BAYERISCHE HYPO-UND VERSEINSBANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH

By: /S/
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Director


By: /S/
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Associate Director


PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By: /S/
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Senior Vice President


SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP., NEW YORK

By: /S/ Edward McColly
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President & Dept. Head


UFJ BANK LIMITED

By: /S/
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President


BANK OF CHINA, NEW YORK BRANCH

By: /S/
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Chief Lending Officer


KBC BANK, N.V.

By: /S/ R. Snauffer
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: First Vice President


By: /S/ Robert M. Surdam, Jr.
    -----------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_1c.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.1(C)
<TEXT>

                                                                 Exhibit 10.1(c)


             LETTER AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO FIVE YEAR TERM LOAN AGREEMENT



                                        Dated as of November 11, 2005

To the banks, financial institutions
        and other institutional lenders
        (collectively, the "Lenders") parties
        to the Credit Agreement referred to
        below and to Citicorp North America, Inc., as agent
        (the "Agent") for the Lenders

Ladies and Gentlemen:

               We refer to the Five Year Term Loan Agreement dated as of
February 15, 2005, as amended as of March 1, 2005 (the "Credit Agreement") among
the undersigned and you. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Letter
Amendment have the same meanings as specified in the Credit Agreement.

               It is hereby agreed by you and us as follows:

               (a)  The last sentence of Section 2.09(a) of the Credit Agreement
is, effective as of the date of this Letter Amendment, hereby amended in full to
read as follows:

               Each such prepayment shall be applied to the installments of the
Advances in forward order of maturity.

               (b)  The second sentence of Section 2.09(b)(iv) of the Credit
Agreement is, effective as of the date of this Letter Amendment, hereby amended
in full to read as follows:

               Each such prepayment shall be applied to the installments of the
Advances in forward order of maturity.

               (c)  Exhibit F to the Credit Agreement is, effective as of the
date of this Letter Amendment, hereby amended by deleting from Section 1 thereof
the phrase "any Hedge Agreements entered into by the Company and any Lender" and
substituting therefor the phrase "any Hedge Agreements entered into by the
Company and any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender".

               This Letter Amendment shall become effective as of the date first
above written when, and only when, the Agent shall have received counterparts of
this Letter Amendment executed by the undersigned and the Required Lenders or,
as to any of the Lenders, advice satisfactory to the Agent that such Lender has
executed this Letter Amendment.

<PAGE>

               On and after the effectiveness of this Letter Amendment, each
reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof" or
words of like import referring to the C1redit Agreement, and each reference in
the Notes and each of the other Loan Documents, if any, to "the Credit
Agreement", "thereunder", "thereof" or words of like import referring to the
Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as
amended by this Letter Amendment.

               The Credit Agreement, the Notes and each of the other Loan
Documents, as specifically amended by this Letter Amendment, are and shall
continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified
and confirmed. The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Letter
Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of
any right, power or remedy of any Lender or the Agent under the Credit
Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement.

               If you agree to the terms and provisions hereof, please evidence
such agreement by executing and returning at least three counterparts of this
Letter Amendment to Susan L. Hobart, Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington
Avenue, New York, New York 10022.

               This Letter Amendment may be executed in any number of
counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of
which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed
counterpart of a signature page to this Letter Amendment by telecopier shall be
effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Letter
Amendment.

               This Letter Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

                                                     Very truly yours,


                                                     CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.


                                                     By: /S/ T. Wozniak
                                                         -----------------------
                                                         Title: Treasurer


Agreed as of the date first above written:

CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC.,
        as Agent and as Lender

By: /S/ Irina Lurye
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Director


<PAGE>



WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By: /S/Barbara Van Meerten
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Director


ABN AMRO BANK N.V.

By: /S/ Robert H. Steelman
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Director


By: /S/ Christopher M. Plumb
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President


CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH

By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:


By
    --------------------------------------------
    Title:


THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA

By: /S/ Thane Rattew
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Managing Director


SUNTRUST BANK

By: /S/ Robert Maddox
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President


THE BANK OF NEW YORK

By: /S/ Ernest Fung
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President


COMMERZBANK AG, NEW YORK AND GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES

By: /S/ Robert Traylor
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Senior Vice President


By: /S/ Andrew P. Lusk
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President

<PAGE>


FORTIS CAPITAL CORP.

By: /S/ John W. Deegan
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Senior Vice President


By: /S/ Douglas Riahi
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Managing Director


BAYERISCHE HYPO-UND VERSEINSBANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH

By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:


By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:


PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By: /S/ Michael Nardo
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Senior Vice President


SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP., NEW YORK

By: /S/ David A. Buck
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Senior Vice President


UFJ BANK LIMITED

By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:


BANK OF CHINA, NEW YORK BRANCH

By: /S/ William W. Smith
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Deputy General Manager


KBC BANK, N.V.

By: /S/ Robert M. Surdam, Jr.
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President


By: /S/ Michael V. Curran
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: First Vice President
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_1d.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.1(D)
<TEXT>

                                                                 Exhibit 10.1(d)


             LETTER AMENDMENT NO. 3 TO FIVE YEAR TERM LOAN AGREEMENT



                                                Dated as of December 31, 2005

To the banks, financial institutions
        and other institutional lenders
        (collectively, the "Lenders") parties
        to the Credit Agreement referred to
        below and to Citicorp North America, Inc., as agent
        (the "Agent") for the Lenders
              -----

Ladies and Gentlemen:

               We refer to the Five Year Term Loan Agreement dated as of
February 15, 2005, as amended as of March 1, 2005 and November 11, 2005 (the
"Credit Agreement") among the undersigned and you. Capitalized terms not
otherwise defined in this Letter Amendment have the same meanings as specified
in the Credit Agreement.

               It is hereby agreed by you and us as follows:

               The definition of "EBITDA" in Section 1.01 of the Credit
Agreement is amended by adding immediately after the phrase "such net income (or
net loss)" at the end of clause (f) the following: "and (g) without duplication
of clause (e) above, restructuring charges in an aggregate amount not to exceed
$35,000,000 taken between October 1, 2005 and June 30, 2006 related to the
consolidation of the Cytec Performance Specialties division and the Cytec
Surface Specialties division into a single unit".

               This Letter Amendment shall become effective as of the date first
above written when, and only when, the Agent shall have received counterparts of
this Letter Amendment executed by the undersigned and the Required Lenders or,
as to any of the Lenders, advice satisfactory to the Agent that such Lender has
executed this Letter Amendment.

               On and after the effectiveness of this Letter Amendment, each
reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof" or
words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in
the Notes and each of the other Loan Documents, if any, to "the Credit
Agreement", "thereunder", "thereof" or words of like import referring to the
Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as
amended by this Letter Amendment.

               The Credit Agreement, the Notes and each of the other Loan
Documents, as specifically amended by this Letter Amendment, are and shall
continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified
and confirmed. The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Letter
Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of
any right, power or remedy of any Lender or the Agent under the Credit
Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement.

<PAGE>

               If you agree to the terms and provisions hereof, please evidence
such agreement by executing and returning at least three counterparts of this
Letter Amendment to Susan L. Hobart, Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington
Avenue, New York, New York 10022.

               This Letter Amendment may be executed in any number of
counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of
which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed
counterpart of a signature page to this Letter Amendment by telecopier shall be
effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Letter
Amendment.

               This Letter Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

                                                     Very truly yours,


                                                     CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.


                                                     By    /s/  T.P. Wozniak
                                                        ------------------------
                                                        Title: Treasurer


Agreed as of the date first above written:

CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC.,
        as Agent and as Lender

By       /s/ Daniel Gouger
         ------------------
Title:   Vice President


WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By       /s/ Barbara Van Meerten
         -----------------------
Title:   Director


ABN AMRO BANK N.V.

By       /s/ Robert H. Steelman
         ----------------------
Title:   Director


By       /s/ Luc Perrot
         --------------
Title:   Assistant Vice President



                                        2



<PAGE>

CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH

By       /s/ James D.A. Gibson
         ---------------------
Title:   Managing Director


By       /s/ Michael Madnick
         -------------------
Title:   Director


THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA

By       /s/ T.S. Meller
         ---------------
Title:   Managing Director


SUNTRUST BANK

By       /s/ Robert Maddox
         -----------------
Title:   Vice President


THE BANK OF NEW YORK

By       /s/ Ernest Fung
         ---------------
Title:   Vice President


COMMERZBANK AG, NEW YORK AND GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES

By       /s/ Robert S. Traylor, Jr.
         --------------------------
Title:   Senior Vice President


By       /s/ Andrew P. Lusk
         ------------------
Title:   Vice President


FORTIS CAPITAL CORP.

By       /s/ Catherine Gilbert
         ---------------------
Title:   Vice President


By       /s/ Steven Silverstein
         ----------------------
Title:   Vice President


BAYERISCHE HYPO-UND VERSEINSBANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH

By       /s/ Ken Hamilton
         ----------------
Title:   Director



                                        3


<PAGE>

By       /s/ Kimberly D. Sousa
         ----------------------
Title:   Director


PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By       /s/ Michael Nardo
         -----------------
Title:   Senior Vice President


SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP., NEW YORK

By       /s/ Yoshihiro Hyakutome
         -----------------------
Title:   Joint General Manager


THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD.,
NEW YORK BRANCH,
successor by merger to UFJ Bank Ltd.

By       /s/ Maria Ferradas
         ------------------
Title:   Authorized Signatory


BANK OF CHINA, NEW YORK BRANCH

By       /s/ William Warren Smith
         ------------------------
Title:   Chief Lending Officer


KBC BANK, N.V.

By
         -------------------------
Title:


By
         -------------------------
Title:


BANK OF TAIWAN

By
         -------------------------
Title:


FIRST COMMERCIAL BANK

By
         -------------------------
Title:


STATE BANK OF INDIA

By
         -------------------------
Title:


CHANG HWA COMMERCIAL BANK, LTD.

By       /s/ Chen Yu Chen
         ----------------
Title:   Vice President & General Manager



                                        4
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_1f.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.1(F)
<TEXT>

                                                                 Exhibit 10.1(f)


              LETTER AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO FIVE YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT



                                                Dated as of November 18, 2005

To the banks, financial institutions
        and other institutional lenders
        (collectively, the "Lenders") parties
        to the Credit Agreement referred to
        below and to Citicorp North America, Inc., as agent
        (the "Agent") for the Lenders

Ladies and Gentlemen:

               We refer to the Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of February
15, 2005 (the "Credit Agreement") among the undersigned and you. Capitalized
terms not otherwise defined in this Letter Amendment have the same meanings as
specified in the Credit Agreement.

               It is hereby agreed by you and us as follows:

               Exhibit F to the Credit Agreement is, effective as of the date of
this Letter Amendment, hereby amended by deleting from Section 1 thereof the
phrase "any Hedge Agreements entered into by the Company and any Lender" and
substituting therefor the phrase "any Hedge Agreements entered into by the
Company and any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender".

               This Letter Amendment shall become effective as of the date first
above written when, and only when, the Agent shall have received counterparts of
this Letter Amendment executed by the undersigned and the Required Lenders or,
as to any of the Lenders, advice satisfactory to the Agent that such Lender has
executed this Letter Amendment.

               On and after the effectiveness of this Letter Amendment, each
reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof" or
words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in
the Notes and each of the other Loan Documents, if any, to "the Credit
Agreement", "thereunder", "thereof" or words of like import referring to the
Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as
amended by this Letter Amendment.

               The Credit Agreement, the Notes and each of the other Loan
Documents, as specifically amended by this Letter Amendment, are and shall
continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified
and confirmed. The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Letter
Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of
any right, power or remedy of any Lender or the Agent under the Credit
Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement.

<PAGE>

               If you agree to the terms and provisions hereof, please evidence
such agreement by executing and returning at least three counterparts of this
Letter Amendment to Susan L. Hobart, Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington
Avenue, New York, New York 10022.

               This Letter Amendment may be executed in any number of
counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of
which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed
counterpart of a signature page to this Letter Amendment by telecopier shall be
effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Letter
Amendment.

               This Letter Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

                                                     Very truly yours,


                                                     CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.


                                                     By: /S/ T. Wozniak
                                                         -----------------------
                                                         Title: Treasurer


Agreed as of the date first above written:

CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC.,
        as Agent and as Lender

By: /S/ Irina Lurye
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Director


WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:


ABN AMRO BANK N.V.

By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:


By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:




                                        2

<PAGE>

CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH

By: /S/ Yuri Muzichenko
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President


By: /S/ Mike J. Madnick
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Director


THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA

By: /S/ Thane Rattew
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Managing Director


SUNTRUST BANK

By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:


THE BANK OF NEW YORK

By: /S/ Ernest Fung
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President


COMMERZBANK AG, NEW YORK AND GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES

By: /S/ Robert Traylor, Jr.
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Senior Vice President


By: /S/ Andrew P. Lusk
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Vice President


FORTIS CAPITAL CORP.

By: /S/ John W. Deegan
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Senior Vice President


By: /S/ Douglas Riahi
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Managing Director


BAYERISCHE HYPO-UND VERSEINSBANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH

By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:



                                        3

<PAGE>


By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:


PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By: /S/ Michael Nardo
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Senior Vice President


SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP., NEW YORK

By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:


UFJ BANK LIMITED

By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:


BANK OF CHINA, NEW YORK BRANCH

By: /S/ William W. Smith
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title: Deputy General Manager


KBC BANK, N.V.

By
    ---------------------------------------------
    Title:


By
    --------------------------------------------
    Title:
















                                        4
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_1g.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.1(G)
<TEXT>
                                                                 Exhibit 10.1(g)


              LETTER AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO FIVE YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT



                                                Dated as of December 31, 2005

To the banks, financial institutions
        and other institutional lenders
        (collectively, the "Lenders") parties
        to the Credit Agreement referred to
        below and to Citicorp North America, Inc., as agent
        (the "Agent") for the Lenders
              -----

Ladies and Gentlemen:

               We refer to the Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of February
15, 2005, as amended by Letter Amendment No. 1 dated as of November 18, 2005
(the "Credit Agreement") among the undersigned and you. Capitalized terms not
otherwise defined in this Letter Amendment have the same meanings as specified
in the Credit Agreement.

               It is hereby agreed by you and us as follows:

               The definition of "EBITDA" in Section 1.01 of the Credit
Agreement is amended by adding immediately after the phrase "such net income (or
net loss)" at the end of clause (f) the following: "and (g) without duplication
of clause (e) above, restructuring charges in an aggregate amount not to exceed
$35,000,000 taken between October 1, 2005 and June 30, 2006 related to the
consolidation of the Cytec Performance Specialties division and the Cytec
Surface Specialties division into a single unit".

               This Letter Amendment shall become effective as of the date first
above written when, and only when, the Agent shall have received counterparts of
this Letter Amendment executed by the undersigned and the Required Lenders or,
as to any of the Lenders, advice satisfactory to the Agent that such Lender has
executed this Letter Amendment.

               On and after the effectiveness of this Letter Amendment, each
reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof" or
words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in
the Notes and each of the other Loan Documents, if any, to "the Credit
Agreement", "thereunder", "thereof" or words of like import referring to the
Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as
amended by this Letter Amendment.

               The Credit Agreement, the Notes and each of the other Loan
Documents, as specifically amended by this Letter Amendment, are and shall
continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified
and confirmed. The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Letter
Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of
any right, power or remedy of any Lender or the Agent under the Credit
Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement.



<PAGE>

               If you agree to the terms and provisions hereof, please evidence
such agreement by executing and returning at least three counterparts of this
Letter Amendment to Susan L. Hobart, Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington
Avenue, New York, New York 10022.

               This Letter Amendment may be executed in any number of
counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of
which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed
counterpart of a signature page to this Letter Amendment by telecopier shall be
effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Letter
Amendment.

               This Letter Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

                                                     Very truly yours,


                                                     CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.


                                                     By     /s/ T.P. Wozniak
                                                        ------------------------
                                                            Title: Treasurer


Agreed as of the date first above written:

CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC.,
        as Agent and as Lender

By      /s/ Daniel Gouger
        -----------------
Title:  Vice President


WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By      /s/ Barbara Van Meerten
        -----------------------
Title:  Director


ABN AMRO BANK N.V.

By      /s/ Robert H. Steelman
        ----------------------
Title:  Director


By      /s/ Luc Perrot
        --------------
Title:  Assistant Vice President



                                        2

<PAGE>

CALYON NEW YORK BRANCH

By      /s/ Alex Averbukh
        -----------------
Title:  Vice President


By      /s/ Michael Madnick
        -------------------
Title:  Director


THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA

By      /s/ T.S. (Todd) Meller
        ----------------------
Title:  Managing Director


SUNTRUST BANK

By      /s/ Robert Maddox
        -----------------
Title:  Vice President


THE BANK OF NEW YORK

By      /s/ Ernest Fung
        ---------------
Title:  Vice President


COMMERZBANK AG, NEW YORK AND GRAND CAYMAN BRANCHES

By      /s/ Robert S. Traylor, Jr.
        --------------------------
Title:  Senior Vice President


By      /s/ Andrew P. Lusk
        ------------------
Title:  Vice President


FORTIS CAPITAL CORP.

By      /s/ Catherine Gilbert
        ---------------------
Title:  Vice President


By      /s/ Steven Silverstein
        ----------------------
Title:  Vice President


BAYERISCHE HYPO-UND VERSEINSBANK AG, NEW YORK BRANCH

By      /s/ Ken Hamilton
        ----------------
Title:  Director



                                        3

<PAGE>

By      /s/ Kimberly Sousa
        ------------------
Title:  Director


PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION

By      /s/ Michael Nardo
        -----------------
Title:  Senior Vice President


SUMITOMO MITSUI BANKING CORP., NEW YORK

By      /s/ Yoshihiro Hyakutome
        -----------------------
Title:  Joint General Manager


THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD.,
NEW YORK BRANCH,
successor by merger to UFJ Bank Ltd.

By      /s/ Maria Ferradas
        ------------------
Title:  Authorized Signatory


BANK OF CHINA, NEW YORK BRANCH

By      /s/ William Warren Smith
        ------------------------
Title:  Chief Lending Officer


KBC BANK, N.V.

By      /s/ Robert M. Surdam, Jr.
        -------------------------
Title:  Vice President


By      /s/ R. Snauffer
        ---------------
Title:  First Vice President


BANK OF TAIWAN

By
        ---------------------------
Title:


FIRST COMMERCIAL BANK

By
        ---------------------------
Title:


STATE BANK OF INDIA

By
        ---------------------------
Title:



                                        4
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>7
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_2a.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.2(A)
<TEXT>

                                                                 Exhibit 10.2(a)


                    As Amended & Readopted 1/27/97 & 5/12/97
                        and as Further Amended on 4/11/02
             and as Further Amended & Readopted on 1/21/03 & 4/17/03
                  and as Further Amended on 10/16/03 & 1/01/06



                              CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.

                       1993 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN


               1.   Purpose; Types of Awards; Construction.

               The purpose of the 1993 Stock Award and Incentive Plan of Cytec
Industries Inc., as amended (the "Plan"), is to afford an incentive to selected
employees, prospective employees, non-employee Directors and independent
contractors of Cytec Industries Inc., or any Subsidiary or Affiliate which now
exists or hereafter is organized or acquired, to acquire a proprietary interest
in the Company, to continue as, or become, employees, directors, or independent
contractors, as the case may be, to increase their efforts on behalf of the
Company and to promote the success of the Company's business. Pursuant to
Section 6 of the Plan, there may be granted Stock Options (including "incentive
stock options" and "nonqualified stock options"), stock appreciation rights and
limited stock appreciation rights (either in connection with options granted
under the Plan or independently of options), restricted stock, restricted stock
units, interest equivalents, dividend equivalents, deferred cash awards,
deferred stock awards, and other stock-based or cash-based awards.

               2.   Definitions.

               For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall be defined as
set forth below:

                    (a) "Affiliate" means any entity if, at the time of granting
of an Award, (i) the Company, directly or indirectly, owns at least 20% of the
combined voting power of all classes of stock of such entity or at least 20% of
the ownership interests in such entity or (ii) such entity, directly or
indirectly, owns at least 20% of the combined voting power of all classes of
stock of the Company.

                    (b) "Award" means any Option, SAR (including a Limited SAR),
Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Interest Equivalent, Dividend
Equivalent, Deferred Cash Award, Deferred Stock Award, Director's Restricted
Stock, or Other Stock-Based Award or other Cash-Based Award granted under the
Plan.

                    (c) "Award Agreement" means any written agreement, contract,
grant letter, resolution of the Committee, or other instrument, document or
resolution evidencing an Award.

                                                                               1

<PAGE>

                    (d) "Beneficiary" means the person, persons, trust or trusts
which have been designated by a Grantee in his or her most recent written
beneficiary designation filed with the Company to receive the benefits specified
under the Plan upon his or her death, or, if there is no designated Beneficiary
or surviving designated Beneficiary, then the person, persons, trust or trusts
entitled by will or the laws of descent and distribution to receive such
benefits.

                    (e) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

                    (f) "Change in Control" shall mean the following:

                    (1) For Awards granted on or before December 31, 2004,
"Change in Control" means a change in control of the Company which will be
deemed to have occurred if:

                         (i) any "person," as such term is used in Sections
13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than (1) the Company, (2) any trustee
or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the
Company, or (3) any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the
stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their
ownership of Stock), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule
13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the
Company representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's
then outstanding voting securities; or

                         (ii) during any period of two consecutive years,
individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board, and any
new director (other than a director designated by a person who has entered into
an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in clause (i),
(iii), or (iv) of this Section 2(f)) whose election by the Board or nomination
for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least
two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors
at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was
previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority
thereof; or

                         (iii) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger
or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than (A) a
merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the
Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by
remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the
surviving or parent entity) 50% or more of the combined voting power of the
voting securities of the Company or such surviving or parent entity outstanding
immediately after such merger or consolidation or (B) a merger or consolidation
effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction)
in which no "person" (as hereinabove defined) acquired 50% or more of the
combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or

                         (iv) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of
complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition
by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets (or any
transaction having a similar effect).

                    (2) For Awards granted on or after January 1, 2005, "Change
in Control" shall mean a change in the ownership or effective control of the
Company, or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the
Company, as defined and determined under Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Code

                                                                               2

<PAGE>

(or its successor provisions), including all guidance issued thereunder. Without
in any way limiting the scope of the preceding sentence, a Change of Control
shall be deemed to occur on the date upon which one of the following events
occurs:

                         (i) any one person, or more than one person acting as a
group, acquires ownership of stock of the Company that, together with stock held
by such person or group, constitutes more than 50% of either the total fair
market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company; or

                         (ii) any one person, or more than one person acting as
a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date
of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of stock of
the Company possessing 35% or more of the total voting power of the Company; or

                         (iii) a majority of members of the Board is replaced
during any 12-month period by directors whose appointment or election is not
recommended by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the
appointment or election; or

                         (iv) any one person, or more than one person acting as
a group, acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date
of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) assets from the
Company that have a total gross fair market value equal to or more than 40% of
the total gross fair market value of all of the assets of the Company
immediately prior to such acquisition or acquisitions.

                    (g) "Change in Control Price" means the higher of (i) the
highest price per share paid in any transaction constituting a Change in Control
or (ii) the highest Fair Market Value per share at any time during the 60-day
period preceding or following a Change in Control.

                    (h) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended from time to time.

                    (i) "Committee" means the committee consisting solely of
directors who qualify as "non-employee directors" within the meaning of Rule
16b-3 and as "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the
Code who are appointed by the Board to administer the Plan.

                    (j) "Common Stock Account" means the common stock account
established in the name of an employee or independent contractor, as specified
in Section 6(h).

                    (k) "Company" means Cytec Industries Inc., a corporation
organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, or any successor corporation.

                    (l) "Deferred Cash Account" means the deferred cash account
established in the name of an employee or independent contractor, as specified
in Section 6(h).

                    (m) "Deferred Cash Award" means any Award of cash made
pursuant to Section 6(h) which is to be credited to a Deferred Cash Account and
paid in the future.

                                                                               3

<PAGE>

                    (n) "Deferred Stock Award" means any Award of Stock made
pursuant to Section 6(h) which is to be credited to a Common Stock Account and
paid in the future.

                    (o) "Dividend Equivalent" means a right, granted to a
Grantee under Section 6(g), to receive cash, Stock, or other property equal in
value to dividends paid with respect to a specified number of shares of Stock.
Dividend Equivalents may be awarded on a free-standing basis or in connection
with another Award, and may be paid currently or on a deferred basis.

                    (p) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended from time to time, and as now or hereafter construed,
interpreted and applied by regulations, rulings and cases.

                    (q) "Fair Market Value" means, with respect to Stock or
other property, the fair market value of such Stock or other property determined
by such methods or procedures as shall be established (except as provided below)
from time to time by the Committee in its sole discretion. Unless otherwise
determined by the Committee, the per share Fair Market Value of Stock as of a
particular date shall mean (i) the closing sales price per share of Stock on the
national securities exchange on which the Stock is principally traded, for the
last preceding date on which there was a sale of such Stock on such exchange
(or, if there is no such preceding date, on the first succeeding date), or (ii)
if the shares of Stock are then traded in an over-the-counter market, the
average of the closing bid and asked prices for the shares of Stock in such
over-the-counter market for the last preceding date on which there was a sale of
such Stock in such market, or (iii) if the shares of Stock are not then listed
on a national securities exchange or traded in an over-the counter market, such
value as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine. For purposes of
Sections 8 and 9, only, of this Plan, the per share Fair Market Value of Stock
as of a particular date shall mean, as it relates to grants prior to January 1,
2006, (i) the closing sales price per share of Stock on the national securities
exchange on which the Stock is principally traded, for the last preceding date
on which there was a sale of such Stock on such exchange, or (ii) if the shares
of Stock are then traded in an over-the-counter market, the average of the
closing bid and asked prices for the shares of Stock in such over-the-counter
market for the last preceding date on which there was a sale of such Stock in
such market.

                    (r) "Grantee" means a person who, (i) as an employee,
prospective employee or independent contractor of the Company, a Subsidiary or
an Affiliate, or (ii) as a Non-Employee Director of the Company, has been
granted an Award under the Plan.

                    (s) "Interest Equivalent" means a right granted to a Grantee
under Section 6(g) to receive cash, which may be deferred or paid currently,
equal to the interest which would be earned on a specified amount of money,
including money deferred in a Deferred Cash Account. Interest Equivalents may be
awarded on a free-standing basis or in connection with another Award, and may be
paid currently or on a deferred basis. Unless the Committee otherwise provides
to the contrary or except as otherwise provided in the Plan, Interest
Equivalents paid on a deferred basis will be compounded on a quarterly basis.

                    (t) "ISO" means any Option intended to be, and designated
as, an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.

                    (u) "Limited SAR" means a right granted pursuant to Section
6(c) which shall, in general, be automatically exercised for cash upon a Change
in Control.

                                                                               4

<PAGE>

                    (v) "Non-Employee Director" means a member of the Board who
is not an employee of the Company, a Subsidiary or Affiliate.

                    (w) "NQSO" means any Option that is designated as a
nonqualified stock option.

                    (x) "Option" means a right, granted to a Grantee under
Section 6(b) or Section 8, to purchase shares of Stock.

                    (y) "Other Cash-Based Award" means cash awarded under
Section 6(i), including cash awarded as a bonus or upon the attainment of
specified performance criteria or otherwise as permitted under the Plan.

                    (z) "Other Stock-Based Award" means a right or other
interest granted to a Grantee under Section 6(i) that may be denominated or
payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on,
or related to, Stock, including, but not limited to (1) unrestricted Stock
awarded as a bonus or upon the attainment of specified performance criteria or
otherwise as permitted under the Plan and (2) a right granted to a Grantee to
acquire Stock from the Company for cash and/or a promissory note containing
terms and conditions prescribed by the Committee.

                    (aa) "Performance Goals" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 6A(c) of the Plan.

                    (bb) "Performance Measures" means the performance measures
set forth as Exhibit A to the Plan, as provided in Section 6A(c) of the Plan.

                    (cc) "Plan" means this Cytec Industries Inc. 1993 Stock
Award and Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.

                    (dd) "Restricted Stock" means an Award of shares of Stock to
a Grantee under Section 6(d), including Stock that may be designated as
performance stock, that may be subject to certain restrictions and to a risk of
forfeiture.

                    (ee) "Restricted Stock Unit" means a right granted to a
Grantee under Section 6(e) to receive Stock or cash at the end of a specified
deferral period, which right may be conditioned on the satisfaction of specified
performance or other criteria.

                    (ff) "Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3, as from time to time in
effect, promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16
of the Exchange Act, including any successor to such Rule.

                    (gg) "Stock" means shares of the common stock, par value
$.01 per share, of the Company.

                    (hh) "SAR" or "Stock Appreciation Right" means the right,
granted to a Grantee under Section 6(c), to be paid an amount measured by the

                                                                               5

<PAGE>

appreciation in the Fair Market Value of Stock from the date of grant to the
date of exercise of the right, with payment to be made in cash, Stock, or
property as specified in the Award or determined by the Committee.

                         (ii) "Subsidiary" means any entity in an unbroken chain
of entities beginning with the Company if, at the time of granting of an Award,
each of the entities (other than the last entity in the unbroken chain) owns
stock or other indicia of ownership possessing 50% or more of the total combined
voting power of all classes of stock or other indicia of ownership in one of the
other entities in the chain.

                         (jj) "Unforeseeable Financial Emergency" shall mean a
severe financial hardship to the Grantee resulting from an illness or accident
of the Grantee, the Grantee's spouse, or a dependent (as defined in Section
152(a) of the Code) of the Grantee, loss of the Grantee's property due to
casualty, or other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising
as a result of events beyond the control of the Grantee. Whether a Grantee has
an Unforeseeable Financial Emergency shall be determined in the sole discretion
of the Committee.

               3.   Administration.

               The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.. The Committee
shall have the authority in its discretion, subject to and not inconsistent with
the express provisions of the Plan (including the preceding sentence), to
administer the Plan and to exercise all the powers and authorities either
specifically granted to it under the Plan or necessary or advisable in the
administration of the Plan, including, without limitation, the authority to
grant Awards; to determine the persons to whom and the time or times at which
Awards shall be granted; to determine the type and number of Awards to be
granted, the number of shares of Stock to which an Award may relate and the
terms, conditions, restrictions and performance criteria relating to any Award;
to certify as to the extent to which any performance criteria have been
attained; and to determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances
an Award may be settled, canceled, forfeited, exchanged, or surrendered; to make
adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria and performance
objectives (if any) included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or
non-recurring events affecting the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate or the
financial statements of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate, or in
response to changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles;
to designate Affiliates; to construe and interpret the Plan and any Award; to
prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; to
determine the terms and provisions of the Award Agreements (which need not be
identical for each Grantee); and to make all other determinations deemed
necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.

               The Committee may appoint a chairman and a secretary and may make
such rules and regulations for the conduct of its business as it shall deem
advisable, and shall keep minutes of its meetings. All determinations of the
Committee shall be made by a majority of its members either present in person or
participating by conference telephone at a meeting or by written consent. All
decisions, determinations and interpretations of the Committee shall be final
and binding on all persons, including the Company, and any Subsidiary, Affiliate
or Grantee (or any person claiming any rights under the Plan from or through any
Grantee) and any stockholder. The Committee may delegate to one or more of its
members or to one or more agents such administrative duties as it may deem
advisable, and the Committee or any person to whom it has delegated duties as
aforesaid may employ one or more persons to render advice with respect to any

                                                                               6

<PAGE>

responsibility the Committee or such person may have under the Plan. The
Committee may, upon such terms and conditions and with such limitations as it
deems appropriate, delegate to the Chief Executive Officer, any Committee of the
Board of Directors or the Executive Committee authority to make Awards (and
determine the terms of such Awards) to persons who are not officers of the
Company (assistant officers not being considered officers for such purpose);
provided that all such Awards shall be reported to the Committee and (except in
the case of such Awards made by a Committee of the Board) shall be revoked
unless ratified by the Committee.

               No member of the Board or Committee shall be liable for any
action taken or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any
Award granted hereunder.

               4.   Eligibility.

               Awards may be granted to selected employees and independent
contractors of the Company and its present or future Subsidiaries and
Affiliates, in the discretion of the Committee. In determining the persons to
whom Awards shall be granted and the type of any Award (including the number of
shares to be covered by such Award), the Committee shall take into account such
factors as the Committee shall deem relevant in connection with accomplishing
the purposes of the Plan. Awards to Non-Employee Directors shall be solely in
the form of NQSOs and Restricted Stock, which shall be subject to the provisions
of Section 8 and 9 of the Plan, and in Deferred Stock Awards pursuant to Section
6(h)(v) of the Plan.

               5.   Stock Subject to the Plan.

               The maximum number of shares of Stock reserved for the grant of
Awards under the Plan shall be 14,700,000, subject to adjustment as provided
herein. Originally, 4,300,000 shares of Stock were reserved for the grant of
Awards under the Plan. After the July 1996 three-for-one stock split, this
increased to 12,900,000 and was further increased to 14,700,000 after amendments
to the Plan were approved by the Board on January 21, 2003 and by the
shareholders on April 17, 2003. In order to determine the number of shares of
Stock remaining available under the Plan after said stock split, each of the
following events occurring on or prior to the July 2, 1996 record date of the
stock split (or the July 23, 1996 distribution date in the case of Option
exercises) shall be deemed to involve three times the number of shares of Stock
that were actually involved: (x) grants, exercises and forfeitures of Options;
(y) grants, vesting and forfeitures of Restricted Stock (including performance
stock and Director's Restricted Stock); and (z) grants and forfeitures of
Deferred Stock Awards.

               The shares reserved for Awards under the Plan may, in whole or in
part, be authorized but unissued shares or shares that shall have been or may be
reacquired by the Company in the open market, in private transactions or
otherwise. If any shares subject to an Award are forfeited, canceled, exchanged
or surrendered or if an Award otherwise terminates or expires without a
distribution of shares to the Grantee, the shares of stock with respect to such
Award shall, to the extent of any such forfeiture, cancellation, exchange,
surrender, termination or expiration, again be available for Awards under the
Plan; provided that, in the case of forfeiture, cancellation, exchange or
surrender of shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units with respect
to which dividends or Dividend Equivalents have been paid or accrued, the number
of shares with respect to such Awards shall not be available for Awards
hereunder unless, in the case of shares with respect to which dividends or
Dividend Equivalents were accrued but unpaid, or in the case of shares with
respect to which a stock split in the form of a stock dividend was paid, such

                                                                               7

<PAGE>

dividends and Dividend Equivalents are also forfeited, canceled, exchanged or
surrendered. Upon the exercise of any Award granted in tandem with any other
Awards or Awards, such related Award or Awards shall be canceled to the extent
of the number of shares of Stock as to which the Award is exercised and,
notwithstanding the foregoing, such number of shares shall no longer be
available for Awards under the Plan.

               In the event that the Committee shall determine that any dividend
or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Stock, or other property),
recapitalization, Stock split, reverse split, reorganization, merger,
consolidation, spinoff, combination, repurchase, or share exchange, or other
similar corporate transaction or event, affects the Stock such that an
adjustment is appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the
rights of Grantees under the Plan, then the Committee shall make such equitable
changes or adjustments as it deems necessary or appropriate to any or all of (i)
the number and kind of shares of Stock which may thereafter be issued in
connection with Awards, (ii) the number and kind of shares of Stock issued or
issuable in respect of outstanding Awards, and (iii) the exercise price, grant
price, or purchase price relating to any Award; provided that, with respect to
ISOs, such adjustment shall be made in accordance with Section 424(h) of the
Code and; provided , further, that in the case of Awards under Sections 8 and 9,
equitable changes or adjustments of the types specified in clauses (i), (ii) and
(iii) above shall be made.

               6.   Specific Terms of Awards.

                    (a) General. The term of each Award shall be for such period
as may be determined by the Committee. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any
applicable Award Agreement, payments to be made by the Company or a Subsidiary
or Affiliate upon the grant, maturation, or exercise of an Award may be made in
such forms as the Committee shall determine at the date of grant or thereafter,
including, without limitation, cash, Stock, or other property, and may be made
in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis. The
Committee may make rules relating to installment or deferred payments with
respect to Awards, including the rate of interest to be credited with respect to
such payments. In addition to the foregoing, the Committee may impose on any
Award or the exercise thereof, at the date of grant or thereafter, such
additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the
Plan, as the Committee shall determine. The authority given to the Committee
under this Section 6 is, however, subject to Section 6A of this Plan in the case
of Awards to Officers as defined in Section 6A.

                    (b) Options. The Committee is authorized to grant Options to
Grantees on the following terms and conditions:

                         (i) Type of Award. The Award Agreement evidencing the
grant of an Option under the Plan shall designate the Option as an ISO or an
NQSO, provided that an ISO may not be granted to independent contractors or
Non-Employee Directors.

                         (ii) Exercise Price. The exercise price per share of
Stock purchasable under an Option shall be not less than the Fair Market Value
of a share on the date of the grant of such Option; provided that in no event
shall the exercise price for the purchase of shares be less than par value.
Notwithstanding anything else in this Plan to the contrary, once the exercise
price of any outstanding Option or in any Option granted in the future has been

                                                                               8

<PAGE>

determined, it may not be reduced except (i) in connection with antidilution and
other similar equitable adjustments approved by the Committee pursuant to the
last paragraph of Section 5 or (ii) with the consent of a majority of a quorum
of the stockholders of the Company. The exercise price for Stock subject to an
Option may be paid in cash or (if so permitted by the Committee or if so
provided in the Award Agreement) by an exchange of Stock previously owned by the
Grantee, or a combination of both, in an amount having a combined value equal to
such exercise price. A Grantee may also elect to pay all or a portion of the
aggregate exercise price by having shares of Stock with a Fair Market Value on
the date of exercise equal to the aggregate exercise price (i) withheld by the
Company, if so permitted by the Committee or so provided in the Award Agreement,
or (ii) sold by a broker-dealer under circumstances meeting the requirements of
12 C.F.R. ss.220 or any successor thereof.

                         (iii) Term and Exercisability of Options. The date on
which the Committee adopts a resolution expressly granting an Option shall be
considered the day on which such Option is granted, unless the Committee shall
determine that the Option shall be granted effective as of a specified date in
the future, in which case such specified future date shall be considered the day
on which such Option is granted. Options shall be exercisable over the exercise
period (which shall not exceed ten years from the date of grant), at such times
and upon such conditions as the Committee may determine, as reflected in the
Award Agreement; provided that, the Committee shall have the authority to
accelerate the exercisability of any outstanding Option at such time and under
such circumstances as it, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate. An Option
may be exercised to the extent of any or all full shares of Stock as to which
the Option has become exercisable, by giving written notice of such exercise to
the Committee or its designated agent.

                         (iv) Termination of Employment, etc. An Option may not
be exercised unless the Grantee is then in the employ of, or then maintains an
independent contractor relationship with, the Company or a Subsidiary or an
Affiliate (or a company or a parent or subsidiary company of such company
issuing or assuming the Option in a transaction to which Section 424(a) of the
Code applies), and unless the Grantee has remained continuously so employed, or
continuously maintained such relationship, since the date of grant of the Option
(or, in the case of a Grantee who on the date of grant was a "prospective
employee," since the date of first becoming an employee); provided that, the
Award Agreement may contain provisions extending the exercisability of Options
to a date not later than the expiration date of such Option.

                         (v) Maximum Number of Shares. Options may not be
granted hereunder to any one person in any ten-year period in an amount greater
than fifteen (15%) percent of the total number of shares of Stock originally
available for grant of Awards under this Plan (i.e. not more than 15% of
12,900,000 after giving effect to the stock split; and for purposes of
calculating this 15% figure, Options granted to any Grantee prior to July 23,
1996 shall be deemed to have been tripled).

                         (vi) Other Provisions. Options may be subject to such
other conditions including, but not limited to, restrictions on transferability
of the shares acquired upon exercise of such Options, as the Committee may
prescribe in its discretion.

                         (vii) Limitations on ISOs. No ISOs may be awarded under
this Plan after January 21, 2013. ISOs may be awarded only from 1,800,000 shares
of Stock reserved for issuance pursuant to this Plan after shareholder approval
of the amendment to the Plan in April 2003.

                                                                               9

<PAGE>

                    (c) SARs and Limited SARs. The Committee is authorized to
grant SARs and Limited SARs to Grantees on the following terms and conditions:

                         (i) In General. Unless the Committee determines
otherwise, an SAR or a Limited SAR (1) granted in tandem with an NQSO may be
granted at the time of grant of the related NQSO or at any time thereafter or
(2) granted in tandem with an ISO may only be granted at the time of grant of
the related ISO. An SAR or Limited SAR granted in tandem with an Option shall be
exercisable only to the extent the underlying Option is exercisable.

                         (ii) SARs. An SAR shall confer on the Grantee a right
to receive with respect to each share subject thereto, upon exercise thereof,
the excess of (1) the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date of
exercise over (2) the grant price of the SAR (which in the case of an SAR
granted in tandem with an Option shall be equal to the exercise price of the
underlying Option, and which in the case of any other SAR shall be such price as
the Committee may determine, but which may not be less than the fair market
value as of the date of grant).

                         (iii) Limited SARs. A Limited SAR shall confer on the
Grantee a right to receive with respect to each share subject thereto,
automatically upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, an amount equal to the
excess of (1) the Change in Control Price (or in the case of a Limited SAR
granted in tandem with an ISO, the Fair Market Value of one share on the date of
such Change in Control) over (2) the grant price of the Limited SAR (which in
the case of a Limited SAR granted in tandem with an Option shall be equal to the
exercise price of the underlying Option, and which in the case of any other
Limited SAR shall be such price as the Committee determines, but which may not
be less than the fair market value as of the date of grant).

                    (d) Restricted Stock. The Committee is authorized to grant
Restricted Stock (which may be designated as "performance stock") to Grantees on
the following terms and conditions:

                         (i) Issuance and Restrictions. Restricted Stock shall
be subject to such restrictions on transferability and other restrictions, if
any, as the Committee may impose at the date of grant or thereafter, which
restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such
circumstances, in such installments, or otherwise, as the Committee may
determine. Except to the extent restricted under the Award Agreement relating to
the Restricted Stock, a Grantee granted Restricted Stock shall have all of the
rights of a stockholder including, without limitation, the right to vote
Restricted Stock and the right to receive dividends thereon.

                         (ii) Forfeiture. Upon termination of employment or
termination of the independent contractor relationship during the applicable
restriction period, Restricted Stock and any accrued but unpaid dividends or
Dividend Equivalents that are at that time subject to restrictions shall be
forfeited; provided that, the Committee may provide, by rule or regulation or in
any Award Agreement, or may determine in any individual case, that restrictions
or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock will be waived in whole or
in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes, and the
Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part the forfeiture of
Restricted Stock.

                                                                              10

<PAGE>

                         (iii) Certificates for Stock. Restricted Stock granted
under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall determine.
If certificates representing Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the
Grantee, such certificates shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the
terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock, and/or
the Company shall retain physical possession of the certificate.

                         (iv) Dividends. Dividends paid on Restricted Stock
shall be either paid at the dividend payment date, or deferred for payment to
such date as determined by the Committee, in cash or in shares of unrestricted
Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such dividends. Stock
distributed in connection with a stock split or stock dividend, and other
property distributed as a dividend, shall be subject to restrictions and a risk
of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Stock with respect to which
such Stock or other property has been distributed.

                         (v) Maximum Issuance. No more than an aggregate of
250,000 shares of Stock may be awarded under this Plan after February 1, 2003
under Sections 6(d), 6(e), 6(f) and 6(i) of this Plan.

                    (e) Restricted Stock Units. The Committee is authorized to
grant Restricted Stock Units to Grantees, subject to the following terms and
conditions:

                         (i) Award and Restrictions. Delivery of Stock or cash,
as determined by the Committee, will occur upon expiration of the deferral
period specified for Restricted Stock Units by the Committee. In addition,
Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee
may impose, at the date of grant or thereafter, which restrictions may lapse at
the expiration of the deferral period or at earlier or later specified times,
separately or in combination, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may
determine.

                         (ii) Forfeiture. Upon termination of employment or
termination of the independent contractor relationship during the applicable
deferral period or portion thereof to which forfeiture conditions apply, or upon
failure to satisfy any other conditions precedent to the delivery of Stock or
cash to which such Restricted Stock Units relate, all Restricted Stock Units
that are then subject to deferral or restriction shall be forfeited; provided
that, the Committee may provide, by rule or regulation or in any Award
Agreement, or may determine in any individual case, that restrictions or
forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Stock Units will be waived in whole
or in part in the event of termination resulting from specified causes, and the
Committee may in other cases waive in whole or in part the forfeiture of
Restricted Stock Units.

                         (iii) Maximum Issuance. No more than an aggregate of
250,000 shares of Stock may be awarded under this Plan after February 1, 2003
under Sections 6(d), 6(e), 6(f) and 6(i) of this Plan.


                    (f) Stock Awards in Lieu of Cash Awards. The Committee is
authorized to grant Stock as a bonus, or to grant other Awards, in lieu of
Company commitments to pay cash under other plans or compensatory arrangements.
Stock or Awards granted hereunder shall have such other terms as shall be
determined by the Committee. No more than an aggregate of 250,000 shares of
Stock may be awarded under this Plan after February 1, 2003 under Sections 6(d),
6(e), 6(f) and 6(i) of this Plan.

                                                                              11

<PAGE>

                    (g) Dividend Equivalents and Interest Equivalents. The
Committee is authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents and Interest Equivalents
to Grantees.

                         (i) The Committee may provide, at the date of grant or
thereafter, that Dividend Equivalents and/or Interest Equivalents shall be paid
or distributed when accrued or shall be deemed to have been reinvested in
additional Stock or deferred cash, as the case may be, or other investment
vehicles as the Committee may specify, provided that Dividend Equivalents or
Interest Equivalents (other than freestanding Dividend Equivalents or Interest
Equivalents) shall be subject to all conditions and restrictions of the
underlying Awards to which they relate.

                         (ii) Interest Equivalents shall be computed at a
market-based rate which, unless the Committee otherwise determines, shall be
compounded quarterly at an annual rate equal to the annual rate on the last day
of the calendar quarter of 10-year U.S. Treasury Notes plus 1% per annum.

                    (h) Deferred Stock Awards and Deferred Cash Awards. The
Committee is authorized to grant Deferred Stock Awards and Deferred Cash Awards,
including, but not limited to, Deferred Stock Awards in lieu of directors
retainer fees, subject to the following terms and conditions:

                         (i) The Committee shall establish, in the name of each
Grantee receiving a Deferred Stock Award, a Common Stock Account to which the
Deferred Stock Award, and any Dividend Equivalents thereon (unless paid
currently in the discretion of the Committee), will be credited. The Company
shall not be under any obligation to acquire the Stock to pay a Deferred Stock
Award (or Dividend Equivalent) at any time prior to the date on which such
payment shall be due. The Committee shall establish, in the name of each Grantee
receiving a Deferred Cash Award, a Deferred Cash Account to which the Deferred
Cash Award, and any Interest Equivalents thereon (unless paid currently in the
discretion of the Committee), will be credited.

                         (ii) The number of equivalent shares of Stock credited
to a Common Stock Account shall accrue Dividend Equivalents on such shares, as
if actual shares of Stock had been issued, from the date the Deferred Stock is
credited to the Common Stock Account to and including the date on which the
amount credited to the Common Stock Account is deemed to have been paid. Such
Dividend Equivalents will be credited to the Common Stock Account as additional
equivalent shares of Stock. In the case of a stock dividend, the number of
shares to be credited shall be the number of shares of stock that would have
been issued on the equivalent number of shares of Stock in the Common Stock
Account. In other cases, the number of equivalent shares (including fractional
shares) to be so credited will be determined by dividing the Dividend
Equivalents by the Fair Market Value of the Stock for the day on which the
related dividend is paid. If any dividend is paid on the Stock of the Company,
other than in cash or Stock, the Committee shall conclusively determine the Fair
Market Value in cash of such dividend.

                                                                              12

<PAGE>

                         (iii) The amount of Deferred Cash credited to a
Deferred Cash Account shall accrue Interest Equivalents from the date the
Deferred Cash is credited to the Deferred Cash Account to and including the date
on which the amount credited to the Deferred Cash Account is deemed to have been
paid. Such Interest Equivalents will be credited to the Deferred Cash Account as
additional cash which shall, in turn, accrue further Interest Equivalents.
Interest Equivalents will be credited, as of the last day of each calendar
quarter on the average daily balance of deferred cash in said account during
said quarter. If any Deferred Cash is disbursed to a Grantee or a Beneficiary on
a date other than the last day of a calendar quarter, Interest Equivalents
(properly prorated for the partial quarter) shall be credited on the Deferred
Cash so disbursed for the partial calendar quarter, but shall be computed based
on the interest rate in effect on the business day next preceding the date of
disbursement.

                         (iv) Payments from Common Stock and Deferred Cash
Accounts.

                              A(1). Except as provided below, for Awards granted
on or before December 31, 2004, payment of the total amount credited to a
Grantee's Common Stock Account or Deferred Cash Account, as the case may be,
shall be made to him, or, in case of his death prior to the commencement of
payments on account of such total amount, to his Beneficiary, at the Grantee's
election made in accordance with the last two sentences of this paragraph (i) in
sixty (60) quarterly installments or (ii) in five annual installments or (iii)
in a single lump sum, commencing the first day of the calendar quarter, or as
soon thereafter as practicable, following the date on which he ceases, by reason
of death or otherwise, to be an employee or a director. The amount of each
payment shall be the amount credited to such account multiplied by a factor, the
numerator of which is one (1) and the denominator of which is the number of
installments remaining to be paid. If the aggregate number of shares credited to
a Common Stock Account shall not be divisible into whole shares by the
applicable number of installments, each installment except the last shall
consist of the nearest number of whole shares into which such aggregate number
of shares shall be divisible by the applicable number of installments. The last
installment shall consist of the total amount of whole shares of remaining
Deferred Stock credited to such account and any fractional share shall be paid
in cash. The Secretary to the Committee shall solicit an installment election
from each recipient of a Deferred Stock Award or a Deferred Cash Award who is
not yet receiving distributions under this Section 6(h)(iv) by December 1, 2003.
Persons who receive their first Deferred Stock or Deferred Cash Award after that
date shall make an installment election within the thirty day period after they
first receive such an Award. Any recipient of such an Award may change his
installment election up until the twelve month period preceding the date of his
termination or retirement as an employee or director. Changes made during the
twelve month period preceding termination or retirement will be ignored.

                              A(2).



                                                                              13

<PAGE>

Except as provided below, for Awards granted on or after January 1, 2005,
payment of the total amount credited to a Grantee's Common Stock Account or
Deferred Cash Account, as the case may be, shall be made to him, or, in case of
his death prior to the commencement of payments on account of such total amount,
to his Beneficiary, at the Grantee's election made in accordance with the terms
of this paragraph (i) in a single lump sum payment, (ii) in five (5) annual
installments, (iii) in ten (10) annual installments and (iv) in fifteen (15)
annual installments, commencing the first day of the seventh (7th) calendar
month, or as soon thereafter as practicable, following the date on which he
ceases, by reason of death or otherwise, to be an employee or a director. The
amount of each payment shall be the amount credited to such account multiplied
by a factor, the numerator of which is one (1) and the denominator of which is
the number of installments remaining to be paid. If the aggregate number of
shares credited to a Common Stock Account shall not be divisible into whole
shares by the applicable number of installments, each installment except the
last shall consist of the nearest number of whole shares into which such
aggregate number of shares shall be divisible by the applicable number of
installments. The last installment shall consist of the total amount of whole
shares of remaining Deferred Stock credited to such account and any fractional
share shall be paid in cash. Persons who receive their first Deferred Stock or
Deferred Cash Award shall make a one time payment election prior to the receipt
of such Award and this payment election shall apply to all future Deferred Stock
and Cash Awards under the Plan. If the Grantee fails to make a payment election,
the respective Award will be paid in five (5) annual installments. Any recipient
of such an Award may change his payment election up until the day that is six
(6) months before the date of his termination or retirement as an employee or
director, provided however, any change in installment payment will result in the
commencement date of the payments being delayed for a period of five (5) years.
Any changes made during the six (6) month period preceding termination or
retirement will be ignored

                              B. In case of the death of an employee after the
commencement of payments to him in respect of his Common Stock Account or
Deferred Cash Account, as the case may be, the then remaining unpaid portion
thereof shall continue to be paid in installments, at such times and in such
manner as if he were living, to his Beneficiary.

                              C. For Awards granted on or before December 31,
2004, with respect to the total amount in a Common Stock Account or Deferred
Cash Account, as the case may be, or the then remaining unpaid portion thereof,
which shall be payable to any person who shall no longer be an employee of the
Company or one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or to the Beneficiary of any
such person, the Committee shall possess absolute discretion to accelerate the
time of payment of such total amount or remaining unpaid portion, in whole or in
part, as the case may be. In addition and for Awards granted on or before
December 31, 2004, the Committee shall possess absolute discretion to accelerate
to any extent such total amount or remaining unpaid portion, even while a person
remains an employee, if there occurs financial hardship or any other event which
the Committee deems, in its absolute discretion, to constitute an extraordinary
circumstance. As it relates to Awards granted on or after January 1, 2005, the
Committee shall possess absolute discretion to accelerate to any extent such
total amount or remaining unpaid portion, even while a person remains an
employee, only if there occurs an Unforeseeable Financial Emergency.

                         (v) By notice to the Committee at least 15 days in
advance of the commencement of any calendar period with respect to which
directors' retainer fees are paid, as long as the Committee approves such

                                                                              14

<PAGE>

election at its next regularly scheduled meeting, any Non-Employee Director of
the Company may elect to receive Deferred Stock Awards in lieu of retainer fees
for serving on the Board. The amount of each such Deferred Stock Award shall be
determined by dividing the amount of the fee that would have been paid but for
the election by such director to receive a Deferred Stock Award by the Fair
Market Value of a share of Stock on the last day of the period with respect to
which such retainer would have been paid and rounding the result to the nearest
whole share. Any election by a director pursuant to this provision shall remain
in place until the commencement of the annual retainer period after such
director gives notice to the Committee that he or she elects to receive future
retainer fees in cash.

                         (i) Other Stock- or Cash-Based Awards. The Committee is
authorized to grant to Grantees Other Stock-Based Awards or Other Cash-Based
Awards as an element of or supplement to any other Award under the Plan or in
addition to, or in lieu of, any other Award under the Plan, as deemed by the
Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Such Awards may be
granted with value and payment contingent upon performance of the Company or any
other factors designated by the Committee, or valued by reference to the
performance of specified Subsidiaries or Affiliates. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, other Cash Based Awards may be granted as annual
bonus, as multi-year performance cash awards, or otherwise. The Committee shall
determine the terms and conditions of such Awards at the date of grant or
thereafter. No more than an aggregate of 250,000 shares of Stock may be awarded
under this Plan after February 1, 2003 under Sections 6(d), 6(e), 6(f) and 6(i)
of this Plan.


               6A.  Special Restrictions on Awards to Officers.

Subject to Sections 6A(h) and 6A(j), this Section 6A applies to all Awards to
"Officers"; provided that this Section 6A applies to Options, SARs and Limited
SARs only to the extent specifically stated in this Section. For purposes of
this Section 6A, an "Officer" is any employee who would be treated at the time
an Award is granted as an officer of the Company pursuant to the executive
compensation disclosure rules under the Exchange Act. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the provisions of the Plan disregarded under Section 6A(a) below
shall be reinstated and fully applicable to all Awards granted to Officers
pursuant to this Section 6A to the extent that, as of the end of the calendar
year following the year in which the Award is granted, they are not "covered
employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.

                         (a) Intent. Awards subject to this Section 6A are
intended to qualify as performance-based compensation as described in Section
162(m)(4)(C) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder. This
Section 6A shall be interpreted consistently with such intent and any provisions
of the Plan inconsistent therewith shall not apply to any Awards subject to this
Section 6A. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee
shall have no discretion to increase the value of any Awards subject to this
Section 6A. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Awards granted hereunder shall be
subject to such other provisions of the Plan (as modified by this Section 6A) as
may be determined by the Committee.

                         (b) Maximum Awards. The maximum Awards (other than
Options, SARs and Limited SARs) that may be granted to any Officer pursuant to
this Section 6A on account of any calendar year shall not exceed the greater of
(i) five hundred percent (500%) of the Officer's base salary for that year or

                                                                              15

<PAGE>

(ii) $5,000,000. Awards shall be considered to be on account of the calendar
year in which the relevant performance periods terminate. Awards granted
pursuant to Section 6A(h) shall not be taken into account in applying the
foregoing limit. The maximum number of shares of Stock subject to an Option, SAR
or Limited SAR that may be granted hereunder to an Officer during any ten-year
period is set forth in Section 6(b)(v).

                         (c) Designation of Performance Goals. The Committee
shall establish specific objective targets, schedules, thresholds or goals
("Performance Goals") for each Award subject to this Section 6A; provided that,
at the time of the grant of any Award, the achievement of the Performance Goal
shall be substantially uncertain. The Performance Goals designated by the
Committee shall be determined based upon one or more of the business criteria
set forth in Exhibit A hereto ("Performance Measures"). To the extent
applicable, the Committee may specify a Performance Measure in relation to total
Company performance or in relation to the performance of identifiable business
unit(s) of the Company. A Performance Goal may be expressed in any form as the
Committee may determine including, but not limited to: (1) percentage growth,
(2) absolute growth, (3) cumulative growth, (4) performance in relation to an
index, (5) performance in relation to peer company performance, (6) a designated
absolute amount and (7) per share of Stock outstanding. The Performance Goals so
established may exclude the effects of certain events or categories of events
specifically identified by the Committee. Nothing shall preclude the Committee
from designating different Performance Measures and Performance Goals for Awards
granted to different Officers in the same performance period.

                         (d) Determination of Awards. The Committee shall have
discretion to structure the types of Awards granted to Officers. Such Awards may
be either Awards having a performance period of one year or less (such as, for
example, an annual bonus plan providing for a cash or a Stock bonus) or Awards
which vest over longer periods (such as, for example, a Performance Stock Award
or Performance Cash Award which might vest after a period of two or more years).
No later than 90 days after the commencement of a performance period (but, in
any event, within the first 25% of such performance period, if earlier), the
Committee shall designate or approve as to the Awards relating to such period,
(i) the Officers who will be Grantees, if any, (ii) the types of Awards (which
will be selected from the types of Awards permitted under Section 6), (iii) the
Performance Measures applicable to each Award, (iv) if there is more than one
Performance Measure applicable to a single Award, the weighting, or other role,
of the Performance Measures in determining the Award, (v) the Performance Goals
and payout matrix or formula for each Performance Measure, (vi) the performance
period or periods, (vii) the target Award or Awards for each Grantee, (viii) the
extent to which, and the circumstances under which, the Award may pay out at
greater than, or less than, target levels, and (ix) to the extent required under
Code Section 162(m), the maximum dollar amount a Grantee may earn with respect
to a performance period.

                         (e) Payment of Awards. Subject to Section 7 of the Plan
("Change in Control Provisions"), an Award subject to this Section 6A shall vest
only to the extent that the applicable Performance Goal or Goals, if any, have
been attained. As a condition to the vesting of any Award, the Committee shall
first certify, by resolution of the Committee, that the applicable Performance
Goal or Goals have been attained and the other applicable Plan provisions have
been satisfied. Following the end of a performance period, the Committee shall
determine the amount of each Award that vests for each Grantee by:

                         (1) comparing actual performance for each Performance
                    Measure against the payout matrix approved for such period,

                                                                              16

<PAGE>
                         (2) multiplying the payout percentage from the payout
                    matrix for each Performance Measure by the appropriate
                    weighting factor, if applicable, and

                         (3) summing the applicable weighted payout percentages
                    and multiplying their overall payout percentage by the
                    Grantee's Award

Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan to the contrary (but provided
that the right to do so is specifically retained in the applicable Award
Agreement), the Committee in its sole discretion may reduce any Award to any
Grantee to any amount, including zero, prior to the certification by resolution
of the Committee of the amount of such Award. The amount of an Award that vests
for a calendar year or other performance period shall be determined as soon as
practicable after such period and shall be paid no later than 75 days following
the end of such year or other period.

                         (f) Grants of Options and SARs. The Committee may grant
Options, SARs and Limited SARs the vesting of which is not contingent upon the
attainment of any Performance Goal or Goals. Except as provided in Section
6A(h), but subject to Section 6(b)(ii), the exercise or grant price, as
applicable, of each share of Stock subject to such Options, SARs and Limited
SARs shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the
date of grant.

                         (g) Deferred Payments. The Committee, in its
discretion, may elect to defer payment of any Award until such date before or
after retirement as a Grantee may request upon such terms and conditions as may
be approved or established by the Committee in its sole judgment. Such terms may
include the payment of Interest or Dividend Equivalents on deferred amounts. For
Awards granted on or after January 1, 2005, the deferral requested by the
Grantee must be made in compliance with the provisions of 409A of the Code.

                         (h) Non-Performance-Based Compensation. Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Section 6A, the Committee may grant Awards to
Officers that are not subject to this Section 6A. All Awards granted by the
Committee shall indicate whether or not they are subject to this Section 6A.

                         (i) Valuation. Whenever in this Section 6A there is a
reference to a maximum dollar value of a stock-based Award (including but not
limited to a Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, a Deferred Stock Award or
other Stock-Based Award), the dollar value is determined as of the date of the
grant of the Award and not as of the date of vesting. If one type of Award is
substituted for another (such as, for example, a Deferred Stock Award being
substituted for a Restricted Stock Award or for an Award of Restricted Stock
Units, where each Award is based upon the same number of shares of Common
Stock), the value of the substitute Award for this purpose is the same as the
Award for which it is substituted. Whenever in this Section 6A there is a
reference to a maximum dollar value of an Award, Dividend Equivalents and
Interest Equivalents (other than free-standing Dividend Equivalents and Interest
Equivalents) shall not be counted in determining such maximum amount.

                         (j) Grant-by-Grant Determination. The Committee may
grant Awards a portion of which satisfy the provisions of this Section 6A and a
portion of which do not. In such a case, the Award shall be deemed to be the
grant of two Awards, one subject to this Section 6A and the other granted
pursuant to Section 6A(h).

                                                                              17

<PAGE>

                         (k) Substitute Awards. The Committee may establish
procedures under which one Award is substituted for an equivalent Award of a
different type; such as a Deferred Stock Award being substituted for an Award of
an equivalent number of shares of Restricted Stock. Nothing contained in this
Section 6A requires the substitute Award to be subject to Performance Goals in
addition to the Performance Goals of the Award for which it was substituted.

               7.   Change in Control Provisions. In the event of a Change of
Control:


                    (a) any Award carrying a right to exercise that was not
previously exercisable and vested shall become fully exercisable and vested; and

                    (b) the restrictions, deferral limitations, payment
conditions, and forfeiture conditions applicable to any other Award granted
under the Plan shall lapse and such Awards shall be deemed fully vested, and any
performance conditions imposed with respect to Awards shall be deemed to be
fully achieved.

               8. Non-Employee Director Options. Notwithstanding any of the
other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, the provisions of this Section 8
shall apply only to grants of Options to Non-Employee Directors. Except as set
forth in this Section 8, the other provisions of the Plan shall apply to grants
of Options to Non-Employee Directors to the extent not inconsistent with this
Section.

                    (a) General. Non-Employee Directors shall receive NQSOs in
accordance with this Section 8 and may not be granted Stock Appreciation Rights
or Incentive Stock Options under this Plan. The purchase price per share of
Stock purchasable under Options granted to Non-Employee Directors shall be the
Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant. No Agreement with any
Non-Employee Director may alter the provisions of this Section and no Option
granted to a Non-Employee Director may be subject to a discretionary
acceleration of exercisability.

                    (b) Grants to New Non-Employee Directors. Each Non- Employee
Director who is elected to the Board, on or before January 1, 2006, for the
first time will, at the time such director is elected and duly qualified, be
granted automatically, without action by the Committee, an Option to purchase
(i) for Options granted prior to July 23, 1996, 1,500 shares of Stock and (ii)
for Options granted on or after July 23, 1996, 4,500 shares of stock.

                    (c) Grants to Continuing Directors. On the date of each
annual meeting of stockholders (in addition to any grant made under subsection
(b) of this Section on such date) prior to January 1, 2006, each continuing
Non-Employee Director will be granted automatically, without action by the
Committee, an Option to purchase (i) for Options granted prior to July 23, 1996,
1,500 shares of Stock and (ii) for Options granted on or after July 23, 1996,
4,500 shares of stock.

                    (d) Vesting. As it relates to Options granted on or before
January 1, 2006, each Option shall be exercisable as to 33-1/3 percent of the
Stock covered by the Option on the first anniversary of the date the Option is
granted and as to an additional 33-1/3 percent of the Stock covered by the
Option on each of the following two anniversaries of such date of grant;

                                                                              18

<PAGE>

provided, however, that each Option shall be immediately exercisable in full
upon a Change in Control. To the extent not exercised, installments shall
accumulate and be exercisable, in whole or in part, at any time after becoming
exercisable, but not later than the date the Option expires. Section 6(b) hereof
shall not apply to Options granted to Non-Employee Directors.


                    (e) Duration. Subject to the three clauses below, each
Option granted to a Non-Employee Director shall be for a term of 10 years. The
Committee may not provide for an extended exercise period beyond the periods set
forth in this Section 8(e).


                         (i) Options granted to any Non-Employee Director prior
to April 11, 2002 shall expire upon the cessation of such Non-Employee
Director's membership on the Board for any reason, except that, as to any
portion of such an Option which shall be exercisable upon the date of such
cessation, such Option may be exercised as to such portion until the earlier of
(i) three years from the date of such cessation of Board membership or (ii)
expiration of the term of such Option.

                         (ii) Except as set forth in Section 8(e)(iii) below,
Options granted to any Non-Employee Director on or after April 11, 2002 and
prior to January 1, 2006 shall expire upon the cessation of such Non-Employee
Director's membership on the Board for any reason, except that, as to any
portion of such an Option which shall be exercisable upon the date of such
cessation, such Option may be exercised as to such portion until the earlier of
(i) one year from the date of such cessation of Board membership or (ii)
expiration of the term of such Option.

                         (iii) Upon the cessation of a Non-Employee Director's
membership on the Board as a result of the Non-Employee Director's death or
disability or if such cessation occurs after the Non-Employee Director has
served on the Board for five years or more, Options granted to such Non-Employee
Director on or after April 11, 2002 and prior to January 1, 2006 and at least
eight months prior to such cessation shall be exercisable by such director (or
by any person who acquires the right to exercise such option as a result of such
director's death) until the earlier of (i) five years from the date of such
cessation of Board membership (subject to the installment vesting provisions of
Section 8(d) above) or (ii) expiration of the term of such Option, to the extent
of the total number of shares subject to the grant.

                    (f) Options Granted on or after January 1, 2006. All Options
granted on or after January 1, 2006, to non-Employee Directors shall be for such
amounts and subject to such terms as shall be determined by the Board or the
Committee, to the extent such authority is delegated to the Committee by the
Board.


               9. Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock. Notwithstanding any of
the other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, the provisions of this Section
9 shall apply only to grants of Restricted Stock to Non-Employee Directors
("Director's Restricted Stock"). Except as set forth in this Section 9, the
other provisions of the Plan shall apply to grants of Director's Restricted
Stock, to the extent not inconsistent with this Section.

                                                                              19

<PAGE>

               (a) General. Non-Employee Directors will receive Director's
Restricted Stock in accordance with this Section. No agreement with any
Non-Employee Director may alter the provisions of this Section and no Director's
Restricted Stock may be subject to a discretionary acceleration of vesting. Each
person who was a Non-Employee Director prior to the 1994 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders was granted 2,500 shares of Director's Restricted Stock (equivalent
to 7,500 shares on or after July 23, 1996).

               (b) Grants to New Non-Employee Directors. (i) Each Non-Employee
Director who, on or after the 1994 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and prior to
January 1, 2006, was elected to the Board for the first time, was, at the time
such Director was duly elected and qualified, granted automatically, without
action by the Committee, a number of shares of Director's Restricted Stock equal
to the lesser of (x) 2,500 shares (7,500 shares on or after July 23, 1996) or
(y) the nearest number of whole shares determined by multiplying 2,500 (7,500 on
or after July 23, 1996) by a fraction, the numerator of which is the initial
Fair Market Value of the Stock determined under the formula utilized for initial
grants of NQSQs to Non-Employee Directors in February 1994 (such initial Fair
Market Value being $15.375 per share or, on or after July 23, 1996, $5.125 per
share), and the denominator of which is the Fair Market Value of the Stock on
the date on which such Director is duly elected and qualified.

               (c) Grants to Non-Employee Directors on or after January1, 2006.
All grants of Restricted Stock after December 31, 2005 to non-Employee Directors
shall be for such amounts and subject to such terms as shall be determined by
the Board or the Committee, to the extent such authority is delegated to the
Committee by the Board.


               (d) Vesting. (i) For Awards granted on or before December 31,
2005, each Award of Director's Restricted Stock shall become non-forfeitable as
to twenty percent of the Stock covered by the Award on the first anniversary
date of the Award and as to an additional twenty percent of the Stock on each of
the following four anniversary dates of the Award; provided that each Award
shall be immediately non-forfeitable in full upon a Change in Control. If a
Non-Employee Director's service on the Board terminates prior to the Award
becoming entirely non-forfeitable, any portion of the Award which then remains
forfeitable shall revert to the Company, except that if the Non-Employee
Director's service terminates by reason of death or disability, any 20 percent
installment with respect to which such Non-Employee Director shall have begun
(but not completed) the requisite annual service shall become, as to such
installment, also entirely nonforfeitable. As used in the prior sentence, a
"disability" shall exist if, because of sickness or injury, the ability of the
Non-Employee Director to perform the duties of a member of the Board of
Directors becomes significantly impaired.

          (ii) A Non-Employee Director may, on or prior to December 31, 1995 (or
in the case of a Non-Employee Director who first becomes a Director after
December 31, 1995, within thirty days after becoming a Director), as to his
forfeitable shares of Director's Restricted Stock elect that such shares shall
become nonforfeitable on January 1 following the year in which he attains his
70th birthday, but not earlier than the date upon which such shares become
nonforfeitable under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph (d) or later than the
date of a Change in Control. During such additional period, if any, that such
shares are forfeitable under this subparagraph (ii), the shares shall be
forfeited if such Non-Employee Director resigns from the Board of Directors or
refuses to stand for re-election to the Board of Directors, unless:

                                                                              20

<PAGE>

          A.   Such resignation or refusal results from the disability (as
defined in subparagraph (i) above) or death of the Non-Employee Director; or

          B.   Such Non-Employee Director furnishes to the Board of Directors an
opinion of counsel, reasonably satisfactory to a majority of the remaining
members, to the effect that continued membership on the Board will result in
such Non-Employee Director having a conflict of interest or suffering some other
significant legal liability; or

          C.   Such resignation or refusal is approved or requested by a
majority of the remaining members of the Board of Directors or by stockholders
owning a majority of the voting stock of the Company.

          During such additional period, if any, that such shares are
forfeitable under this subparagraph (ii), if there occurs an event described in
clause A., B. or C. of this subparagraph, the shares shall become nonforfeitable
on the date that the Non-Employee Director ceases to be a member of the Board of
Directors.

          Any such election to defer vesting shall be made in writing addressed
to the Secretary of the Committee, and shall be irrevocable when received.

               (e) Dividends; Voting. Except as set forth in this Section 9, a
Director granted Director's Restricted Stock shall have all of the rights of a
stockholder including, without limitation, the right to vote Restricted Stock
and the right to receive dividends thereon.

               (f) The Director's Restricted Stock shall be subject to the
following provisions prior to becoming non-forfeitable:

                    (i) The Stock may not be sold, assigned, transferred,
pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of; and neither the right to receive
Stock nor any interest therein under the Plan may be assigned, and any attempted
assignment shall be void.

                    (ii) The Stock certificates shall, at the option of the
Company, either (x) be held by the Company together with stock powers endorsed
by the Director in blank or (y) bear an appropriate restrictive legend and be
subject to appropriate "stop transfer" orders or (z) both.

                    (iii) Any additional Stock or other securities or property
(other than cash dividends) that may be issued with respect to Director's Stock
as a result of any stock dividend, stock split, reorganization,
recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination of shares or
other event, shall be subject to the restrictions and other terms and conditions
of the Plan.

               10.  General Provisions.

               (a) Compliance with Local and Exchange Requirements. The Plan,
the granting and exercising of Awards, and the other obligations of the Company
under the Plan and any Award Agreement, promissory note or other agreement shall
be subject to all applicable federal, state and foreign laws, rules and
regulations, and to such approvals by any regulatory or governmental agency as
may be required. The Company, in its discretion, may postpone the issuance or

                                                                              21

<PAGE>

delivery of Stock under any Award until completion of such stock exchange
listing or registration or qualification of such Stock or other required action
under any state, federal or foreign law, rule or regulation as the Company may
consider appropriate, and may require any Grantee to make such representations
and furnish such information as it may consider appropriate in connection with
the issuance or delivery of Stock in compliance with applicable laws, rules and
regulations.

               (b) Nontransferability. Except as may be specifically provided to
the contrary in any Award Agreement, Awards shall not be transferable by a
Grantee except by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a
qualified domestic relations order as defined under the Code or Title I of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or the rules
thereunder, and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of a Grantee only by
such Grantee or his guardian or legal representative.

               (c) No Right to Continued Employment, etc.. Nothing in the Plan
or in any Award granted or any Award Agreement, or other agreement entered into
pursuant hereto shall confer upon any Grantee the right to continue in the
employ of or to continue as an independent contractor, or director of the
Company, any subsidiary or any Affiliate or to be entitled to any remuneration
or benefits not set forth in the Plan or such Award Agreement, or other
agreement or to interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or
any such Subsidiary or Affiliate or the stockholders to terminate such Grantee's
employment, directorship or independent contractor relationship.

               (d) Taxes. The Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate is
authorized to withhold from any Award granted, any payment relating to an Award
under the Plan, including from a distribution of Stock, or any other payment to
a Grantee, amounts of withholding and other taxes due in connection with any
transaction involving an Award, and to take such other actions as the Committee
may deem advisable to enable the Company and Grantees to satisfy obligations for
the payment of withholding taxes and other tax obligations relating to any
Award. This authority shall include authority to withhold or receive Stock or
other property and to make cash payments in respect thereof in satisfaction of a
Grantee's tax obligations.

               (e) Amendment and Termination of the Plan. The Board may at any
time and from time to time alter, amend, suspend, or terminate the Plan in whole
or in part; provided that, without stockholder approval, no amendment shall be
made (i) to change Section 4 of the Plan which defines the persons eligible to
receive Awards, (ii) to increase the number of shares available for issuance
pursuant to the Plan (other than pursuant to the anti-dilution provisions set
forth in Section 5 of the Plan), (iii) to increase the number of shares issuable
under Sections 6(d), 6(e), 6(f) and 6(i) of the Plan, (iv) to change the
provisions limiting repricing of options in Section 6(b)(ii) of the Plan, (v) to
extend the 10 year maximum term of Options issued under the Plan set forth in
Section 6(b)(iii) of the Plan, (vi) to create additional kinds of awards under
the Plan not already contemplated by the Plan or (vii) to change this Section
10(e). Additionally, no amendment shall affect adversely any of the rights of
any Grantee, without such Grantee's consent, under any Award theretofore granted
under the Plan. Nothing in this Section 10(e) shall limit the provisions of
Section 10(i) of the Plan.

               (f) No Rights to Awards; No Stockholder Rights. No Grantee shall
have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no

                                                                              22

<PAGE>

obligation for uniformity of treatment of Grantees. Except as provided
specifically herein, a Grantee or a transferee of an Award shall have no rights
as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by the Award until the date
of the issuance of a stock certificate to him for such shares.

               (g) Unfunded Status of Awards. The Plan is intended to constitute
an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any
payments not yet made to a Grantee pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in
the Plan or any Award shall give any such Grantee any rights that are greater
than those of a general creditor of the Company.

               (h) No Fractional Shares. No fractional shares of Stock shall be
issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall
determine whether cash, other Awards, or other property shall be issued or paid
in lieu of such fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any
rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.

               (i) Not Exclusive. The Awards granted under this Plan are not
intended to be exclusive and, accordingly, the Board may adopt, or permit the
adoption of, other compensation and/or benefit plans or arrangements of any type
whatsoever, including but not limited to plans or arrangements that provide for
compensation in the same form as, or in form similar or dissimilar to, types of
compensation available under this Plan.

               (j) Governing Law. The Plan and all determinations made and
actions taken pursuant hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Delaware without giving effect to the conflict of laws principles thereof.

               (k) Effective Date; Plan Termination. The Plan has been approved
by stockholders. Amendments to the Plan effected at the January 21, 2003 meeting
of the Board shall take effect upon their adoption by the Board (the "Effective
Date"), but the amendments to this Plan (and any Awards made on or after such
date and prior to the stockholder approval mentioned herein), shall be subject
to the approval of such amendments by a majority of the votes cast on the
proposal seeking such approval, provided that the total vote cast on the
proposal represents over 50% in interest of all securities entitled to vote on
the proposal, which approval must occur within twelve months of the Effective
Date; provided that Awards which could have been made under the Plan as
previously in effect shall not be affected by the lack of stockholder approval
of the amendments. In the absence of such approval, except as so provided above,
such Awards shall be null and void.



                                                                              23

<PAGE>

                EXHIBIT A TO 1993 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN,
                           AS AMENDED JANUARY 27, 1997
                              PERFORMANCE MEASURES

     (i) "Cash Flow" shall mean the consolidated increase (reduced by any
decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and related marketable securities of the
Company, as set forth in the Company's audited financial statements for a year
or other period, adjusted to offset the effects of financing activity, cash
dividends to common stockholders and purchases of treasury stock.

     (ii) "Debt to Capital Ratio" shall mean Debt divided by Capital. "Debt"
shall mean the sum of short term debt, the current portion of long term debt and
long term debt, all as reported in or determined from a balance sheet at the end
of a year or other period. "Capital" shall mean the sum of (i) short term debt,
(ii) long term debt, (iii) current portion of long term debt, (iv) total
minority interest and (v) stockholders' equity, all as reported in or determined
from a balance sheet at the end of a year or other period.

     (iii) "EBIT" shall mean, (i) in the case of the Company, the consolidated
earnings before interest and taxes of the Company as set forth in Company's
audited financial statements for such year or other period or (ii) in the case
of a business unit of the Company, the earnings before interest and taxes of
such business unit, for such year or other period, determined on a basis
consistent with the accounting principles used in determining EBIT in the
Company's audited financial statements.

     (iv) "EPS" shall mean the consolidated fully-diluted earnings per share of
the Company, as set forth in the Company's audited financial statements for such
year or other period.

     (v) "EVA" shall mean economic value added, calculated as NOPAT less a
capital charge as follows: the weighted average cost per dollar of Capital for
the year or other period times the amount of Capital invested. "NOPAT" shall
mean net Operating Profit after tax plus equity in net earnings of associated
companies, as set forth in the Company's financial statements for such year or
other period.

     (vi) "Market Value" shall mean the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock,
as determined under clause (i), (ii) or (iii) as applicable, of the second
sentence of Section 2(q) of the Plan.

     (vii) "Net Earnings" shall mean the consolidated net earnings available to
common stockholders, as set forth in the Company's financial statements for such
year or other period.

     (viii) "Operating Profit" shall mean operating profit before any special
charges or gains as reported in a statement of income or statement of operations
for a year or other period.

     (ix) "Return on Capital" shall mean NOPAT divided by average Capital for
the year or other period.

                                                                              24

<PAGE>

     (x) "Return on Equity" shall mean either Net Earnings or Cash Flow, as
designated by the Committee, divided by average Stockholders' Equity for the
year or other period.

     (xi) "RONA" shall mean the return on net assets for a year or other period,
which is calculated as (i) Net Earnings minus financing charges divided by (ii)
net assets. Net assets means total assets minus nonfinancial liabilities.

     (xii) "Sales" shall mean net sales as reported in a statement of income or
statement of operations for a year or other period.

     (xiii) "SG & A" shall mean selling, general and administrative costs as
reported in a statement of income or statement of operations for a year or other
period.

     (xiv) "Tax Rate" shall mean the Company's effective tax rate, as set forth
in the Company's audited financial statements for such year or other period.

     (xv) "Total Return" shall mean the percent increase over a year or other
period in the value of an investor's holdings in the Company's Stock assuming
reinvestment of dividends.

In computing the foregoing Performance Measure with respect to any Award, there
shall be disregarded the impact of any accounting change mandated by Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles which becomes mandated and is implemented after
the related Performance Goal is established.





                                                                              25
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>8
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_2d.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.2(D)(V)
<TEXT>

                                                              Exhibit 10.2(d)(v)


                                             E-1 for Executives Subject to 16(b)

                                                               February __, 2006


                                              Name:_____________________________
                                              No. of SARs: _____________________
                                              Per SAR Exercise Price:___________


Dear Fellow Employee:

     As a key employee of Cytec Industries Inc. (the "Company"), or of a
subsidiary of the Company, you have been granted by the Compensation and
Management Development Committee (the "Committee") of the Company's Board of
Directors the number of stock appreciation rights ("SARs") set forth above. Upon
exercise (the "Exercise Date"), you will receive in the number of shares of
common stock, $.01 par value per share, of the Company ("Common Stock") equal in
amount to: (i) the excess of the fair market value of one share of Common Stock
on the Exercise Date over the SAR exercise price multiplied by (ii) the number
of SARs exercised and divided by (iii) the fair market value of one share of
Common Stock on the Exercise Date (iv) rounded to the nearest whole share.

     For purposes of determining fair market value on the date of exercise, fair
market value shall mean: (x) for exercise orders made on a business day during
the market hours of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) (9:30 AM (US EST) to 4:00
PM (US EST)) , the current market price for a share of Common Stock at the time
of exercise and (y) for exercise orders made after NYSE market hours and prior
to the NYSE market hours for the following business day (the "Following Business
Day"), the current market price for a share of Common Stock as of the opening
trade of the Following Business Day.

     The date of grant of these SARs is the date of this letter, which is the
date on which the Committee voted to grant these SARs. The exercise price
represents 100% of the fair market value per share of the Common Stock on the
date of the grant.


                                     1 of 4

<PAGE>

     Upon receipt by the Company of notification of exercise of these SARs in
the form prescribed from time to time by the Committee, the Company will cause a
certificate or certificates for such shares then purchased to be delivered to
the person entitled thereto.

     (1) These SARs must be exercised if at all and to the extent exercised, no
later than ten years from the date of grant, and then only (except as provided
in paragraphs (5) and (6) below) if you are then an employee of the Company or
of a company which on the date of exercise is a subsidiary or Affiliate (as
defined in the Company's 1993 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, as amended (the
"Plan")) of the Company.

     (2) These SARs shall vest and be exercisable in cumulative installments
over a period of three years as follows: to the extent of not more than
one-third of the number of SARs subject hereto, at any time after the expiration
of the first year of the term hereof; to the extent of not more than an
additional one-third of such SARs, at any time after the expiration of the
second year of such term; and to the extent of the remainder of such SARs, at
any time after the expiration of the third year of such term; provided that, as
specified in Section 7 of the Plan, this grant shall be immediately exercisable
in full upon a Change of Control (as defined in the Plan).

     (3) These SARs are not transferable otherwise than by will or by the laws
of descent and distribution or, if then permitted under Rule 16b-3 under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, pursuant to a qualified domestic relations
order as defined under the Internal Revenue Code and it may be exercised during
your lifetime, only by you or your guardian or legal representative; provided
however, upon any transfer, these SARs shall be exercisable by the transferee
only to the extent that it would be exercisable by you if it had not been
transferred. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, you may transfer these SARs, in
whole or in part, to (i) your spouse, (ii) your child or children, (iii) your
grandchild or grandchildren or (iv) a trust for any of the foregoing; provided
that the transfer shall be subject to all of the terms of the Plan and this
grant letter and, in addition, (A) the transferred SARs may not be retransferred
except to you, (B) you remain liable for all withholding taxes payable on
account of these SARs, (C) the Company may place transfer restrictions against
any shares of Common Stock issued to a transferee upon exercise of these SARs in
order to assure compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (D) you
give prompt written notice of the transfer to the Secretary of the Committee
including name, address, tax I.D. number and date of birth of the transferee,
number of shares subject to the transfer, and such other information as the
Company may require and (E) these SARs shall be exercisable by the transferee
only to the extent that it would be exercisable by you if it had not been so
transferred.

     (4) In the event of termination of your employment, these SARs, to the
extent not theretofore exercised, shall forthwith terminate unless such
termination of employment shall be by reason of a cause described in paragraph
(5) or (6) below, in which case the provisions of paragraph (5) or (6) below, as
the case may be, shall be applicable.

     (5) In the event that your employment with the Company or a subsidiary of
the Company terminates by reason of your (i) death, (ii) disability or (iii)
retirement on or after your 55th birthday with ten or more continuous years of
service or if not continuous, then ten or more years of combined service as
determined in the discretion of the Company's Vice President of Human Resources,
and the date of termination is eight months or more after the date of grant of
these SARs, these SARs may be exercised by you, your estate, any transferee
under paragraph 3 above, or any person who acquires the right to exercise this
grant by reason of your death, until one year after the last date on which any


                                     2 of 4

<PAGE>

options or SARs granted to you by the Company, which are not subsequently
cancelled, become fully exercisable (subject to installment exercise provisions
of paragraph 2, above), but not after ten years from the date of grant.

     (6) In the event that the Company or a subsidiary of the Company terminates
your employment (except for dishonesty or other good cause, in which case this
grant expires), you may exercise these SARs at any time within one year after
any such termination, but not after ten years from the date of grant, to the
extent of the number of SARs which were exercisable by you at the date of such
termination of your employment.

     (7) The Company, with the approval of an officer, may, at any time and
without cause, suspend the exercisability of these SARs if it becomes aware of
information that indicates that there may be grounds to terminate your
employment for dishonesty or other good cause. If upon conclusion of the
investigation the Company determines that it has not discovered grounds to
terminate your employment for dishonesty or other good cause, the suspension
shall be terminated.

     (8) Nothing in this grant shall confer on you any right to continue in the
employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or interfere in
any way with the right of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate to
terminate your employment at any time.

     (9) Subject to such limitations, if any, as the Committee may establish,
you may satisfy your mandatory federal and state income tax withholding
obligations resulting from the exercise of these SARs by requesting the Company
to withhold shares of Common Stock having a fair market value equal to the
withholding obligations. In order to prevent fractional shares, the number of
shares withheld shall be rounded up to the nearest whole share, with the value
of the fraction, being retained as additional optional withholding.

     Your exercise of these SARs, in whole or in part, constitutes your
agreement (i) to pay the Company promptly, on demand, any withholding taxes due
in respect of the exercise of this grant, (ii) that the Company, its
subsidiaries and affiliates may deduct an amount equal to such withholding taxes
from any amounts owing to you by the Company and/or any of such subsidiaries or
affiliates and (iii) that the Company may withhold from you shares of Common
Stock until the withholding taxes have been paid.

     The Company reserves the right to require these SARs to be exercised only
within the United States and to require stock certificates issuable to you upon
such exercise to be delivered only within the United States to you or to such
person who is appropriately authorized by you.

     Prior to the earliest time that these SARs may be exercised by you, the
Company will deliver to you a prospectus which meets the requirements of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and which further describes the Plan and
SARs granted thereunder.

     In no event is the grant of these SARs to you to be deemed, directly or
indirectly, a recommendation by the Company that you at any time exercise this
grant.

     This grant and the exercise of these SARs are subject to the terms and
conditions hereof and of the the Plan. A copy of the Plan, under which the SARs
are granted to you, will be made available to you on request by contacting the
undersigned. In the event of any conflict between the terms of these SARs and
the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern.


                                     3 of 4

<PAGE>


                                                 Very truly yours,

                                                 CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.


                                                 BY:______________________
                                                    Joseph E. Marosits
                                                    Secretary-Compensation
                                                    and Management
                                                    Development Committee


Enc.



                                     4 of 4
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>9
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_2dvi.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10 2(D)(VI)
<TEXT>

                                                             Exhibit 10.2(d)(vi)


                          PERFORMANCE CASH AWARD UNDER
                            THE CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.
                       1993 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN


February 9, 2006


[Employee name]
[Address]


Target Amount of Performance Cash Award: $
                                          ----------------------------

Performance Period:  January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008


Dear [first name]:

     As a key  employee  of  Cytec  Industries  Inc.  (the  "Company"),  or of a
subsidiary  or  affiliate  of  the  Company,   you  have  been  granted  by  the
Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Committee") of the Board
of Directors,  for the one-year performance period indicated above a performance
cash award  ("Performance  Cash Award").  This award is subject to the terms and
conditions  hereof and of the Company's 1993 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the
"Plan").


     (1)  Subject  to  Paragraphs  (4),  (5) and (7) below,  and  subject to the
          attainment  of  performance  goals  as  hereinafter   provided,   this
          Performance  Cash Award  shall vest  effective  as of January 1, 2009;
          provided that such vesting shall be subject to the further requirement
          that the Committee certify that the performance goals have been met.

     (2)  Performance goals, and the related payout matrix, for this Performance
          Cash Award have been set by the  Committee  and will be advised to you
          in writing (the "Target  Documentation").  The  performance  goals are
          based 50% on year 2008 EPS and 50% on 2008 ROIC. The performance goals
          provide for the partial vesting of the  Performance  Cash Award in the
          event that the EPS performance  goal or the ROIC  performance  goal is
          substantially, but not fully, achieved.


<PAGE>


Performance Cash Award -
February 9, 2006


     (3)  The  Performance  Cash Award may not be sold,  assigned,  transferred,
          pledged,  hypothecated  or  otherwise  disposed  of; and  neither  any
          interest therein or under the Plan, may be assigned; and any attempted
          assignment shall be void.

     (4)  If your employment  with the Company or a subsidiary  terminates on or
          prior to the end of the performance period, the Performance Cash Award
          shall be  forfeited,  except as  provided in  paragraphs  (5) and (6),
          below, or except as the Committee shall otherwise determine.

     (5)  If your  employment  with the  Company or a  subsidiary  or  affiliate
          terminates by reason of your (i) death,  (ii) disability as defined in
          the Company's Long-Term  Disability Plan, (iii) retirement on or after
          your 60th birthday,  or (iv) under other  circumstances  determined by
          the  Committee to be not contrary to the best interest of the Company,
          then, if such termination  occurs in 2008, your Performance Cash Award
          shall not be forfeited by reason of such  termination  of  employment;
          and if your employment so terminates in 2007, two-thirds of said award
          shall not be so  forfeited;  and if your  employment  so terminates in
          2006,  one-third  of said  award  shall not be so  forfeited.  Nothing
          contained  in this  paragraph  shall  preclude  the Company  (with the
          approval of the  Committee) and you from agreeing in writing as to the
          portion  of  your  award  which  is not  forfeited  by  reason  of the
          termination of your employment.

     (6)  As provided in the Plan,  and in the  Committee's  "Target  Document,"
          upon the  occurrence  of a "change in control" all  unvested  (and not
          previously  forfeited)  amounts of the  Performance  Cash Award  shall
          immediately  vest  as  if  the  maximum  performance  goals  had  been
          achieved.  Upon  such  occurrence,   the  cash  value  of  the  vested
          Performance Cash Award shall be delivered to you promptly.

     (7)  The Committee's Rules of General Application, as in effect on the date
          hereof, provide that under certain circumstances,  in lieu of vesting,
          a portion of a  Performance  Cash Award will be forfeited and you will
          be issued, instead, an equivalent Deferred Cash Award.

     (8)  Nothing in this award shall confer on you any right to continue in the
          employ of the  Company or any of its  subsidiaries  or  affiliates  or
          interfere  in any way with the right of the Company or any  subsidiary
          or affiliate to terminate your employment at any time.

     (9)  You agree to pay the  Company  promptly,  on demand,  any  withholding
          taxes due in respect of the Awards  made  hereunder.  The  Company may
          deduct such  withholding  taxes from any  amounts  owing to you by the
          Company or by any of its  subsidiaries  or affiliates,  including from
          this Performance Cash Award.


                                       2

<PAGE>


Performance Cash Award -
February 9, 2006

     In the event of any conflict  between the terms of this  Agreement  and the
provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern.

     If you accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement,  please
execute the enclosed  copy of this letter where  indicated and return it as soon
as possible, at which time the award shall become effective.

                                         Very truly yours,

                                         CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.


                                         BY:
                                            ---------------------------
                                            J. E. Marosits
                                            Secretary - Compensation
                                            and Management
                                            Development Committee

Enc.

ACCEPTED:

- ----------------------------
Employee Name:
Social Security No.
Date:


                                       3
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>10
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.2(P)
<TEXT>

                                                                 Exhibit 10.2(p)

                     RULES OF GENERAL APPLICATION UNDER THE
                           CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC. 1993
                         STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN
                               (Adopted 2/9/2006)


Rule 4.   This  Rule  applies  to stock  options  granted  to  employees  of the
Corporation and its subsidiaries by, or under the authority of, the Compensation
and Management Development Committee (the "Committee").

     The  provision in certain  options which states that the last date on which
     the option may be exercised  after the  termination of employment by reason
     of  death,  disability  or  retirement  on or after age 55 with ten or more
     years of service  shall be "until one year after the last date on which any
     options  granted  to  you  by  the  Company,  which  are  not  subsequently
     cancelled,  become fully  exercisable"  shall be interpreted to mean "until
     one year after the last date on which any options or SARs granted to you by
     the  Company,   which  are  not   subsequently   cancelled,   become  fully
     exercisable."

This Rule does not apply options granted on or after February 9, 2006.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.3
<SEQUENCE>11
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_3.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.3
<TEXT>

                                                                    Exhibit 10.3

ADDRESSEE ONLY
- --------------

                                             Mr. Shane FLEMING
                                             -----------------


                                             New Jersey, December 11th, 2005


Dear Mr. Fleming,


In the frame of your employment  contract with Cytec  Industries INC., we hereby
have the  pleasure  to offer you a temporary  assignment  in  Brussels,  Belgium
within Cytec Surface Specialties SA/NV.

As from January 1st, 2006, you will be assigned to Belgium for a period of three
years.  Given that such  assignment  requires  some  flexibility,  Cytec Surface
Specialties  retains  the  right to  extend or reduce  this  term,  taking  into
consideration  the  evolution  of  business  needs  with a maximum of 5 years in
total.

The policy applicable during your assignment to Belgium will be the Expatriation
Policy 2006.

The breakdown of your package is shown on the enclosed sheet (enclosure 1).


1.   EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
     --------------------

     During your temporary  employment at Cytec Surface  Specialties SA/NV, your
     employment agreement with Cytec Industries Inc. will remain in force.

     This  employment  agreement  will, by mutual  agreement,  be subject to the
     additional  provisions  as set out in this letter,  as well as to the legal
     provisions of the country you will be working in (i.e. Belgium).

     The  termination  of your US  contract  would put an  automatic  end to the
     present assignment contract.


2.   JOB DESCRIPTION
     ---------------

     During your Belgian  assignment  you will be employed as  `President  Cytec
     Specialty Chemicals'.


3.   REMUNERATION
     ------------

     During your assignment in Belgium,  you will receive from Cytec  Industries
     Inc., onto your US bank account, a monthly gross salary of USD 30,000,00 (x
     12/year) less actual social security contributions, hypothetical income tax
     and other applicable deductions.


<PAGE>


International Assignment
S. Fleming
Page 2 of 5

     During  the  course of the  assignment,  your  gross  base  salary  will be
     reviewed annually  according to the terms and procedures  prevailing in the
     Home country,  but will be based on your performance and achievement in the
     Host country.

     At the end of each year you may be entitled to a target  bonus under the US
     employee bonus system,  depending on your meeting your personal  objectives
     as set out by Cytec Industries Inc.


4.   SOCIAL SECURITY
     ---------------

     During your  assignment,  you will  remain  subject to the actual US social
     security,  through the social agreement signed between Belgium and the USA.
     Cytec Surface  Specialties  SA/NV will undertake all necessary  measures to
     obtain the exception from the Belgian social security  system  materialized
     through the Certificate of coverage.

     In  addition,  you will be  entitled  to  benefit  from a  private  medical
     insurance  contracted and paid by Cytec Surface Specialties SA/NV and which
     will  cover 80% of  medical  and up to 100%  hospitalization  expenses  and
     repatriation insurance.

5.   HOLIDAY ENTITLEMENT
     -------------------

     Your  annual  vacation  entitlement  will  be in  accordance  with  your US
     vacation  policy.  However,  should  local  custom  provide  for a combined
     vacation and bank holiday policy that is more generous, you may participate
     in that policy.

6.   TAX AND LEGAL ASSISTANCE
     ------------------------

     Given the  taxation  competence  to be complied  with in  Belgium,  the tax
     administration of each of the abovementioned  elements needs to be examined
     under the  requirements  of the Belgian tax  legislation.  The assigned tax
     consultants  will help you in meeting your tax filing  obligations  in both
     the Home and the Host  country.  The fees related to this duty will be paid
     by Cytec Surface Specialties.

     Furthermore,  in Belgium,  Cytec  Surface  Specialties  will  undertake all
     necessary  measures  in order to  obtain  the  application  of the  foreign
     executive's tax regime.

     In order to complete your tax returns,  you are  responsible  for providing
     all necessary  information to the tax consultant in a timely manner. If you
     fail to provide this  information in the designated  time period,  and as a
     result,  cause a late  filing of your  returns,  you will be liable for any
     penalties, fines and interest incurred.


7.   EXTRA LEGAL BENEFITS
     --------------------

     During your Belgian assignment,  you will remain eligible to participate in
     the US Cytec Industries Inc. benefit plans including the flexible benefits,
     pension and savings and profit sharing plans.


8.   RELOCATION PROCESS
     ------------------

     Expenses  related to your  relocation to Belgium will be supported by Cytec
     Surface  Specialties  SA/NV,  subject to the terms and  conditions  set out
     below.


<PAGE>


International Assignment
S. Fleming
Page 3 of 5

     8.1. Travel expenses
     Cytec Surface  Specialties  will reimburse your travel expenses to Belgium,
     as well as your family's, at the beginning of your assignment.


     8.2. Moving
     The company will pay the expenses  relating to the moving of your  personal
     belongings  to your  chosen  accommodation  in Belgium.  The  International
     Mobility  Department  will  arrange  your  moving in  collaboration  with a
     relocation company designated by Cytec Surface Specialties.

     Cytec Surface  Specialties  SA/NV will bear the cost of an insurance policy
     against damages during the move. Therefore,  you are requested to submit to
     the moving company at least one week prior to the move, a detailed list and
     valuation of the household goods to be moved.

     Upon  completion of your assignment to Belgium,  Cytec Surface  Specialties
     will pay the expenses relating to the moving of your personal belongings to
     your home country.


     8.3. Settling-in allowance
     Cytec Surface Specialties will pay a flat rate settling-in allowance of USD
     10,000.00 at the beginning of your  employment.  We would like to draw your
     attention that in case of tax control or queries by the tax authorities, it
     is the employee's responsibility to produce proof of his relocation costs.


     8.4. Relocation
     You and your spouse are  entitled to a one-week  house  hunting  trip.  The
     travel to and from New Jersey  and the hotel will be paid by Cytec  Surface
     Specialties.  A  professional  relocation  company  will  help you with any
     question  with regards to living in Belgium  (lease  agreement,  utilities,
     real estate agency & house hunting,  bank account set up, liaison with bank
     to assist in mortgage  application  and  approval  process...)  during your
     stay.  In case you do not find a house  immediately  or in case you  cannot
     enter into your house immediately,  Cytec Surface  Specialties will pay for
     temporary accommodation, up to a maximum of three months.

     Cytec will also  assist you and bear the costs of the sale of your  current
     accommodation in New Jersey and will further assist you for the purchase of
     a condo.


9.   HOUSING
     -------

     During  your  stay  in  Belgium,  your  will  be  entitled  to  stay  in an
     accommodation with a monthly rental of up to EUR 4,600.00.  This amount can
     be reviewed  in case of an  increase  in rental  prices at the onset of the
     assignment.


9.   HOME LEAVE
     ----------

     Cytec  Surface  Specialties  will  provide you and your family  (spouse and
     children)  with two roundtrip  return tickets per twelve months stay in the
     Host country.  If you choose not to use these tickets,  you are entitled to
     pass them on to close family members (parents only).

     In case of the death or serious  illness of a member of your family (direct
     line or second degree), you will be entitled to a return ticket to the USA.


<PAGE>


International Assignment
S. Fleming
Page 4 of 5

10.  EXPAT PREMIUM
     -------------

     You will be granted an Expat  Premium  amounting to an annual gross payment
     of USD  25,000.00,  the maximum  allocated  for an  assignment.  This first
     amount  represents the premium  granted during the first year of assignment
     and will be at the beginning of the assignment.  A pro-rated  second amount
     will be paid upon return to your home country and will  represent the final
     two year's expat premium.


11.  COLA (Cost of Living Allowance)
     -------------------------------

     It is anticipated  that you will receive a cost of living  allowance due to
     offset the  difference in the purchase  price of cost of goods and services
     between the USA and  Belgium.  This  allowance  is  determined  by applying
     appropriate  indices (as published by ORC) to your  spendable  income,  and
     will be adjusted  four times a year  relative to the ORC  official  rate of
     exchange and upon any changes in the index  resulting from pricing  surveys
     or  inflationary  adjustments.  The allowance can be increased,  reduced or
     withdrawn according to changes in the ORC index.

12.  TAX EQUALIZATION
     ----------------

     Your taxes will be equalized.  Your Belgian income tax burden should remain
     the same as if you lived in the USA and that no advantage  or  disadvantage
     shall accrue to you due to differences in income tax rates between  Belgium
     and the USA.  Cytec  Surface  Specialties  will bear the cost of the actual
     income taxes (home and host countries)  incurred during your assignment and
     linked to your professional incomes.

     Your US income tax burden,  which is labeled as "hypothetical tax", will be
     based on Cytec Surface Specialties  professional earned income (annual base
     salary, bonus, SOP) and the personal  income/deductions  that you may have.
     The  hypothetical  tax burden will be  deducted  from your  monthly  global
     compensation.

     There will be a reconciliation  at the end of each year to correct any over
     or under  payments  made  during  the year.  Please  note that any  refunds
     received by you and related to the taxable  income covered under the policy
     of tax  equalization  will be owed to the  Company and will not be yours to
     keep for as long as you remain an employee of Cytec.

     The  declaration of personal  income taxes,  in accordance with any and all
     tax regulations which apply, will remain your responsibility.


13.  COMPANY CAR
     -----------

     Cytec  Surface  Specialties  will put at your  disposal a company  car,  in
     accordance with the rules and regulations in force from time to time within
     the Belgian company.

     A deduction  for the private use of the car will be  applicable  during the
     assignment based on the Host country policy.


14.  MISCELLANEOUS
     -------------

     In case  unexpected  circumstances  would  arise  during  the  term of this
     agreement,  the parties will  discuss  these  circumstances  with a view to
     finding a solution suitable to both parties.


<PAGE>


International Assignment
S. Fleming
Page 5 of 5

     During this  assignment,  the  expatriate  agreement  will supersede the US
     contract terms when in conflict.



Looking forward to your acceptance of the assignment,


Yours sincerely,


            /s/ Joseph E. Marosits                            /s/ David Lilley
            ----------------------                          ------------------
                   J. Marosits                                  D. Lilley
      Vice-President Human Resources Cytec                      CEO Cytec

For acceptance


S. Fleming
- ----------

/s/ Shane Fleming
- -----------------
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.4
<SEQUENCE>12
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_4.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.4
<TEXT>

                                                                    Exhibit 10.4


                        RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD UNDER
                            THE CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.
                       1993 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN

                                                                   March 1, 2005

Mr. J. P. Cronin
33 Tower Hill Lane
Kinnelon, NJ 07405

Units of Restricted Stock:    4000
                              ----


Dear Employee:

     You have  been  granted  by the  Compensation  and  Management  Development
Committee (the  "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Cytec  Industries Inc.
(the "Company") 4000 Restricted Stock Units.  This award is subject to the terms
and  conditions  hereof and of the Company's 1993 Stock Award and Incentive Plan
(the "Plan"). Restricted Stock Units are awarded pursuant to Section 6(e) of the
Plan.

     (1) Subject to Paragraphs (7), (8) and (9) below,  this award of Restricted
Stock Units shall vest as follows: 1334 Restricted Stock Units on March 1, 2006,
1333 Restricted  Stock Units on March 1, 2007 and 1333 Restricted Stock Units on
March 1, 2008.

     (2) Promptly  after the date any of the  Restricted  Stock Units covered by
this award vest, the Company will pay to you the value of such Restricted  Stock
Units determined as follows:  multiply the number of such Restricted Stock Units
by the sum of (x) and (y) where (x) is the  arithmetical  average of the closing
sales price per share of the Company's  common stock, par value $0.01 per share,
on the national  securities  exchange on which such stock is principally traded,
for each day on which such stock exchange was open for trading during the thirty
calendar  days  immediately  preceding the date of vesting and (y) is the sum of
any cash dividends  paid on a share of the Company's  common stock from the date
of this award through the vesting date. After the Company has paid you the value
of such Restricted Stock Units, they shall be of no further force and effect.

     (3) The  Restricted  Stock  Units may not be sold,  assigned,  transferred,
pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of; and neither any interest therein
or under the Plan may be assigned; and any attempted assignment shall be void.

     (4) No cash  dividends  will be paid or  earned on  outstanding  Restricted
Stock Units.

     (5) The Restricted Stock Units do not have any voting rights.


<PAGE>


Restricted Stock Unit Award -
March 1, 2005

     (6) Any stock of the  Company  or any of its  subsidiaries  distributed  in
connection with a stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization or other similar
transaction shall be deemed to be part of the Restricted Stock Unit and included
in the valuation of the Restricted Stock Unit on its vesting date.

     (7) On  termination  of your  employment  with  the  Company  or any of its
subsidiaries  for any  reason  all  unvested  Restricted  Stock  Units  shall be
forfeited,  except as provided in paragraph (8) below or except as the Committee
shall otherwise determine.

     (8) If your  employment  with the  Company  or a  subsidiary  or  affiliate
terminates  by reason of your (i)  death,  (ii)  disability  as  defined  in the
Company's  Long-Term  Disability  Plan,  (iii)  retirement on or after your 60th
birthday,  or (iv) under other  circumstances  determined by the Committee to be
not contrary to the best  interest of the  Company,  then any  Restricted  Stock
Units that vest within twelve months after the  termination  of your  employment
shall not be  forfeited by reason of such  termination  of  employment.  Nothing
contained in this paragraph shall preclude the Company (with the approval of the
Committee)  and you from  agreeing  in writing  as to the  portion of your award
which is not forfeited by reason of the termination of your employment.

     (9) As provided in the Plan,  upon the  occurrence of a "change in control"
all unvested (and not previously forfeited or terminated) Restricted Stock Units
shall  immediately  vest.  Upon  such  occurrence,  the  value  of  such  vested
Restricted  Stock Units as  determined in  accordance  with  paragraph 2 of this
Award shall be paid to you promptly.

     (10) Nothing in this Award shall confer on you any right to continue in the
employ of the Company or any of its  subsidiaries  or affiliates or interfere in
any way  with  the  right of the  Company  or any  subsidiary  or  affiliate  to
terminate your employment at any time.

     (11) You agree to pay the  Company  promptly,  on demand,  any  withholding
taxes due in respect of the Awards made  hereunder.  The Company may deduct such
withholding  taxes from any amounts owing to you by the Company or by any of its
subsidiaries  or  affiliates,  including  from any proceeds of Restricted  Stock
Units payable to you.

     In the event of any conflict  between the terms of this  Agreement  and the
provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern.


                                       2

<PAGE>


Restricted Stock Unit Award -
March 1, 2005


     If you accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement,  please
execute the enclosed  copy of this letter where  indicated and return it as soon
as possible, at which time the award shall become effective.

                                                    Very truly yours,

                                                    CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.


                                                    BY: /s/ J.E. Marosits
                                                        -----------------------
                                                        J. E. Marosits
                                                        Secretary - Compensation
                                                        and Management
                                                        Development Committee
Enc.

ACCEPTED:

/s/ James P. Cronin
- -------------------------------
Employee Name:  James P. Cronin
Social Security No. ###-##-####
Date:


                                       3
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.5
<SEQUENCE>13
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_5.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.5
<TEXT>

                                                                    Exhibit 10.5



                        RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD UNDER
                            THE CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.
                       1993 STOCK AWARD AND INCENTIVE PLAN

                                                                   March 1, 2005

Mr. W. N. Arvin
12 Michelle Way
Pine Brook, NJ 07058

Units of Restricted Stock:  2000
                            ----

Dear Employee:

     You have  been  granted  by the  Compensation  and  Management  Development
Committee (the  "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Cytec  Industries Inc.
(the "Company") 2000 Restricted Stock Units.  This award is subject to the terms
and  conditions  hereof and of the Company's 1993 Stock Award and Incentive Plan
(the "Plan"). Restricted Stock Units are awarded pursuant to Section 6(e) of the
Plan.

     (1)  Subject to Paragraphs (7), (8) and (9) below, this award of Restricted
Stock Units shall vest as follows:  667 Restricted Stock Units on March 1, 2006,
667 Restricted  Stock Units on March 1, 2007 and 666  Restricted  Stock Units on
March 1, 2008.

     (2)  Promptly after the date any of the  Restricted  Stock Units covered by
this award vest, the Company will pay to you the value of such Restricted  Stock
Units determined as follows:  multiply the number of such Restricted Stock Units
by the sum of (x) and (y) where (x) is the  arithmetical  average of the closing
sales price per share of the Company's  common stock, par value $0.01 per share,
on the national  securities  exchange on which such stock is principally traded,
for each day on which such stock exchange was open for trading during the thirty
calendar  days  immediately  preceding the date of vesting and (y) is the sum of
any cash dividends  paid on a share of the Company's  common stock from the date
of this award through the vesting date. After the Company has paid you the value
of such Restricted Stock Units, they shall be of no further force and effect.

     (3)  The  Restricted  Stock Units may not be sold,  assigned,  transferred,
pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of; and neither any interest therein
or under the Plan may be assigned; and any attempted assignment shall be void.

     (4)  No cash  dividends  will be paid or earned on  outstanding  Restricted
Stock Units.

     (5)  The Restricted Stock Units do not have any voting rights.



<PAGE>

Restricted Stock Unit Award -
March 1, 2005

     (6)  Any stock of the  Company or any of its  subsidiaries  distributed  in
connection with a stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization or other similar
transaction shall be deemed to be part of the Restricted Stock Unit and included
in the valuation of the Restricted Stock Unit on its vesting date.

     (7)  On  termination  of your  employment  with the  Company  or any of its
subsidiaries  for any  reason  all  unvested  Restricted  Stock  Units  shall be
forfeited,  except as provided in paragraph (8) below or except as the Committee
shall otherwise determine.

     (8)  If your  employment  with the  Company or a  subsidiary  or  affiliate
terminates  by reason of your (i)  death,  (ii)  disability  as  defined  in the
Company's  Long-Term  Disability  Plan,  (iii)  retirement on or after your 60th
birthday,  or (iv) under other  circumstances  determined by the Committee to be
not contrary to the best  interest of the  Company,  then any  Restricted  Stock
Units that vest within twelve months after the  termination  of your  employment
shall not be  forfeited by reason of such  termination  of  employment.  Nothing
contained in this paragraph shall preclude the Company (with the approval of the
Committee)  and you from  agreeing  in writing  as to the  portion of your award
which is not forfeited by reason of the termination of your employment.

     (9)  As provided in the Plan,  upon the occurrence of a "change in control"
all unvested (and not previously forfeited or terminated) Restricted Stock Units
shall  immediately  vest.  Upon  such  occurrence,  the  value  of  such  vested
Restricted  Stock Units as  determined in  accordance  with  paragraph 2 of this
Award shall be paid to you promptly.

     (10) Nothing in this Award shall confer on you any right to continue in the
employ of the Company or any of its  subsidiaries  or affiliates or interfere in
any way  with  the  right of the  Company  or any  subsidiary  or  affiliate  to
terminate your employment at any time.

     (11) You agree to pay the  Company  promptly,  on demand,  any  withholding
taxes due in respect of the Awards made  hereunder.  The Company may deduct such
withholding  taxes from any amounts owing to you by the Company or by any of its
subsidiaries  or  affiliates,  including  from any proceeds of Restricted  Stock
Units payable to you.

     In the event of any conflict  between the terms of this  Agreement  and the
provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall govern.



                                        2

<PAGE>

Restricted Stock Unit Award -
March 1, 2005



     If you accept the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement,  please
execute the enclosed  copy of this letter where  indicated and return it as soon
as possible, at which time the award shall become effective.

                                             Very truly yours,

                                             CYTEC INDUSTRIES INC.


                                             BY: /s/ J.E. Marosits
                                                 -----------------------
                                                 J.E. Marosits
                                                 Secretary - Compensation
                                                 and Management
                                                 Development Committee
Enc.

ACCEPTED:


 /s/ William N. Avrin
- --------------------------------
Employee Name:  William N. Arvin
Social Security No. ###-##-####
Date:



                                        3
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.6
<SEQUENCE>14
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_6.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.6
<TEXT>

                                                                    Exhibit 10.6
                                            (Translated from Dutch into English)

                                    AGREEMENT
                             dated November 30, 2005


BETWEEN :      N.V. CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES
               Square Marie Curie 11
               1070 Brussels

               Represented by Mr. Shane Flemming, President Cytec Specialty
               Chemicals, acting in his capacity of legal representative

               Hereinafter referred to as "the Company"


AND :          Mr. Benoit VAN ASSCHE, having his residence at
               Hof ter Weerdestraat 16
               1850 Grimbergen

               Hereinafter referred to as "Mr. Van Assche"



IT HAS BEEN AGREED AS FOLLOWS :


Article 1
- ---------

The  employment  agreement of Mr. Van Assche is  terminated  by the Company with
immediate  effect on November  30, 2005.  As of this date,  Mr. Van Assche is no
longer  a  member  of the  personnel  of the  Company  and he is  exempted  from
performance of any work for the Company.


Article 2
- ---------

This  agreement is a settlement  agreement in the sense of the articles 2044 and
following of the Civil Code.


Article 3
- ---------

At the latest within the 30 days  following  November 30, 2005 the Company shall
pay the following amounts to Mr. Van Assche :

     -    the 13th month 2005 on a prorated basis (11/12) ;
     -    the legally due holiday pay by departure ;
     -    the legally due holiday pay for the  non-taken  holiday  days of 2005,
          which have been fixed at 17,5 days.


                                      -1-

<PAGE>


At the latest within the same period, the Company will deliver to Mr. Van Assche
all legally due documents related to the termination of the employment agreement
(including the C4-document mentioning as reason of unemployment "reorganisation
of the management").


Article 4
- ---------

At the latest on December  31,  2005,  the Company will pay to Mr. Van Assche an
indemnity  in  lieu  of  notice  equal  to a  gross  amount  of  658.794,42  EUR
corresponding to 20 months of remuneration.

The employee social security contributions and the company tax withholdings will
be deducted from the above mentioned amount.


Article 5
- ---------

Mr. Van Assche  agrees and hereby  accepts the notice period that has been taken
into account for the calculation of the indemnity in lieu of notice,  the amount
of that indemnity and its computation basis.


Article 6
- ---------

Mr. Van Assche is well-informed  about the fact that the obligations  applicable
to him by virtue of article 17,  3(degree)  of the Law on  Employment  Contracts
dated July 3, 1978,  remain into force after the  termination  of the employment
contract.

He will thus refrain from making known,  making public or making known as far as
they weren't part of the public domain yet,  factory  secrets,  business secrets
and secrets concerning  personal and confidential  matters,  which he would have
been informed about, directly or indirectly.

These  secrets   include   especially,   but  without   limitation,   processes,
manufacturing  processes,  plans,  drafts,  agreements,  technical,  commercial,
accounting and other confidential information.

He will also continue to refrain from performing or  collaborating to any action
of unfair competition.


Article 7
- ---------

Mr. Van Assche may, at the  Company's  expense,  use the  services of Deloitte &
Touch  or any  other  equivalent  advisor  appointed  by  the  Company  for  the
completion of his tax form for the incomes of 2005.


                                      -2-

<PAGE>


Article 8
- ---------

The Company renounces to the application of the non-competition  clause included
in the employment agreement.


Article 9
- ---------

Mr.  Van  Assche  will,  at first  request,  resign  as  member  of the board of
directors of the companies of the Cytec-group where he presently  exercises such
mandates.

The  Company  hereby  commits  itself  that  the  concerned   company(ies)  will
immediately do the necessary legal  obligations  and/or  formalities  that might
apply in such case (including the publications  and the possible  replacement of
Mr. Van Assche).

On the basis of the  information  that is, up to the present date,  known by the
shareholders of the Company,  the Company,  it its quality of shareholder,  will
give to Mr. Van  Assche a  provisional  discharge  for the  execution  of al his
mandates as a director of companies of the Cytec-group  (and the Company commits
itself  for  the  other  affiliated  companies  which  are  shareholders  of the
companies where Mr. Van Assche is or was a member of the board of directors), it
being  understood  that  the  definite  discharge  can only be given by the next
General Assembly of the shareholders that will examine the annual accounts.

The Company  will,  as far as such amounts  wouldn't be covered by the insurance
agreements subscribed by the Cytec-Group, cover the cost of the legal defence of
Mr. Van Assche  and the  possible  financial  consequences  of any  condemnation
relative to claims towards Mr. Van Assche that already exist or that could arise
and find their cause in the  execution of the functions  and/or  mandates of Mr.
Van Assche within the companies of the  Cytec-group.  This  engagement  does not
apply in case of fraud or serious cause of Mr. Van Assche.


Article 10
- ----------

Under  condition  of the full  respect of the  present  agreement,  the  parties
acknowledge  that all their rights have been fulfilled and waive any other right
or claim that exists or that could arise as a consequence of, or on the occasion
of the agreement that existed between them or the termination of it.

This waiver of Mr. Van Assche  applies to the Company in  particular  as well as
all other companies of the Cytec-group.

The Company commits itself that this renunciation related to Mr. Van Assche also
applies to all other companies of the Cytec-group.


                                      -3-

<PAGE>


Article 11
- ----------

Moreover,  both parties renounce to invoke any legal or factual error as well as
any omission related to the existence and/or the extent of their rights.



Made at Brussels on November 30, 2005, in 2 originals,  each party acknowledging
having received a copy.



For the N.V. CYTEC SURFACE                                Mr. Benoit VAN ASSCHE
SPECIALTIES


/s/ Shane Flemming                                        /s/ Benoit Van Assche
- ------------------                                        ---------------------
Shane Flemming
President Cytec Specialty Chemicals
Duly represented


                                      -4-

<PAGE>


                                                   Mr. Benoit VAN
                                                   ASSCHE Hof ter
                                                   Weerdestraat 16
                                                   1850 Grimbergen



                                                   Brussels, November 30, 2005


Dear Mister Van Assche,


In addition to the  settlement  agreement that we have concluded with you today,
the N.V.  Cytec Surface  Specialties  hereby  assures that you will receive,  in
connection  with your mandates in the foreign  companies of the  Cytec-Group,  a
global gross amount of 445.000 EUR.  This payment will be done as full and final
payment related to your mandates as member of the boards of directors within the
Cytec-group en will take place before December 31, 2007.

In case of a total or partial absence of payment of the above  mentioned  amount
at the above mentioned date, the N.V. Cytec Surface  Specialties  will pay you a
gross amount of 445.000 EUR, or the balance of it, at the latest on December 31,
2007. The legal withholdings, if applicable, will be deducted from this amount.

We hereby also confirm that you may use, at the Company's expense,  the services
of Deloitte & Touch or any other equivalent  advisor appointed by the N.V. Cytec
Surface  Specialties  for the  completion  of your tax  forms  in the  different
relevant jurisdictions for the incomes of the year 2005, 2006 and 2007.

This letter is an addendum to the  settlement  agreement  that we have concluded
today and is integrally part of it.

This letter is made up in two copies,  one for each party. We invite you to sign
one copy of this letter for approval.

Sincerely,

For the N.V. Cytec Surface Specialties

/s/ Shane Fleming
- -----------------
Shane FLEMING
President Cytec Specialty Chemicals
Properly represented
                                                     For approval,
                                                     /s/ Benoit Van Assche
                                                     ---------------------
                                                     Benoit VAN ASSCHE


                                      -5-

<PAGE>


                                                     Mr. Benoit VAN
                                                     ASSCHE Hof ter
                                                     Weerdestraat 16
                                                     1850 Grimbergen



                                                     Brussels, November 30, 2005


Dear Mister Van Assche,


In addition to the  settlement  agreement that we have concluded with you today,
the  following  is  hereby  agreed  concerning  the  group  insurance  contracts
applicable to your situation :

1.   Concerning   the   group   insurance   contract   "AXA    Groepsverzekering
     Voorzorgsplan voor de aangeslotene categorie bestaande uit de leden van het
     Uitvoerend  Comite  inclusief de CEO van de nv Cytec Surface  Specialties",
     with number : 07.3705.

     The N.V. Cytec Surface  Specialties will pay, in your favour,  to the group
     insurance company before December 31, 2005 a gross amount of 673.898,95 EUR
     (tax on insurance contracts and social security contributions  excluded) as
     extra-legal pension premium for the period covered by the indemnity in lieu
     of notice  which has been granted to you (20 months) and the period of your
     employment during the year 2005 (11 months).


2.   Concerning the group insurance contract with Fortis AG, with number :
     __________________ ;


     As provided,  the N.V. Cytec Surface  Specialties signs the group insurance
     contract  (cf.  addendum  1) with  effect on the 1st of March  2005.  It is
     guaranteed  to you  that,  at the age of 60,  you will be  entitled  to the
     payment of a gross  pension  capital of 3.672.544  EUR,  including the part
     built by your own  contributions  before  the  first of March  2005 at AXA,
     corresponding  at 391.033 EUR. The  acquired  reserves  are, on the date of
     30th November 2005,  estimated at 3.611.419 EUR (cf.  enclosed  calculation
     note of Towers Perrin as addendum 2). We also noted that you agree with the
     fact that we will  deduct the  contributions  which you are still  indebted
     (namely  5.986,25  EUR)  from the net  amount of the  indemnity  in lieu of
     notice which has been granted to you.

     We noted your wish to place the acquired  reserves,  from December 1, 2005,
     in a specific structure in order to benefit from a decease coverage as from
     December 1, 2005.  N.V. Cytec Surface  Specialties  gives  immediately  the
     necessary instructions to the concerned insurance company.


                                      -6-

<PAGE>


This letter is an addendum to the  settlement  agreement  that we have concluded
today and is integrally part of it.

This letter is made up in two copies,  one for each party. We invite you to sign
one copy of this letter for approval.

Sincerely,

For the N.V. Cytec Surface Specialties

/s/ Shane Fleming
- -----------------
Shane FLEMING
President Cytec Specialty Chemicals
Duly represented
                                                        For approval,
                                                        /s/ Benoit Van Assche
                                                        ---------------------
Addenda : 2                                             Benoit VAN ASSCHE


                                      -7-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.7
<SEQUENCE>15
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_7.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.7
<TEXT>
                                                                    Exhibit 10.7

                                            (Translated from Dutch into English)
UCB
UCB N.V. Human Resources Head Office - Researchdreff 60, B-1070 Brussels

PERSONAL                                                      MR. BEN VAN ASSCHE


                                                         Brussels, June 29, 1998

Dear Mr. Van Assche:

Further to our recent discussion, we wish to confirm the changes in your total
compensation package.

As of January 1, 1998, your monthly gross salary will be increased from 559,701
BEF to 774,509 BEF.

In addition, as of January 1, 1998, the foreign variable income will be
considered as part of your fixed base salary. However, the company reserves the
right to modify this salary policy (split pay policy) at any time.

As of January 1, 1998, the existing variable compensation (contractual bonus) as
described in our letters of 6/25/85, 11/27/86 and 4/15/88 is being replaced with
the following program.

You will be entitled to a "target" bonus of 100% of your total annual base
salary (including foreign fixed salary and representation compensation). This
"target" bonus also includes the premium that the company pays out to the
supplemental group insurance.

The payout level of this "target" bonus shall depend on reaching the targets,
company figure targets as well as personal targets.

As of January 1, 1998, you will also be included in a new supplemental group
insurance for which you will be receiving the terms and conditions shortly. The
company premium for the supplemental group insurance shall under no
circumstances be higher than the abovementioned total bonus amount paid out.

To get acquainted with the new program, your bonus payment during a transition
period of 3 years starting with January 1, 1998, shall not be less than
15,195,608 BEF.

Enclosed you will find a sheet with the calculation which contains all details
of your new salary package, together with the rules of the new bonus program.

If you have any other questions, do not hesitate to contact the Corporate Human
Resources Director.

Please return the enclosed copy signed by you to indicate your approval.

Sincerely,



/S/ D. JANSSEN                            /S/ G. JACOBS
- --------------                            -------------------
D. Janssen                                G. Jacobs
Vice Chairman of                          Chairman of
the Executive Committee                   the Executive Committee

Approval
August 3, 98
/signed/


<PAGE>



Between:

the UCB Corporation - Louizalaan 326 (box 7), 1050 Brussels, for these purposes
represented by the undersigned, hereinafter called "UCB",

and

Mr. Ben Van Assche
residing at Tisseltsesteenweg 110, 2660 Willebroek

hereinafter called "the second party",

the following has been agreed:

ARTICLE 1
UCB is taking the second party in its service in the capacity of Director of its
Southern European Region of its Pharma sector.

Second party shall perform his services at UCB or at its group companies.

Second party accepts with all transportation means assigned for such purpose, to
undertake trips and travel as are required for such service.

ARTICLE 2
This contract starts to run on September 1, 1985.

It is entered into for an unlimited period of time.

ARTICLE 3
As compensation for the services and obligations covered by this agreement, the
second party shall receive each month an amount of 150,000 Francs.

This gross compensation takes into account the coupling of compensations to the
consumer price index figures as applicable in June 1985.

In accordance with the regulation in effect at UCB, the second party shall be
entitled to a thirteenth month.

After deduction of the legal withholdings and of the contributions for group
insurance which the second party must join, the compensation shall be deposited
into the postal or bank account provided by the second party.

The second party shall keep the amount of his compensations fully confidential.

ARTICLE 4
When performing his services, the second party shall only consider the interests
of the company and without the prior written approval from UCB, shall have no
other profitable occupation, nor directly or indirectly engage in any trade or
business or provide his assistance in any manner hereto.


<PAGE>



ARTICLE5
The second party acknowledges that all possible results of activities, studies,
research or testing, among which are included inventions, manufacturing methods,
processes and improvements, performed during the execution of this function, are
the exclusive property of the Company to which he renders his services.

Only the Company shall have the right to own said results, or enjoy their
benefit and, if applicable, to take out a patent, without the second party being
able to claim any indemnity or special compensation as a result thereof.

ARTICLE 6
The second party shall not reveal, make public or divulge, either directly or
indirectly, the manufacturing and business secrets of which he has knowledge.
This shall include: processes, manufacturing skills and devices, plans, designs,
agreements, technical, commercial and accounting information and other.

Nor shall he engage in any deed of unfair competition or participate in it.

The abovementioned obligations shall not come to an end upon expiration of the
contract and shall continue to be binding to the second party, irrespective of
the reason of the end of employment.

ARTICLE 7
When this contract is terminated, the second party shall not compete with UCB or
its group companies, either by acting directly or indirectly for his own
account, or by joining another employer.

However, this commitment only relates to activities of a nature similar to the
ones that the second party has performed at UCB or its group companies during
the twelve months prior to his end of service; this commitment covers the
territory of the European Economic Community and is limited to a period of two
years, starting from the day when the employment agreement comes to an end.

In the event that the above commitment is violated, the second party shall owe
UCB a lump sum compensation equal to the gross compensation associated with an
activity for a period of twenty-four months.

ARTICLE 8
The going into effect of this contract is dependent on:
  1. submittal by the second party of a certificate of good conduct;
  2. the favorable outcome of a medical exam to be taken by the second
     party with a physician designated by UCB.

ARTICLE 9
Special terms and conditions:

1. Performance of the position of Director of the Southern European Region in
the Pharma sector assumes the payment of a contractual gratuity, after deduction
of the legal withholdings and of the contributions for the supplemental group
insurance, which the second party must join.

This contractual gratuity shall be calculated in such a way that, when adding
the employers' contributions for the supplemental group insurance, the total
arrives to 0.14% (fourteen hundredths of one per cent) of the profits of the UCB
company, determined as follows:

From the net profits as shown in the balance sheet are deducted all general
changes, financial charges and depreciations.
However, are added to the net profits, the depreciations made to the extent that
they exceed the fiscal allowable depreciations, the provisions or fiscal or
other reserves that are subjected to


<PAGE>



taxation, as well as the provisions for contractual gratuities and employer
contributions for the supplemental group insurance of the year in question
(excluding the thirteenth month).

UCB reserves the right to modify the percentage of the aforementioned profits if
the corporation's own capital (capital and reserves) would be increased by
external contributions, either by merger or by capital increase or in any other
way.

The contractual gratuity shall be provided starting with the 1985 service year,
after the General Meeting of Shareholders will approve the accounts for the year
in question. The first time it will be computed prorata temporis, taking into
account the date of employment of the second party, namely September 1, 1985.

2.   Taking into account the travel that the second party will have to
undertake as a result of his professional activities, UCB shall provide
him with a company car from the moment of his employment.

The terms associated therewith are explained in Attachment 1 to this contract.

Two sevenths of the expenses for this car, coinciding with the personal use by
the second party, shall be carried by him.

UCB reserves the right to review at a later date the terms and conditions of
availability of this car.

3. In the event that the second party would undertake compensated functions or
perform mandates with Belgian or foreign companies by delegation from UCB, he
shall, except as expressly stated otherwise in writing by UCV, return such
amount of the fixed or variable compensation to UCB which such company may have
awarded him.

4. In the event of deviation from the general rule for determining the age of 65
for retirement of male personnel, special provisions can be applied with respect
to Management Personnel. Those provisions are explained in Attachment 2 to this
contract.

Prepared in two copies, with each party stating that it has received its copy,
in Brussels, June 25, 1985.

Second Party                                          UBC

/S/ BEN VAN ASSCHE         /S/ P. DANOI-SUMELL        /S/ C. JACOBS
- ------------------         -------------------        -------------
Ben Van Assche             P. Dasnoi-Sumell           C. Jacobs
                           Manager of Personnel       General Manager
                                                      Pharma Sector

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.8
<SEQUENCE>16
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_8.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.8
<TEXT>
                                                                    Exhibit 10.8
                                            (Translated from Dutch into English)

 SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE


o    Staff Members and Delegated Administrators



         Cytec Surface Specialties S.A./N.V.








FORTIS EMPLOYEE BENEFITS,  E. Jacqmainlaan 53, B-1000 Brussel - Tel. +32(0)2 220
82 11 - Fax: +32(0)2 220 94 19 - http://www.fortisag.be

Fortis Employee  Benefits is part of Fortis AG s.a., E.  Jacqmainlaan 53, B-1000
Brussel- RPR  0404.494.849 - BTW : BE 404.494.849 - Firm  authorized  under code
no. 0079



<PAGE>



SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG
1.       TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.       Table of contents .................................................. 2
2.       Object ............................................................. 4
3.       Date the code goes into effect ..................................... 4
4.       Subscription ....................................................... 4
   4.1      Personnel to subscribe........................................... 4
   4.2      Subscription conditions ......................................... 4
   4.3      Moment of subscription .......................................... 4
   4.4      Suspension of the employment agreement before subscription....... 5
   4.5      Changing categories ............................................. 5
   4.6      Calculating the subscriber's age ................................ 5

5.       Pension date anticipated by the code ............................... 5
6.       Characteristics of the pension system .............................. 6
7.       Insurances provided by the employer ................................ 6
8.       Insurance transactions ............................................. 8
9.       Financing .......................................................... 8
    9.1     Modalities of premium payment ................................... 9
         9.1.1    Taxes on contributions and premiums ....................... 9
         9.1.2    Periodicity of the contributions and premiums.............. 9
         9.1.3    Contribution by the subscriber to the
                    financing of the insurances.............................. 9
         9.1.4    Failure to pay the contributions and premiums.............. 9
10.Annual recalculation of the premiums and benefits......................... 9
11.Acquired rights and minimum guarantee ....................................10
   11.1     Acquired benefits ...............................................10
   11.2     Acquired reserves................................................11
   11.3     Minimum guarantee................................................12
   11.4     Financing .......................................................12
12. Benefit payments.........................................................12
   12.1      Benefit payment method .........................................12
13.Termination of the employment agreement ..................................13
   13.1     Termination of the employment agreement as a consequence of
               early retirement..............................................13
   13.2     Termination of the employment agreement as a consequence
               of the conventional interim pension...........................13
   13.3     Termination of the employment agreement for a reason
               other than death, retirement or a conventional
                  interim pension ...........................................13
14. Particulars with respect to the employment agreement ....................14
   14.1     Part-time work ..................................................14
   14.2     Suspension of the employment agreement during the subscription ..14
15.Options offered to the subscribers .......................................15
   15.1     Reception structure  ............................................15
   15.2     Surrender .......................................................15
   15.3     Individual supplementary deposits................................15
   15.4     Advances ........................................................15
   15.5     Object of the advance............................................15
16.Introduction, modification or cancellation of the pension system .........16
   16.1     Decision authorization ..........................................16
         16.1.1   Principle .................................................16
         16.1.2   Restriction of the exclusive authorization
                    to introduce, modify or cancel the pension system........16
   16.2     Modifications of the pension system .............................16
   16.3     Changing pension agencies .......................................16
   16.4     Cancellation of the pension system ..............................16
   16.5     Discontinuation of the employer's activities ....................17
<PAGE>


SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG


 2.   OBJECT
 This code regulates the pension system of

 Cytec Surface Specialties S.A./N.V. Square Marie
 Curie 11 1070 Brussels


hereinafter  referred to as "the  employer" of the Staff  Members and  Delegated
Administrators.

The employer has entrusted  the  management of this code to an insurer with whom
it has  underwritten  a group  insurance.  The general  conditions of this group
insurance apply to this code.

This code is available to subscribers, who can obtain the text from the employer
by simple request.


3. DATE THE CODE GOES INTO EFFECT
The code goes into effect on March 1, 2005.


4. SUBSCRIPTION

4.1     Personnel to subscribe

Every  personnel  member with an employment  agreement of indefinite or definite
duration is required to subscribe to the pension  system,  with the exception of
personnel  members with

- -    an  agreement  of  definite  duration  signed  within the  framework  of an
     educational,  work placement or retraining program especially  organized by
     the government or supported by it;

- -    an agreement for employing  students,
     who are part of the Staff Member and Delegated Administrator category.

<PAGE>

4.2 Subscription conditions

The  subscription  for life  insurance goes into effect as soon as the personnel
member has reached the age of 25.


4.3 Moment of subscription

Employees  subscribe on the first day of the month  following the month in which
the  above-mentioned  conditions  were met or, if the conditions were met on the
first day of a month, on the first day of that month.


<PAGE>
SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG


4.4 Suspension of the employment agreement before subscription

If the  employment  agreement  of a  personnel  member  of  the  above-mentioned
category is suspended and the personnel  member no longer  receives pay from the
employer,  either at the time the pension  system goes into effect or at a later
date,  subscription  only commences on the date the employment  agreement is put
into effect again and insofar as the  personnel  member  meets the  subscription
conditions at that time.

4.5     Changing categories

If an affiliate leaves a category referred to in this code and continues working
for the employer, the following stipulations apply:

If the subscriber  transfers to a category not referred to in this code, he will
no longer benefit from the stipulations provided in this code, but will maintain
his  rights  to  the  benefit  insured  by the  employer  at  the  pension  date
anticipated in the framework of his former  category  limited,  however,  to the
amount stipulated on the first day of the month following the month in which the
category  was  assigned  or, if the  change  took  place on the first day of the
month, on the first day of that month.

If a subscriber  leaves a category not referred to in this code while continuing
to work for the employee and transferring to a different category referred to in
this code, he will benefit from a pension system  according to the  stipulations
typical for his new category.

The benefits  insured by the  employer in the  framework of the new category are
supplementary  to those that remain  insured in the  framework  of the  previous
category.

4.6 Calculating the age of subscribers

The age of subscribers is calculated in years and months.  For the  calculation,
it is assumed that the  subscriber  was born on the last day of the month he was
born in.


5. PENSION DATE ANTICIPATED BY THE CODE

The  anticipated  pension date is the 1st day of the month  following the one in
which the subscriber reaches the age of 60.

<PAGE>


SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG

6. CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PENSION SYSTEM

The  contributions  to be made by the  employer are  deposited in the  financing
fund. The financing fund is linked to an investment fund.

The premiums to be paid by the  subscribers  earn an interest rate for which the
duration of the insurance is defined in the management agreement.

The  reserves  are  managed  collectively  for  the  contributions  made  by the
employer.  The premiums  paid by the  subscriber  are deposited in an individual
account of the subscriber and managed individually.


7. INSURANCES PROVIDED BY THE EMPLOYER

A provision has been made for life insurance.

The life insurance is of the fixed benefits type.

FOR THE CATEGORY OF THE STAFF MEMBERS

a)   If the SUBSCRIBER is alive on the pension date anticipated,  he will be the
     recipient of a benefit equal to:

     (1.75 * S1 + 6.5 * S2) * n/35

     with a minimum of AS * n/35 + RW + K

     in   which

AS = the  annual  salary
     The  annual  salary is equal to 13 times the  gross  monthly  salary at the
     moment of subscription and later on March 1 of each year.

S  = the reference  salary necessary for calculation of the life insurance
     The reference salary is equal to the sum of the gross monthly salary,  plus
     the shift premiums and the thirteenth month at the time of subscription and
     later on March 1 of each year. The arithmetic  average of the 5 most recent
     reference salaries is taken into account.

     If the average reference salary (S), as defined above, is lower than 80% of
     the most recent annual salary (AS), the life insurance  shall be calculated
     on the basis of this percentage of 80% of the most recent annual salary.

     For those  subscribers with a work disability on the date the pension takes
     effect, the average of the five most recent annual salaries before the work
     disability  occurred  shall be taken into  account for  calculation  of the
     average reference salary (S).

S1 = the average  reference  salary (S),  limited to a fixed  ceiling equal to
     38,528.04 EUR on March 1, 2005.

     This ceiling is indexed  every year on March 1,  according to the evolution
     of the trigger index of wages that applies in the chemical sector.

S2 = the part of the average reference salary that exceeds S1.

<PAGE>

SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG

n  = subscription period

     The  subscription  period  is  equal to the  number  of  years  and  months
     calculated  from the date of  subscription  until the  anticipated  pension
     date.  For  those  subscribers  employed  on March 1,  2005,  the  years of
     subscription to the previous precautionary plan signed with the UC8 pension
     fund are also taken into account.

RW =existing  reduction value (including  profit sharing),  which corresponds to
the acquired reserves of the subscribers accumulated in an individual account in
the framework of the UCB pension plan on February 28, 2005.

K  = capital on the anticipated  pension date accumulated by the life deposits
     starting  March  1,  2005,  insofar  as this  is  deposited  in  individual
     accounts,  and if the occasion arises by the associated profit sharing.

b)   The life benefits insured in this code are equal to:

     (1.75 * S1 + 6.5 * S2) * n/35 - RW

     with a minimum of AS * n/35 + K

FOR THE DELEGATED  ADMINISTRATOR CATEGORY The life benefits insured in this code
are equal to:

     (5 * S1 + 15 * S2) * n/35 - RW

     in which

AS = the annual salary
     The annual salary is equal to 13 times the gross monthly salary at the date
     of subscription and later on March 1 of each year.

S  = the reference  salary necessary for calculation of the life insurance
     The reference salary is equal to the sum of the gross monthly salary,  plus
     the shift premiums and the thirteenth  month at the moment of  subscription
     and later on March 1 of each  year.  The  arithmetic  average of the 5 most
     recent reference salaries is taken into account.

     If the average reference salary (S), as defined above, is lower than 80% of
     the most recent annual salary (AS), the life insurance  shall be calculated
     on the basis of this percentage of 80% of the most recent annual salary.

     For those  subscribers with a work disability on the date the pension takes
     effect, the average of the five most recent annual salaries before the work
     disability  occurred  shall be taken into  account for  calculation  of the
     average reference salary (S).

S1 = the average  reference  salary (S),  limited to a fixed  ceiling equal to
     38,528.04 EUR on March 1, 2005. This ceiling is indexed every year on March
     1, according to the evolution of the trigger index of wages that applies in
     the chemical sector.

S2 = the part of the average reference salary that exceeds S1.

n  = subscription  period The  subscription  period is equal to the number of
     years  and  months  calculated  from the  date of  subscription  until  the
     anticipated pension date.

<PAGE>





SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG


     For those subscribers  employed on March 1, 2005, the years of subscription
     to the  previous  precautionary  plan signed with the UC8 pension  fund are
     also taken into account.

RW = existing reduction value (including profit sharing), which corresponds to
     the  acquired  reserves of the  subscribers  accumulated  in an  individual
     account in the framework of the UCB pension plan on February 28, 2005.

No  modification  of the  fixed  ceiling  may  result in  reduction  of the life
benefit.

Profit sharing related to the premiums paid for by the subscribers and deposited
beginning  March 1, 2005,  is included in the life  benefit.  This is taken into
account in financing the life insurance.

The increase in the reduction value as determined on February 28, 2005 ("RW") is
in addition to life benefit.

Allotting   fiscal   advantages  to  the  premiums  is  limited  by  the  fiscal
legislation.  When the occasion  arises,  life  benefit  shall be reduced to the
established  amount in order to take these limits into account.  If a payment in
interest is opted for, this can be  transferred  80% to the surviving  spouse or
the legal partner and indexed at 2% per year.

For staff members subscribing to the UCB plan before 12/31/2001 and younger than
60 on that  date,  the  above-mentioned  life  capital  is equal to the  capital
anticipated  for  retiring at 60  calculated  according to the code in effect on
12/31/2001.  This capital is adjusted in the event the employment  percentage is
changed.

The  above-mentioned  life capital minimum for service personnel  subscribing to
the UCB plan and  promoted to staff  member  after  12/31/2001,  is equal to the
capital  anticipated for retiring at 60 according to the code in applying to the
service  personnel,  and listed on the most  recent  information  card  received
before  promotion  to  staff  member.  This  capital  is  adjusted  in case  the
employment percentage is changed.


8. INSURANCE TRANSACTIONS

The life capital for the part of the life insurance that is financed by premiums
paid by the  subscriber  is  insured  by an  insurance  transaction  of the type
deferred capital without repayment.

The rates for the insurance  transactions  were  deposited by the insurer at the
Commission for Banking, Financing and Insurance.


9. FINANCING

The life  insurance  insured in this code is financed by the employer and by the
subscriber.

The financing  paid for by the employer is done by means of depositing  payments
in the  financing  fund.  The amount of the payments is set out in the financing
plan.

For the subscribers  employed on March 1, 2005, the reserves transferred related
to the contributions  deposited in the UCB pension fund for the years and months
of subscription to the UCB pension fund are also taken into account.

<PAGE>




SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG




The  financing  paid for by  subscribers  is made by  depositing  premiums in an
individual  account.  For the subscriber the annual amount of the premiums,  not
including taxes, equals: 0.50% S1 + 5% S2,

in which:

S1 = the reference  salary,  limited to a fixed ceiling equal to 38,528.04 EUR
     on March 1, 2005.  This ceiling is indexed every year on March 1, according
     to the evolution of the trigger index of wages that applies in the chemical
     sector.


S2 = the part of the reference salary that exceeds S1.

The premium to be paid by the subscriber is due in full,  even if it exceeds the
amount necessary to finance the life benefit.  In that case, the life benefit is
adapted to this.


9.1 Modalities of premium payment


9.1.1 TAXES ON CONTRIBUTIONS AND PREMIUMS
The employer  finances the taxes on the  contributions and on the premiums to be
paid by the subscriber.

9.1.2  PERIODICITY  OF THE  CONTRIBUTIONS  AND PREMIUMS
The periodicity of the payment of the  contributions is set out in the financing
plan.

The premiums to be paid by the  subscriber  can be paid monthly on a certain due
date.

9.1.3 CONTRIBUTION BY THE SUBSCRIBER TO THE FINANCING OF THE INSURANCES
Premiums to be paid by the subscriber are withheld  monthly by the employer from
the salary  starting the 1st month  following or coinciding  with the moment the
subscriber  has  completed  6  months  of  employment,  and no  sooner  than the
subscriber's 25th birthday.

9.1.4 FAILURE TO PAY THE  CONTRIBUTIONS  AND PREMIUMS
The employer shall notify every  subscriber of failure to pay the  contributions
and premiums to the insurer and of the  consequences  ensuing from this no later
than three months after the expiration date of the first unpaid  contribution or
premium.


10. ANNUAL  RECALCULATION OF THE PREMIUMS AND BENEFITS
The insurer  recalculates  the  premiums and benefits on March 1 of each year on
the basis of the data provided by the employer at that time.

Any modification  related to the family status, the category,  employment system
or any  other  modification  related  to the  insurances  shall  be  taken  into
consideration  on the 1st of the month that follows or  coincides  with the time
the modification took effect.


<PAGE>






 SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE            FORTIS AG

11. ACQUIRED RIGHTS AND MINIMUM GUARANTEE

11.1 Acquired benefits

 a)  If the  subscriber  leaves the  employer  and leaves  his  reserves  to the
     insurers without  changing the pension system,  he shall be entitled to the
     acquired  benefits at the anticipated  pension date,  corresponding  to the
     highest of the  following  amounts,  plus the reduction  value  increase as
     decided on February 28, 2005:

     1. the sum of:

     o    the reduction value  calculated in accordance with the stipulations in
          the   insurer's   general    conditions,    corresponding   with   the
          capitalization,  on the  anticipated  pension  date,  of  the  reserve
          accumulated  since  March  1,  2005 by the life  premiums  at the time
          employment  was  discontinued,  insofar  as these  were  deposited  in
          individual  accounts  and, if the occasion  arose,  by the  associated
          profit sharing;

     o    the existing reduction value (including profit sharing)  corresponding
          with  the  acquired  reserves  of the  subscribers  accumulated  in an
          individual  account  in the  framework  of the  UCB  pension  plan  on
          February 28, 2005 ("RW").

2.  the benefit to be considered for  calculation of the minimum  reserve as set
    out in legislation and codes applying to the supplementary pensions (applied
    to point 7a);

3.  the benefit  established in correspondence  with this code (point 7a) taking
    into account the data at the moment of the  calculation  and on the basis of
    the past years of subscription or employment as recognized by the code.

The duration of the non-benefit notice period is included for calculation of the
years of subscription or employment.


 b) The acquired  benefits  insured in this code  correspond with the difference
between:

     o    the acquired benefits as described in point 11.1 a;

     o    the  existing   reduction  value   (including   profit  sharing)  that
          corresponds with the acquired reserves of the subscribers  accumulated
          in an  individual  account in the framework of the UCB pension plan on
          February  28,  2005  ("RW"),  plus  any  possible  accumulation  after
          February 28, 2005.

The  subscriber  who subscribes for less than one year to this or another of the
employer's  pension system can only assert  acquired rights on the benefits that
correspond with the premiums he is due.


<PAGE>



SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG

11.2 Acquired reserves

 a)  The reserves  acquired by the subscriber are equal,  on the date employment
     is terminated,  to the highest of the following  amounts,  plus the reserve
     accumulated by life profit sharing allotted after February 28, 2008, to the
     subscribers' reserves accumulated in the framework of the UCB pension plan:

     1.   the sum of:

          o    the reserve  accumulated by the life premiums from March 1, 2005,
               insofar as these were  deposited in individual  accounts,  if the
               occasion  arose plus the reserve  accumulated  by the life profit
               sharing;

          o    the reserve accumulated by the life premiums before March 1, 2005
               (in the framework of the UCB pension plan), insofar as these were
               deposited in individual accounts;

     2.   the  reserve  taken into  account for the  calculation  of the minimum
          reserve as set out in the legislation  and  regulations  that apply to
          supplementary pensions (applied to point 11.1 a);

     3.   The sum of:

          o    the reserve  accumulated by the life premiums from March 1, 2005,
               insofar as these were  deposited in individual  accounts,  if the
               occasion  arose plus the reserve  accumulated  by the life profit
               sharing

          o    the reserve accumulated by the life premiums before March 1, 2005
               (in the framework of the UCB pension plan), insofar as these were
               deposited  in  individual  accounts;

          o    the current value of the benefits  referred to in points 11.1 a 2
               and 3 above,  calculated at the time  employment was  terminated,
               minus the sum of:

               o    the  reduction  value,  calculated  in  accordance  with the
                    stipulations   of   the   insurer's   general    conditions,
                    corresponding  with the  capitalization,  at the anticipated
                    pension date, of the reserve accumulated since March 1, 2005
                    by the life premiums at the time  employment was terminated,
                    insofar as these were deposited in individual  accounts and,
                    if the occasion arose, by the associated profit sharing;

               o    the existing reduction value (including profit sharing) that
                    corresponds  with the acquired  reserves of the  subscribers
                    accumulated in an individual account in the framework of the
                    UCB pension plan on February 28, 2005 ("RW").

b)   The acquired  reserves  insured in this code correspond with the highest of
     the following amounts:

     4.   the  reserve  accumulated  by the life  premiums  from  March 1, 2005,
          insofar  as  these  were  deposited  in  individual  accounts,  if the
          occasion  arose  plus  the  reserve  accumulated  by the  life  profit
          sharing;

     5.   the  reserve  taken into  account for the  calculation  of the minimum
          reserve  as  set  out in the  legislation  and  codes  that  apply  to
          supplementary pensions (applied to point 11.1 b);

     6.   the sum of:

          o    the reserve  accumulated by the life premiums from March 1, 2005,
               insofar as these were  deposited in individual  accounts,  if the
               occasion  arose plus the reserve  accumulated  by the life profit
               sharing;

<PAGE>



SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG

          o    the  current  value,   calculated  at  the  time  employment  was
               terminated, of the benefits referred to in point 11.1 b minus:

               o    the  reduction  value,  calculated  in  accordance  with the
                    stipulations   of   the   insurer's   general    conditions,
                    corresponding  with the  capitalization,  at the anticipated
                    pension date, of the reserve accumulated since March 1, 2005
                    by the life premiums at the time  employment was terminated,
                    insofar as these were deposited in individual  accounts and,
                    if the occasion arose, by the associated profit sharing.

11.3 Minimum guarantee

On the day  employment  is  terminated,  the amount of the acquired  reserves is
supplemented,   should  the  occasion  arise,  to  the  amounts   guaranteed  in
application  of the  legislation  and  codes  that  apply  to the  supplementary
pensions.

11.4 Financing

If,  at  the  time  employment  is  terminated,   the  accumulated   reserve  is
insufficient  to finance  the  acquired  reserves,  should the  occasion  arise,
supplemented to the amounts of the minimum guarantee, the employer shall provide
the necessary  financing.  If there are not enough funds in the  financing  fund
that cover no other  obligations  of the employer,  the employer shall deposit a
one-time additional premium.


12. BENEFIT PAYMENTS

The life benefit is payable to the subscriber if he is alive on the  anticipated
pension date.

If  the  subscriber  remains  in  the  employment  of  the  employer  after  the
anticipated pension date, he may demand payment of the benefits.

12.1 Benefit payment method

Subscribers  may demand payment of the benefits from the employer in the form of
capital or interest.

The method of  calculating  the interest is  stipulated in the  legislation  and
codes that apply to supplementary pensions. If the annual amount of the interest
is initially  lower or equal to 500 EUR (indexed),  the benefits are paid in the
form of paid capital.

The  employer  shall inform the  subscriber  two months  before the  anticipated
pension date or within the two weeks after being informed of early retirement of
the right to convert into  interest.  In case of the decease of the  subscriber,
the employer  shall  inform the  beneficiaries  of this option  within two weeks
after being informed of the death.

On  condition  of signing a  management  agreement  between the employer and the
insurer  and the  conditions  stipulated  in this  agreement,  the  employer  is
entitled to charge the insurer with implementation of his information obligation
and possible interest payment.


<PAGE>





SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG






13. TERMINATION OF THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

13.1  Termination  of  the  employment  agreement  as  a  consequence  of  early
retirement

If the employment  agreement is terminated as a consequence of early  retirement
by virtue of the July 20,  1990  legislation  related to flexible  pension  age,
payment of premiums stops in the month early  retirement  goes into effect.  The
insurer shall repay the employer the prorated premiums paid, if applicable.

The  subscriber  may either opt for  immediate  settlement  of the  benefits  he
acquired,   in  observation  of  the  legal  stipulations  that  apply,  or  for
maintaining the reduced life benefits until the anticipated pension date.

13.2   Termination  of  the  employment   agreement  as  a  consequence  of  the
conventional interim pension

If the employment  agreement is terminated as a consequence of the  conventional
interim  pension,  the premium payment is terminated on the 1st day of the month
in which the conventional interim retirement goes into effect. The insurer shall
repay the employer the prorated premiums paid, if applicable.

The subscriber  may opt for immediate  settlement of his acquired  reserves,  in
observation of the legal stipulations that apply, of for maintaining the reduced
life benefits until the anticipated pension date.

13.3  Terminating  the  employment  agreement  for a reason  other  than  death,
retirement or a conventional interim pension

If a  subscriber's  employment  agreement is terminated  for a reason other than
death, retirement or the subscriber's conventional interim pension, the employer
shall  pay the  premiums  until  the end of the  month in which  the  employment
agreement is terminated.

At that time, the life benefit is reduced.

At the time employment is terminated, subscribers are entitled to transfer their
acquired  reserves,  if the  occasion  arises  increased  to the  amounts of the
minimum  guarantee,  provided the terms stipulated in the general conditions are
observed.

If the  subscriber  does not inform the insurer in writing of his choice  within
thirty days, the acquired reserves continue to be insured with the latter,  with
no  modification  of the  pension  system and at the  amount of their  reduction
value,  calculated  according  to  the  stipulations  in the  insurer's  general
conditions.

If a subscriber opts for transfer, he can choose between:

     -   transfer to the pension agency of his new employer;

     -   transfer to a pension agency referred to in a royal decree with respect
         to the allotment of enhanced  advantages  for employees  referred to in
         royal decree no. 50 of October 24, 1967,  related to the retirement and
         survival pension for employees as extant at the insurer.

Transfer is limited to the part of the  reserves on which no advance or security
was  permitted,  or that was not  allotted in the  framework  of  reinstating  a
mortgage credit.









<PAGE>




SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE              FORTIS AG


The insurer  shall carry out the transfer  within the month  following  the one
when the subscriber gave notice.

 If a subscriber does not choose the option for transfer, he can:

               -    request  surrender  of  the  acquired   reserves,   possibly
                    increased  to the  amounts of the  minimum  guarantee.  This
                    right to surrender can only be exercised before  12/31/2009.
                    In this case, the subscription is terminated.

               -    opt for the reception structure.

Should the subscriber die within ninety days after terminating  employment,  and
insofar as he had not yet  informed  the  employer  in writing of his choice and
possible transfer had not yet taken place, benefits are paid that are at minimum
equal to the acquired reserves at the time employment was terminated.


14. PARTICULARS WITH RESPECT TO THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT

14.1 Part-time work

Personnel members working part time who meet  subscription  conditions enjoy the
same  benefits as  personnel  members  working  full time,  however  taking into
account the reduction in working hours.

Life  benefits  are  calculated  on the basis of the  reference  salary that the
subscriber  would receive if he were to work full time. The periods in which the
subscriber  works  part-time are  multiplied by the working hours  percentage to
calculate the subscription period.

For calculation of the premiums to be paid by the subscriber,  the percentage of
the  premium is applied to the  full-time  reference  salary and the amount thus
obtained is multiplied by the working hours percentage.

14.2 Suspension of the employment agreement during the subscription

Should the  subscriber's  employment  agreement be suspended in case of economic
disablement as a consequence of an illness or an accident,  employment  will not
be  interrupted.  The period of absence is taken into account in the calculation
of the life benefit.

If  suspension  of the  subscriber's  employment  agreement can be attributed to
disablement,  covered by an agreement  underwritten by the insurer that provides
for  exemption  of the  premium,  the  life  premium  payment  to be made by the
subscriber is made by the insurer  according to the  conditions set forth in the
agreement mentioned above.

If the subscriber's employment agreement is suspended,  the subscriber no longer
receives  a salary  from  the  employer  and the  suspension  of the  employment
agreement is not covered by an agreement  providing for exemption of the premium
in case of  disablement,  the  payment  to be made by the  subscriber  shall  be
suspended  from the month  following the one in which the employer paid the last
salary, the life benefit is reduced.

Payment of premiums is resumed and the life  insurance goes into effect again on
the month in which the subscriber receives his salary.




<PAGE>



SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG


15. OPTIONS OFFERED TO SUBSCRIBERS

15.1 Reception structure

The employer shall underwrite a reception structure with the insurer,  for which
the  latter  submitted  the  rates  to  the  Banking,  Financing  and  Insurance
Commission and which is intended to receive reserves of supplementary pensions


     -    accumulated  by the  subscriber  in the  framework of another  pension
          system;

     -    which the subscriber wants to transfer when terminating  employment if
          he does not continue to subscribe to the employer's pension system.

The  reception  structure  consists of an  insurance  while alive and in case of
death in the form of a deferred  capital  with  repayment  of the  reserve.  The
insured amount is received by capitalizing the amount transferred. The death and
life amounts are increased by the allotted life profit sharing.

Subscribers   retain  the  opportunity  to  request   transformation   of  their
transferred  reserve to another insurance  transaction.  The reception structure
may take on a different insurance form than the one proposed by the insurer. The
subscriber  can  later  select  one of the  options  offered  to him in case his
employment is terminated.

Should  the  subscriber  opt  for  transferring  his  acquired  reserves  to the
reception  structure  at the time his  employment  is  terminated,  the acquired
reserves,  if applicable added to the amount of the minimum guarantee,  shall be
made up  immediately.  This relieves the employer from any  obligation  stemming
from the pension code.

15.2 Surrender

Subscribers  are not permitted to surrender  their  reserves as long as they are
employed by the employer.

15.3 Individual supplementary deposits

The subscriber has the opportunity to deposit individual  supplementary premiums
in  accordance  with the  conditions  set by the  insurer.  These  premiums  are
allocated to an individual contract.

15.4 Advances

The subscriber can be given an advance on the benefits  financed by the premiums
to be paid by him in  accordance  with the  conditions  and  within  the  limits
established by the insurer.

He can also be given an  advance  on the  benefits  financed  by his  individual
supplementary  premiums in accordance  with the conditions and within the limits
established by the insurer.

15.5 Object of the advance

Advances may only be granted for the purpose of allowing the  subscriber to own,
acquire,  construct,  improve, repair or remodel real estate that yields taxable
income and which Belgian tax  legislation  has  stipulated as in its  territory.
Advances must be repaid as soon as the real estate referred is no longer part of
the subscriber's capital.

This stipulation does not apply to individual supplementary deposits.

<PAGE>



SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE             FORTIS AG



16. INTRODUCTION, MODIFICATION OR CANCELLATION OF THE PENSION SYSTEM

16.1 Decision authorization


16.1.1 PRINCIPLE

The employer has the exclusive authorization to introduce,  modify or cancel the
pension system.

16.1.2   RESTRICTION OF THE EXCLUSIVE AUTHORIZATION TO INTRODUCE, MODIFY
         OR CANCEL THE PENSION SYSTEM

If the  pension  system  anticipates,  at its  introduction  or later,  that the
employee will  personally  contribute to its financing and the system applies to
all  employees,  the  authorization  is shared and the decision shall be made to
introduce, modify or cancel it:

     -    for a collective  employment  agreement if there is a works council, a
          committee  for  prevention  and  protection  on  the  job  or a  union
          representation at the employer's;

     -    in any other cases, due to modification of the employment code.

The employer  reserves the right to modify the pension  system or even cancel it
if the  economic,  financial  or social  conditions  of his firm or  institution
justify  this.  Modification  or  cancellation  occurs  in  observation  of  the
legislation and codes that apply to the supplementary pensions.

16.2 Modification of the pension system

Every  modification  of the  pension  system  that  causes  an  increase  in the
obligations  of the subscriber  shall relieve  subscribers,  upon request,  from
participating in the  modification of the system,  except if this was introduced
by means  of a  collective  employment  agreement  that  does  not  provide  the
opportunity  to refuse  subscription.  The subscriber who exercises his right of
refusal  remains   subscribed  to  the  pension  system  in  effect  before  the
modification.

A modification cannot in any case result in a reduction of the acquired benefits
or reserves.

All modifications in the pension system are set out in a supplement to the code.

16.3   Changing pension agencies

In case of changing pension  agencies and of possible  transfer of the reserves,
the  employer  shall  inform the  subscribers  and the  Banking,  Financing  and
Insurance  Commission  in advance.  These  parties can object to the transfer if
this could jeopardize the insurer's equilibrium.

This transfer is subject to the procedures provided in the legislation and codes
that apply to supplementary pensions.

16.4   Cancellation of the pension system

If the  pension  system is  terminated,  the  employer  shall  stop  paying  the
contributions and premiums.

At the moment of cancellation,  the acquired rights are calculated in accordance
with the stipulations of the "Acquired rights and minimum guarantee" heading.

<PAGE>



SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION FOR COLLECTIVE LIFE MANAGEMENT CODE              FORTIS AG

If the capital of the  financing  fund is  sufficient  to finance  the  acquired
reserves, if applicable supplemented to the amount of the minimum guarantee, the
necessary  reserves are made up. Any possible  balance of the financing  fund is
settled in accordance with the insurer's general conditions.

If the capital of the  financing  fund is  insufficient  to finance the acquired
reserves,  if applicable  supplemented  to the amount of the minimum  guarantee,
this capital is distributed for every subscriber in proportion to the difference
between his total acquired reserve, if applicable  supplemented to the amount of
the minimum guarantee,  and the reserve of his individual  accounts and the sum,
for all  subscribers,  of those  differences.  The  employer  shall  pay the sum
required to finance the acquired reserves.

Cancellation of the pension system is set out in a supplement to the code.

16.5 Discontinuation of the employer's activities

Should the employer  discontinue  its activities  and another  employer does not
assume its  obligations,  the pension  system is  cancelled.  In that case,  the
stipulations in the "canceling the pension system" heading and the  "terminating
the contract in a way other than by death or retirement" heading apply.

Drawn up in Brussels on November 24, 2005





(Employer's signature)





/s/ Shane D. Fleming

SHANE D. FLEMING
President of Cytec Specialty Chemicals
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.9
<SEQUENCE>17
<FILENAME>a5083158ex10_9.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.9
<TEXT>



                                                        Exhibit 10.9

                                        (Translated from Dutch into English)

                                        GROUP INSURANCE PRECAUTIONARY PLAN

                                                Special stipulations



                                                        registered to




                                                CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV









        Precautionary plan no. 07.3705
        Drawn up on: 08.08.2005






















                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389


<PAGE>
                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN






NAME OF THE FIRM


CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV

Anderlechtstraat 133
1620 DROGENBOS




PRECAUTIONARY PLAN NO.

07.3705


INITIATION DATE


March 1, 2005


AGENCY

This precautionary plan replaces the plan in effect on December 31, 2004 for the
members of the Executive Committee of NV SURFACE SPECIALTIES (07.3571).

Failing any written notice to the contrary from the subscriber, the previously
existing clauses that modify any benefit allotment also apply to the employer
contribution contract in this plan.

Any contracts ensuing from this plan shall serve, if necessary, as a guarantee
of possible policy advances allotted by the company on the previously existing
contracts.


SUBSCRIBER CATEGORY

Members of the Executive Committee of CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE refers to the committee that directs the Group and sees to
proper functioning of the current management. It consists of the CEO and the
General Directors.

CEO refers to each person appointed as delegated administrator.










AXA-BB                                                                      2/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN





SUBSCRIPTION CONDITIONS

Whatever the conditions stipulated below may be, they cannot have the result of
postponing subscription until after the person to be insured reaches the age of
25.

- -    subscribers must be employed by the company at the time this plan takes
     effect or later, on the basis of an employment agreement signed for a
     definite or indefinite duration and must hold a mandate as a member of the
     Executive Committee in the company.

Subscription goes into effect starting on the first day of the month following
the one in which the subscription conditions are met and not before this
precautionary plan is initiated.












AXA-BB                                                                      3/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN







DESCRIPTION OF THE PLAN
- -----------------------


1 - PREMIUMS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


1.1. DESCRIPTION OF THE PREMIUMS

- -    THE ANNUAL EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTION TO THE PENSION to be paid by the company
     is x % x PAS x coefficient

     in which

     THE PENSIONABLE ANNUAL SALARY (PAS) refers to:


FOR THE EMPLOYEES:
- ------------------

- -    if a subscriber performs effectively for 12 months during the year that
     serves as the calculation base: PAS refers to the subscriber's gross basic
     monthly salary in the month of December of the year preceding the year of
     payment of the employer contribution, calculated on the basis of full-time
     employment and with exclusion of any variable salary, bonuses, fixed
     compensation or any other supplementary advantage, multiplied by 12, plus
     the amount of the thirteenth month paid in December of the relevant year
     that serves as the calculation base and of the double vacation bonus paid
     during that same year; plus all administrator premiums received during the
     same year that serves as the calculation base for a mandate in a company of
     the Group;

- -    if a subscriber does not perform effectively for 12 months during the year
     that serves as the calculation base (e.g. in case of leaving the company)
     PAS refers to: the base salary of the most recent complete month of
     subscription and performed during the year that serves as calculation base
     calculated on the basis of full-time employment and with exclusion of any
     variable salary, bonuses, fixed compensation or any other supplementary
     advantage, multiplied by the number of months performed effectively, plus
     the amount of the thirteenth month paid, if the occasion arises prorated
     during the relevant year that serves as the calculation base and of the
     amount paid as double vacation bonus during that same year; plus all
     administrator premiums received for a mandate in a company of the Group
     with offices abroad;

- -    if subscription to this plan commences during the course of a year, the
     first employer contribution shall be deposited in March of the next year
     and shall be calculated on the basis of the calculated pensionable annual
     salary as stipulated above, with the understanding that only the salaries
     paid for the position held as subscriber are taken into consideration
     (meaning from the time of subscription to the plan). The result of this is
     that the salary of the most recent complete month of the subscription and
     performed during the year that serves as the calculation base shall be
     taken into consideration and multiplied by the number of months in
     employment during the year that serves as calculation base;

- -    in case of early retirement or starting at a time the subscriber no longer
     meets the subscription conditions during the course of the year, the
     pensionable annual salary that is taken into consideration shall be
     calculated in proportion to the actual performance delivered;

- -    moreover, the reference salary, under any assumption, shall be adopted if
     the occasion arises



AXA-BB                                                                      4/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN


     for those subscribers who work part-time during the year that serves as
     calculation base, depending on the part-time factor in effect in the year
     that serves as calculation base. The part-time factor is equal to the
     fraction, with the nominator representing the actually performed employment
     system (meaning x % of full-time employment) and the denominator
     representing the full-time employment system.


FOR INDEPENDENT EMPLOYEES:
- --------------------------

- -    PAS means the subscriber's gross monthly salary as decided by the company's
     representative in the framework of the mandate practiced or, if the
     occasion arises, decided in the service provision agreement signed with the
     company and in effect in December of the year preceding the year of payment
     of the employer contribution deposited by the company, with the exclusion
     of every variable salary, bonuses, fixed compensation or any other
     supplementary advantage, multiplied by 12, plus all administrator premiums
     received during the year that serves as calculation base for a mandate in a
     Group company. If the salary of the subscriber-independent employee is
     established and/or expressed on an annual basis, this annual amount is
     divided by 12 to obtain the amount of the gross monthly salary for the
     month of December;

- -    If subscription to this plan commences during the course of a year, the
     first employer contribution shall be deposited in March of the next year
     and shall be calculated on the basis of the calculated pensionable annual
     salary as stipulated above, with the understanding that only the salaries
     paid for the position held as subscriber are taken into consideration
     (meaning from the time of subscription to the plan). The result of this is
     that the salary of the most recent complete month of the subscription and
     performed during the year that serves as the calculation base shall be
     taken into consideration and multiplied by the number of months of
     effective performance during the year that serves as calculation base;

- -    in case of leaving the company or starting at the time the subscriber no
     longer meets the subscription conditions during the course of the year, the
     pensionable annual salary that is taken into consideration shall be
     calculated in proportion to the actual performance delivered.


FOR THE INSURED PARTIES AND FOREIGN EMPLOYEES:
- ----------------------------------------------

- -    who work simultaneously in the territory of different nations and who
     are/remain subscribers to the code, the pensionable annual salary during
     the period of their multiple employment is equal to the pensionable annual
     salary to be paid by the company as stipulated above; plus any other basic
     salary (gross base salary actually received for employment as employee
     and/or independent party in one or more Group companies), with the
     exclusion of all variable salaries, bonuses, fixed compensation,
     compensation typical for the employer or all other supplementary
     advantages.






AXA-BB                                                                      5/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN



     Moreover, the stipulations that apply to part-time working subscribers
     shall apply in the framework of this article.

     in which

     CONTRACT means:

     FOR EMPLOYEES: the employment agreement

     FOR INDEPENDENT EMPLOYEES: the service provision agreement signed with the
     company

     The "X" percentage and the coefficient are stipulated in the supplements to
     this precautionary plan.

     This premium reinforces the employer contribution contract "F".

- -    LIMIT OF THE ANNUAL PENSION PREMIUM
     -----------------------------------

     The annual employer contribution to the pension may not insure "pension"
     payments in any case that exceeds the one stipulated in article 16 of the
     general stipulations entitled "Limit of the "pension benefits": fiscal
     rule".

     In case this limit is exceeded, the employer contribution shall be limited.

- -    THE ANNUAL EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTION TO THE CAPITAL PAID OUT UPON DECEASE to be
     paid by the company is the total annual premium required to insure this
     capital, defined in point 2.3.


     This premium reinforces the employer contribution contract "M".



1.2. PAYMENT AND CALCULATION OF THE PREMIUMS

The annual premiums of the year N stipulated above are deposited by the company
during the first eight days of the month of March in year N + 1; they are
augmented by all current or future taxes on the insurance premiums.














AXA-BB                                                                      6/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN




In case the extent of the subscriber's employment changes, the company shall
immediately notify the insurance company of this fact and inform it of the new
premiums that must be taken into consideration starting the first day of the
month in which the modification took place.

1.3. UPDATING DATE

On March 1 of every year.


2 - INSURANCE CONTRACTS AND SUBSCRIBER BENEFITS
- -----------------------------------------------

2.1. INSURANCE COMBINATION

- -    Contract "F" is issued in the insurance combination "Deferred capital with
     repayment of the savings balance" (UKMS) which provides the payment of a
     capital if the subscriber is alive on the expiration date or a capital
     equal to the theoretical surrender value in case of decease before that
     expiration date.

- -    Since the contract is reinforced according to the method of successive
     purchase prices, the guarantees will evolve in function of the amount of
     the premiums deposited and of the rates in effect at the time of their
     maturity date.

- -    On January 1, 2005, the rate applied to contract "F" includes a technical
     interest rate of 3.25%. Every possible modification of the rate shall be
     activated in a supplement to the current special stipulations.


- -    The "M" contract is issued in the insurance combination "Temporary
     insurance with a duration of 1 year", which provides payment of a capital
     in case of the subscriber's decease if this took place during the duration
     of the contract.

     If the subscriber is alive at the expiration date of the contract, this
     contract is terminated and all premiums deposited shall remain the property
     of the insurance company as the price of the risk it has covered.


2.2. EXPIRATION OF CONTRACTS

Expiration of the "F" contract is set down as the time the subscriber turns 65.

The "M" contract is annually renewable until the subscriber turns 65.

2.3. DESCRIPTION OF THE CAPITAL TO BE PAID UPON DECEASE

The capital to be paid upon decease insured by the "M" contract is:

1 x PAS

in which PAS is the pensionable annual salary as stipulated in point 1.1.







AXA-BB                                                                      7/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN


The above-stipulated capital to be paid upon decease is reduced by the capital
to be paid upon decease insured by the "F" contract and the profit sharing
payable upon decease. The capital to be paid upon decease thus determined forms
the capital insured by the "M" contract.

2.4. ANNUAL UPDATING OF THE LIFE INSURANCE

The coverage "upon decease" and the corresponding premiums are calculated once
per year by the insurance company on the updating date set down in point 1.3.,
on the basis of the modifications that were made in the subscriber's salary.

For this purpose, the company shall give the insurance company the necessary
information, no later than the annual updating.

Moreover, in case the subscriber's extent of employment changes, the company
shall immediately inform the insurance company of this fact, which shall
correspondingly recalculate the capital to be paid upon decease with the first
day of the month of the event as the initiation date.

2.4. ANNUAL UPDATING OF THE LIFE INSURANCE

The coverage "upon decease" and the corresponding premiums are calculated once
per year by the insurance company on the updating date set down in point 1.3.,
on the basis of the modifications that were made in the subscriber's salary.

For this purpose, the company shall give the insurance company the necessary
information, no later than the annual updating.

The insurance company must be informed by the company of every change in the
subscriber's family situation that may have an effect on the sums to be
guaranteed; the insurance shall adapt the contract correspondingly with the
first day of the month of the event as the initiation date.

Moreover, in case the subscriber's extent of employment changes, the company
shall immediately inform the insurance company of this fact, which shall
correspondingly recalculate the capital to be paid upon decease with the first
day of the month of the event as the initiation date.


3 - ACQUIRED RESERVES AND BENEFITS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

3.1. DURING THE COURSE OF THE CONTRACT FOR SUBSCRIBERS HOLDING A POSITION WITH
     THE COMPANY

The subscriber acquires the accumulated reserves and the corresponding benefits
in the "F" contract, as well as the associated profit sharing allotted.







AXA-BB                                                                      8/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN


3.2. IF THE SUBSCRIBER LEAVES THE COMPANY, IF HE RETIRES OR IF HE REACHES THE
     AGE OF 65, AS WELL AS IF THIS PLAN IS CANCELLED

On that date, the subscriber is entitled to the highest of the following
amounts:

- -    the acquired reserves stipulated above

     and

- -    for the "F" contract: the reserve constituted by the capitalization, up to
     the date of leaving, at the technical reference rate minus 0.50% of the
     premiums deposited in the contract account since its initiation and minus
     5% to cover the costs.

     However, if the subscriber is leaving the company, his retirement or
     cancellation of this plan occurs within the first 5 years after subscribing
     to the plan, the capitalization of the employer contribution for the
     pension provided for this shall be replaced, insofar this results in a
     secondary payment, by an indexed amount of this on the basis of the index
     rate of consumer prices of wages, salaries, pensions, bonuses and subsidies
     in correspondence with the August 2, 1971 Act.

"Technical interest rate" refers to the maximum technical interest rate
mentioned in article 24 ss. 1 of the April 28, 2003 act related to the
supplementary pensions. This rate was fixed at 3.75% on 01.01.2004.

The stipulations in this point do not apply to any subscriber holding his
position after extending his contract after he turns 65.

3.3. DURING THE COURSE OF THE CONTRACT FOR SUBSCRIBERS WHO HAVE RETAINED THEIR
     ACQUIRED RESERVES IN THE CURRENT PLAN AFTER LEAVING THE COMPANY

In the course of the contract, the subscriber is entitled to the highest of the
following amounts after leaving the company:

- -    the accumulated reserves and corresponding benefits in the "F" contract as
     well as the associated profit sharing allotted.

and

- -    For the "F" contract: the reserve accumulated by means of capitalization
     (or indexing) of the premiums as stipulated above in point 3.2, frozen on
     the date the subscriber left the company.

3.4. FINANCING OF THE MINIMUM RESERVES TO BE ACCUMULATED

Each year the insurance company shall compare the minimum reserves to be
accumulated by capitalization of the premiums as stipulated above in point 3.2
to the reserves accumulated on the same date by the "F" contract, as well as the
associated profit sharing allotted.








AXA-BB                                                                      9/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN


This comparison is made for each subscriber to the plan, to wit for the
subscriber holding a position in the company and for a person who opted to
retain his reserves in the plan after leaving the company. The insurance company
shall take every subscriber showing a demonstrable deficit between the minimum
reserves to be accumulated and the reserves already formed on his contacts into
account in determining the financing of the minimum reserves to be accumulated.
The sum of all these deficits must be covered by the financing fund. In case the
assets of this fund are not sufficient to guarantee this coverage, the company
shall make good this deficit by depositing the contribution claimed by the
insurance company.

3.5. ALLOTMENT OF ACQUIRED MINIMUM RESERVES ON THE CONTRACT

When settling the contract, either because of retirement of the subscriber or as
a consequence of his decision to no longer keep his reserves in the current plan
after leaving the company, the insurance company shall draw from the financing
fund the possible premium necessary to make good the deficit of the coverages
accumulated on the contract, if the occasion arises, with respect to the total
of the acquired minimum reserves, as stipulated in point 3.2.

In case the fund is insufficiently reinforced, the premium shall be claimed from
the company.

The same shall apply in case the contracts are extended when the subscriber
continues to hold his position at the company after turning 65 (conform point 6
below for this).

Moreover, in case the plan is cancelled, the insurance company shall also
proceed with withholding from the financing fund according to the same procedure
described above.

In case the company goes bankrupt and if the assets of the fund are
insufficient, the deficit shall be made good in proportion to the acquired
minimum reserves of the subscriber.


4 - PROFIT SHARING
- ------------------

According to the modalities defined in the insurance company's profit sharing
plan, sharing the profits is allotted as follows:

- -    for the "F" and "M" contracts and for the pension contracts for
     reconstitution of a mortgage loan according to the code of the general fund
     of Life transactions in branch 21.










AXA-BB                                                                     10/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389


<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN




5 - PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a subscriber to the Group did not deliver any full-time performances during
the entire year that serves as the calculation base (year N), the annual
employer contribution is calculated in the knowledge that the pensionable annual
salary (PAS) in that case corresponds to the pensionable annual part-time
employment salary (PAPES). If the subscriber was employed full-time during the
(entire) month of December of the year that serves as the calculation base, his
gross monthly salary as a member of the Executive Committee (with exclusion of
every variable salary, bonus, fixed compensation or all other supplementary
advantages) for the month of December shall be taken into consideration and
multiplied by 12 and subsequently applied on the basis of the part-time factor
in effect during the course of the year (e.g.: part-time (50%) from January to
September and full-time from October to the end of December: the part-time
factor is 7.5/12).

If the subscriber was employed part-time during the (entire) month of December
of the year that serves as the calculation base, his gross monthly salary as a
member of the Executive Committee (with exclusion of every variable salary,
bonus, fixed compensation or all other supplementary advantages) for the month
of December is first recalculated on the basis of a fictitious and hypothetical
full-time (by multiplying the actual base salary by 100% and dividing it by the
percentage of actual employment), subsequently multiplied by 12 and finally
adapted depending on the part-time factor in effect during the course of the
year.


6 - THE SUBSCRIBER WHO CONTINUES TO HOLD HIS POSITION AFTER REACHING THE AGE
THAT CORRESPONDS TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE CONTRACT
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If a subscriber continues to hold his position in the company after reaching the
age stipulated as expiration of the contract, the capitals of the expired
contract while the subscriber is alive shall be deposited as inventory
purchasing sums in a new contract issued in the insurance combination "Deferred
capital with repayment of the savings balance" (UKMS), for which the expiration
date when the subscriber reaches the age of 70 has been decided.

The UKMS combination provides payment of a capital if the subscriber is alive at
the expiration date or a capital equal to the theoretical surrender value in
case of the subscriber's decease before that expiration date.

This contract shall be further reinforced by the employer contributions
stipulated in point 1.1.

The capital to pay out upon decease is calculated every year depending on the
new expiration date of the pension contracts.


7 - SUBSCRIBER LEAVING THE COMPANY
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The company shall immediately notify the insurance company of any subscriber
leaving the company.

If the subscriber opts for maintaining his acquired reserves at the insurance
company, either in the current plan or in the "Reception structure" plan
(conform article 14 of the general stipulations), he can continue to pay a
premium, which amount is equal to, at maximum, the premiums deposited on
contracts "F" and "M" at the time he leaves the company. This premium shall
reinforce a "personal" contract issued in the insurance combination selected by
the subscriber.





AXA-BB                                                                     11/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>


                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN



Furthermore, if the reserves remain in the current plan, the subscriber can
obtain surrender of the contracts from the time he reaches age 60. The request
for surrender must be made to the insurance company by the subscriber 6 months
before the desired surrender date. This 6-month period does not apply in case of
early retirement.

The "M" contract expires at the time when the subscriber stops holding his
position at the company or on the date the group insurance is discontinued.

Moreover, if the subscriber has opted for transfer of his reserves in the
"Reception structure" plan, he is also given various options in accordance with
the conditions of that plan.

On the other hand, in case the subscriber leaves the company during the course
of the insurance year, the part of the annual "pension" premiums that have not
matured shall be retained on the contract "F" of the subscriber in proportion to
the number of months between the first day of the month the subscriber leaves
the company and the first day of the month of the following annual update.

In case the employment agreement is severed with payment of a compensating
notice indemnity, the company shall deposit an employer contribution at the time
the subscriber leaves the company equal to the most recent employer contribution
(paid in March, before the date the agreement was severed, starting immediately
and with payment of a compensating notice indemnity), divided by 12 and
multiplied by the number of months covered by the severance indemnity. This
employer contribution shall be deposited at the time the subscriber leaves the
company. Moreover, the company shall pay an employer contribution to the benefit
of the subscriber with respect to the year in which the employment agreement is
severed, calculated pro rata temporis for the number of months of effective
performance during the year that serves as the calculation base.

Conversely, the part of the non-matured annual life insurance premium is removed
from the "M" contact and paid back to the company.


8 - SPECIAL STIPULATIONS RELATED TO THE SITUATIONS OF INTERNATIONAL
EMPLOYMENT
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


This article applies to:

under the same conditions, the subscribers who are simultaneously employed in
the territory of different nations, meaning the subscribers in view of the code
who must partially exercise their professional activity at the company and
partially at another company belonging to the Group.

The subscribers and foreign employees who are simultaneously employed in the
territory of different nations and who remain or shall become subscribers to the
code insofar as they are or remain subject to Belgian social security.





AXA-BB                                                                     12/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>


                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN




GENERAL STIPULATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Edition 30001N-04.2004


The stipulations cited in this document apply insofar as this document is signed
and returned to the insurance company within 2 months after being drawn up. The
insurance company reserves the right to review these stipulations as soon as
this term has been exceeded.

     Drawn up in two copies in WATERMAAL-BOSVOORDE, on August 8, 2005.


The company                                         AXA Belgium
CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV
(Name and position of the undersigned)

/s/ Shane Fleming
Shane Fleming
President of Cytec Surface Specialties NV


                                                    /s/ Deborah LENVAIN
                                                    Deborah LENVAIN Team Manager






AXA-BB                                                                     13/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN



                             TRANSITION STIPULATIONS
                             -----------------------





- -    The following stipulations apply to personnel members who were subscribers
     to the group insurance for members of the Executive Committee of NV SURFACE
     SPECIALTIES (07.3571) on December 31, 2004:


1)   The mathematical reserve of the "F" employer contribution contract
     accumulated on December 31, 2004, is deposited as inventory purchasing sum
     on the "F" contract that ensues from the current precautionary plan.

2)   The profit shares of the "F" employer contribution contract acquired on
     December 31, 2004 are also deposited on this new "F" contract.

3)   The text in point 7 "Subscribers leaving the company" is supplemented by
     the following:

     Until December 31, 2009 subscribers have the option of requesting
     settlements of their contracts before they reach the age of 60.


4)   The first deposit related to the performance of the employer contribution
     while the subscriber is alive is made in March 2006, on the basis of the
     pensionable annual salary of 2005 (or, if applicable, pro rata) and of the
     results and accounts of the company in 2005.








AXA-BB                                                                     14/15

                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389


<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN


                                                                   Supplement 1
                                                                   ------------


X    = depends on the level of the subscriber in the company and amounts to:

          50%  for the level of positions held by the members of the Executive
               Committee other than the position of the CEO


The coefficient depends on the ratio "CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current
result before taxes/ CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before budgeted
taxes", in the knowledge that:

1)   if the ratio between the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before
     taxes and the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before budgeted
     taxes equals 100% (meaning that the actual result has reached the number of
     the budgeted result), the coefficient is equal to 1;

2)   if the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before taxes differs no
     more than 10% from the budgeted result (in other words the ratio is between
     90 and 110%), the coefficient of 1 shall be adapted proportionally (for
     example: if the ratio is 90%, a coefficient of 0.9 shall be applied, if the
     ratio is 110%, a coefficient of 1.1 shall be applied, if the ratio is 95%,
     a coefficient of 0.95 shall be applied, etc.)

3)   if the ratio of CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before taxes
     and the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before budgeted taxes
     is higher than 110% (meaning the actual result is at least 10% higher than
     the budgeted result), the coefficient shall be determined as follows:

                  if 111%               =>              coefficient of 1.12
                  if 115%               =>              coefficient of 1.18
                  if 120%               =>              coefficient of 1.26
                  if 125%               =>              coefficient of 1.34
                  if 130%               =>              coefficient of 1.43
                  if 135%               =>              coefficient of 1.51
                  if 140%               =>              coefficient of 1.59
                  if 145%               =>              coefficient of 1.67
                  if 150%               =>              coefficient of 1.75
                  if more than 150%     =>              coefficient of 2


     In the knowledge that if the ratio between the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV
     current result before taxes and the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current
     result before budgeted taxes is situated between the two percentages of the
     table above, the coefficient is determined on the basis of the coefficient
     right below it, increased by application of a progressive "interpolation".




                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>

                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN





4)   if the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before taxes and the
     CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before budgeted taxes is lower
     than 90% (meaning that the actual result is less than 90% of the budgeted
     result), the coefficient shall be determined as follows:

                  if 89%                =>              coefficient of 0.87
                  if 85%                =>              coefficient of 0.77
                  if 80%                =>              coefficient of 0.63
                  if 75%                =>              coefficient of 0.50
                  if less than 75 %     =>              coefficient of 0.10
                  if less than 50 %     =>              coefficient of 0.05

     In the knowledge that if the ratio between the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV
     current result before taxes and the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current
     result before budgeted taxes is situated between the two percentages of the
     table above, the coefficient is determined on the basis of the coefficient
     right below it, increased by application of a progressive "interpolation".

     The percentage of the ratio between the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV result
     before taxes and the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV result before budgeted
     taxes is announced by the Company on the date of annual updating.









                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389

<PAGE>


                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN


                                                                   Supplement 2
                                                                   ------------





X    = depends on the level of the subscriber in the company and amounts to:

          100  % for the level of the position of CEO


The coefficient depends on the ratio "CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current
result before taxes/ CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before budgeted
taxes", in the knowledge that:


if the ratio between the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before
taxes and the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before budgeted taxes
equals 100% (meaning that the actual result has reached the number of the
budgeted result), the coefficient is equal to 1;

1)   if the ratio between the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before
     taxes and the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before budgeted
     taxes equals 100% (meaning that the actual result has reached the number of
     the budgeted result), the coefficient is equal to 1;

2)   if the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before taxes differs no
     more than 10% from the budgeted result (in other words the ratio is between
     90 and 110%), the coefficient of 1 shall be adapted proportionally (for
     example: if the ratio is 90%, a coefficient of 0.9 shall be applied, if the
     ratio is 110%, a coefficient of 1.1 shall be applied, if the ratio is 95%,
     a coefficient of 0.95 shall be applied, etc.)

3)   if the ratio of CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before taxes
     and the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before budgeted taxes
     is higher than 110% (meaning the actual result is at least 10% higher than
     the budgeted result), the coefficient shall be determined as follows:

                  if 111%               =>              coefficient of 1.12
                  if 115%               =>              coefficient of 1.18
                  if 120%               =>              coefficient of 1.26
                  if 125%               =>              coefficient of 1.34
                  if 130%               =>              coefficient of 1.43
                  if 135%               =>              coefficient of 1.51
                  if 140%               =>              coefficient of 1.59
                  if 145%               =>              coefficient of 1.67
                  if 150%               =>              coefficient of 1.75
                  if more than 150%     =>              coefficient of 2


     In the knowledge that if the ratio between the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV
     current result before taxes and the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current
     result before budgeted taxes is situated between the two percentages of the
     table above, the coefficient is determined on the basis of the coefficient
     right below it, increased by application of a progressive "interpolation".





                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389


<PAGE>


                                                                GROUP INSURANCE

                                                             PRECAUTIONARY PLAN





4)   if the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before taxes and the
     CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current result before budgeted taxes is lower
     than 90% (meaning that the actual result is less than 90% of the budgeted
     result), the coefficient shall be determined as follows:

                  if 89%                =>              coefficient of 0.87
                  if 85%                =>              coefficient of 0.77
                  if 80%                =>              coefficient of 0.63
                  if 75%                =>              coefficient of 0.50
                  if less than 75%      =>              coefficient of 0.10
                  if less than 50%      =>              coefficient of 0.05

     In the knowledge that if the ratio between the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV
     current result before taxes and the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV current
     result before budgeted taxes is situated between the two percentages of the
     table above, the coefficient is determined on the basis of the coefficient
     right below it, increased by application of a progressive "interpolation".

     The percentage of the ratio between the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV result
     before taxes and the CYTEC SURFACE SPECIALTIES NV result before budgeted
     taxes is announced by the Company on the date of annual updating.













                                 AXA Belgium, NV
authorized for insurance business under no. 0039 (KB 04-07-1979, BS 14-07-1979)
              Company headquarters Vorsttaan 25 - B-1170 Brussels o
                      Phone: 02/678 61 11 Fax: 02/678 93 40
           Internet: www.axa.beo BTW BE 404 483 367 - HRB no. 356 389
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>18
<FILENAME>a5083158ex12.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 12
<TEXT>
                                                                      Exhibit 12
                                                                      ----------

                              Cytec Industries Inc.
                Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
                              (Dollars in millions)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
<S>                                                                             <C>              <C>             <C>
                                                                                    Year ended December 31,
                                                                         ---------------------------------------------
                                                                             2005            2004            2003
                                                                         ------------   -------------    -------------
Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, and equity in
 earnings of associated companies and extraordinary item                   $ 36.2           $167.2          $122.2
Add:
   Distributed income of associated companies                                 1.0              2.6             5.4
   Amortization of capitalized interest                                       1.6              0.5             0.4
   Fixed charges                                                             91.3             28.1            24.4
Less:
   Capitalized interest                                                      (2.8)            (1.5)           (1.3)
   Minority interest                                                         (0.6)               -               -
                                                                         ------------   -------------    -------------
Earnings as adjusted                                                       $126.7           $196.9          $151.1

Fixed charges:
   Interest on indebtedness including amortized premiums,
    discounts and deferred financing costs                                 $ 86.5           $ 24.3          $ 21.3
   Portion of rents representative of the
    interest factor                                                           4.8              3.8             3.1
                                                                         ------------   -------------    -------------
Fixed charges                                                              $ 91.3           $ 28.1          $ 24.4
                                                                         ------------   -------------    -------------
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges                                            1.4              7.0             6.2
                                                                         ------------   -------------    -------------
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>19
<FILENAME>a5083158ex21.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21
<TEXT>
                                                                      Exhibit 21

                                  SUBSIDIARIES
                                  ------------
                             (as of January 1, 2006)
                             -----------------------

NAME                                                  STATE OR COUNTRY
- ----                                                  ----------------
                                                      OF ORGANIZATION
                                                      ---------------

American Materials & Technologies Corporation (The)   Delaware
Avondale Ammonia Company                              Delaware
C.I.I. Luxembourg, S.a.r.l                            Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg
Carteret Development LLC                              Delaware
Coquimbo, SGPS LDA                                    Portugal
Cyquim de Colombia S.A.                               Delaware
Cytec Acrylic Fibers Inc.                             Delaware
Cytec Aerospace Far East Corp.                        Delaware
Cytec Ammonia Inc.                                    Delaware
Cytec Asia/Pacific Holding Pty Limited                Australia
Cytec Australia Holdings Pty Limited                  Australia
Cytec Australia Limited                               Delaware
Cytec Brewster Phosphates Inc.                        Delaware
Cytec Canada Inc.                                     Ontario
Cytec Carbon Fibers LLC                               Delaware
Cytec Chile Limitada                                  Chile
Cytec Coordination Center BVBA                        Belgium
Cytec de Argentina S.A.                               Delaware
Cytec de Chile S.A.                                   Delaware
Cytec de Mexico S.A. de C.V.                          Mexico
Cytec de Puerto Rico, Inc.                            Puerto Rico
Cytec Deutschland GmbH                                Germany
Cytec do Brasil Ltd.                                  Delaware
Cytec do Brasil Ltda.                                 Brazil
Cytec Engineered Materials GmbH                       Germany
Cytec Engineered Materials Inc.                       Delaware
Cytec Engineered Materials Limited                    England
Cytec France SAS                                      France
Cytec Global Holdings Inc.                            Delaware
Cytec Hong Kong Limited                               Hong Kong
Cytec Industries (Shanghai) Company Limited           China
Cytec Industries BV                                   Netherlands
Cytec Industries Europe C.V.                          Netherlands
Cytec Industries France S.A.R.L.                      France
Cytec Industries Italia S.r.l.                        Italy
Cytec Industries Pte. Ltd.                            Singapore
Cytec Industries UK Limited                           England
Cytec International Sales Corp.                       Barbados
Cytec Italy S.R.L.                                    Italy
Cytec Jamaica Limited                                 Jamaica
Cytec Japan Limited                                   Delaware
Cytec Korea Inc.                                      Delaware
Cytec Manufacturing B.V.                              Netherlands

<PAGE>

Cytec Melamine Inc.                                   New Jersey
Cytec Methanol Inc.                                   Delaware
Cytec Netherlands (CRP) B.V.                          Netherlands
Cytec Norge (GP) AS                                   Norway
Cytec Norge KS                                        Norway
Cytec Olean Inc.                                      Delaware
Cytec Overseas Corp.                                  Delaware
Cytec Plastics LLC                                    Delaware
Cytec Realty Corp.                                    Delaware
Cytec Surface Specialties (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.        China
Cytec Surface Specialties Austria GmbH                Austria
Cytec Surface Specialties Germany GmbH & Co KG        Germany
Cytec Surface Specialties Holding Germany GmbH        Germany
Cytec Surface Specialties Iberica S.L.                Spain
Cytec Surface Specialties Inc.                        Delaware
Cytec Surface Specialties Nordic A/S                  Denmark
Cytec Surface Specialties SA/NV                       Belgium
Cytec Surface Specialties UK Ltd                      United Kingdom
Cytec Taiwan Corp.                                    Delaware
Cytec Technology Corp.                                Delaware
Cytec Trading Limited                                 England
Cytec UK Holdings Limited                             England
D Aircraft Products, Inc.                             California
Especialidades para Superficies Ltda.                 Brazil
GSC Products, Inc.                                    Delaware
Holland LP I LLC                                      Delaware
IMC Mining Chemicals LLC                              Delaware
JBC Insurance Company                                 Vermont
M.I.O. Schoonaarde N.V.                               Belgium
Netherlands (Cytec) GP Inc.                           Delaware
Nihon Cytec Industries Inc.                           Japan
Piney River Recovery Corp.                            Delaware
Quimicos Cyquim, C.A.                                 Venezuela
Rotterdam LP II Co.                                   Delaware
Stamford Labs Realty Holdings LLC                     Delaware
Stamford Labs Realty Holdings-A LLC                   Delaware
Stamford Labs Realty Holdings-C LLC                   Delaware
Surface Specialties (Thailand) Ltd.                   Thailand
Surface Specialties Canada Inc                        Quebec
Surface Specialties Chemicals International           China
         Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.
Surface Specialties Japan Co. Ltd.                    Japan
Surface Specialties Korea Co., Ltd.                   South Korea
Surface Specialties Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.                Malaysia
Surface Specialties Taiwan Ltd.                       Taiwan
Surface Specialties Trading Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.        Malaysia
Vianova Resins Germany Management GmbH                Germany
Viking Resins Germany Holding GmbH                    Germany
West Main & Alvord Commercial Park Association LLC    Delaware



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>20
<FILENAME>a5083158ex23.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23
<TEXT>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 23







            Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm





The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Cytec Industries Inc.:

We consent to the  incorporation  by  reference in the  registration  statements
(Nos. 33-80710, 33-83576, 33-85666, 333-62287,  333-11121, 333-45577, 333-107221
and 333-122195) on Form S-8 and in the registration  statements (Nos. 333-51876,
333-52011, 333-3808 and, 333-127507) on Form S-3 of Cytec Industries Inc. of our
reports dated February 27, 2006, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets
of Cytec  Industries Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, and
the related  consolidated  statements of income,  stockholders'  equity and cash
flows for each of the years in the  three-year  period ended  December 31, 2005,
and the related financial  statement  schedule,  management's  assessment of the
effectiveness  of internal  control over financial  reporting as of December 31,
2005 and the  effectiveness of internal  control over financial  reporting as of
December 31, 2005,  which reports  appear in the December 31, 2005 annual report
on Form 10-K of Cytec Industries Inc.

Our report on the  consolidated  financial  statements  refers to the  Company's
adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, "Accounting for
Asset Retirement Obligations," effective January 1, 2003.

Our  report  dated  February  27,  2006,  on  management's   assessment  of  the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness
of internal control over financial  reporting as of December 31, 2005,  contains
an  explanatory  paragraph  that  states  that  management's  assessment  of the
effectiveness  of internal  control over  financial  reporting  and our audit of
internal  control  over  financial   reporting  of  Cytec  Industries  Inc.  and
subsidiaries excluded an evaluation of internal control over financial reporting
of the acquired Surface Specialties business of UCB S.A.,  associated with total
assets of $969  million  and total  revenues of $1,075  million  included in the
consolidated  financial  statements of Cytec Industries Inc. and subsidiaries as
of and for the year ended December 31, 2005.

/s/ KPMG LLP

Short Hills, New Jersey
February 27, 2006
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>21
<FILENAME>a5083158ex24a.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24(A)
<TEXT>
                                                                   Exhibit 24(a)


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned, a director or an

officer, or both, of Cytec Industries Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cytec"),

does hereby make, constitute and appoint D. Lilley, J. P. Cronin and R. Smith,

the address of each of which is in care of Cytec, 5 Garret Mountain Plaza, West

Paterson, New Jersey 07424, and each of them, the true and lawful attorney for

the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation to each for the

undersigned, and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, to sign in any

and all capacities and to file or cause to be filed, an annual report on Form

10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all amendments to such Form 10-K,

hereby giving to each of such attorneys full power to do everything whatsoever

required or necessary to be accomplished in and about the premises as fully as

the undersigned could do if personally present, hereby ratifying and confirming

all that such attorney or substitutes or any of them shall lawfully do or cause

to be done by virtue thereof.



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has set his hand as of this 22nd

day of February, 2006.
                                                     /s/ John E. Akitt
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     John E. Akitt
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>22
<FILENAME>a5083158ex24b.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24(B)
<TEXT>
                                                                   Exhibit 24(b)


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned, a director or an

officer, or both, of Cytec Industries Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cytec"),

does hereby make, constitute and appoint D. Lilley, J. P. Cronin and R. Smith,

the address of each of which is in care of Cytec, 5 Garret Mountain Plaza, West

Paterson, New Jersey 07424, and each of them, the true and lawful attorney for

the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation to each for the

undersigned, and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, to sign in any

and all capacities and to file or cause to be filed, an annual report on Form

10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all amendments to such Form 10-K,

hereby giving to each of such attorneys full power to do everything whatsoever

required or necessary to be accomplished in and about the premises as fully as

the undersigned could do if personally present, hereby ratifying and confirming

all that such attorney or substitutes or any of them shall lawfully do or cause

to be done by virtue thereof.



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has set his hand as of this 22nd

day of February, 2006.
                                                     /s/ Chris A. Davis
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     Chris A. Davis
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>23
<FILENAME>a5083158ex24c.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24(C)
<TEXT>
                                                                   Exhibit 24(c)


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned, a director or an

officer, or both, of Cytec Industries Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cytec"),

does hereby make, constitute and appoint D. Lilley, J. P. Cronin and R. Smith,

the address of each of which is in care of Cytec, 5 Garret Mountain Plaza, West

Paterson, New Jersey 07424, and each of them, the true and lawful attorney for

the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation to each for the

undersigned, and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, to sign in any

and all capacities and to file or cause to be filed, an annual report on Form

10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all amendments to such Form 10-K,

hereby giving to each of such attorneys full power to do everything whatsoever

required or necessary to be accomplished in and about the premises as fully as

the undersigned could do if personally present, hereby ratifying and confirming

all that such attorney or substitutes or any of them shall lawfully do or cause

to be done by virtue thereof.



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has set his hand as of this 22nd

day of February, 2006.
                                                     /s/ Anthony G. Fernandes
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     Anthony G. Fernandes
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>24
<FILENAME>a5083158ex24d.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24(D)
<TEXT>
                                                                   Exhibit 24(d)



                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned, a director or an

officer, or both, of Cytec Industries Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cytec"),

does hereby make, constitute and appoint D. Lilley, J. P. Cronin and R. Smith,

the address of each of which is in care of Cytec, 5 Garret Mountain Plaza, West

Paterson, New Jersey 07424, and each of them, the true and lawful attorney for

the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation to each for the

undersigned, and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, to sign in any

and all capacities and to file or cause to be filed, an annual report on Form

10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all amendments to such Form 10-K,

hereby giving to each of such attorneys full power to do everything whatsoever

required or necessary to be accomplished in and about the premises as fully as

the undersigned could do if personally present, hereby ratifying and confirming

all that such attorney or substitutes or any of them shall lawfully do or cause

to be done by virtue thereof.



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has set his hand as of this 22nd

day of February, 2006.
                                                     /s/ Louis L. Hoynes, Jr.
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     Louis L. Hoynes, Jr.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>25
<FILENAME>a5083158ex24e.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24(E)
<TEXT>
                                                                   Exhibit 24(e)


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned, a director or an

officer, or both, of Cytec Industries Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cytec"),

does hereby make, constitute and appoint D. Lilley, J. P. Cronin and R. Smith,

the address of each of which is in care of Cytec, 5 Garret Mountain Plaza, West

Paterson, New Jersey 07424, and each of them, the true and lawful attorney for

the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation to each for the

undersigned, and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, to sign in any

and all capacities and to file or cause to be filed, an annual report on Form

10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all amendments to such Form 10-K,

hereby giving to each of such attorneys full power to do everything whatsoever

required or necessary to be accomplished in and about the premises as fully as

the undersigned could do if personally present, hereby ratifying and confirming

all that such attorney or substitutes or any of them shall lawfully do or cause

to be done by virtue thereof.


         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has set his hand as of this 22nd

day of February, 2006.
                                                     /s/ Barry C. Johnson
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     Barry C. Johnson

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>26
<FILENAME>a5083158ex24f.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24(F)
<TEXT>
                                                                   Exhibit 24(f)


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned, a director or an

officer, or both, of Cytec Industries Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cytec"),

does hereby make, constitute and appoint D. Lilley, J. P. Cronin and R. Smith,

the address of each of which is in care of Cytec, 5 Garret Mountain Plaza, West

Paterson, New Jersey 07424, and each of them, the true and lawful attorney for

the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation to each for the

undersigned, and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, to sign in any

and all capacities and to file or cause to be filed, an annual report on Form

10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all amendments to such Form 10-K,

hereby giving to each of such attorneys full power to do everything whatsoever

required or necessary to be accomplished in and about the premises as fully as

the undersigned could do if personally present, hereby ratifying and confirming

all that such attorney or substitutes or any of them shall lawfully do or cause

to be done by virtue thereof.



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has set his hand as of this 22nd

day of February, 2006.
                                                     /s/ William P. Powell
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     William P. Powell
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>27
<FILENAME>a5083158ex24g.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24(G)
<TEXT>
                                                                   Exhibit 24(g)


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned, a director or an

officer, or both, of Cytec Industries Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cytec"),

does hereby make, constitute and appoint D. Lilley, J. P. Cronin and R. Smith,

the address of each of which is in care of Cytec, 5 Garret Mountain Plaza, West

Paterson, New Jersey 07424, and each of them, the true and lawful attorney for

the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation to each for the

undersigned, and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, to sign in any

and all capacities and to file or cause to be filed, an annual report on Form

10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all amendments to such Form 10-K,

hereby giving to each of such attorneys full power to do everything whatsoever

required or necessary to be accomplished in and about the premises as fully as


the undersigned could do if personally present, hereby ratifying and confirming

all that such attorney or substitutes or any of them shall lawfully do or cause

to be done by virtue thereof.



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has set his hand as of this 22nd

day of February, 2006.
                                                     /s/ Jerry R. Satrum
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     Jerry R. Satrum
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>28
<FILENAME>a5083158ex24h.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24(H)
<TEXT>
                                                                   Exhibit 24(h)



                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned, a director or an

officer, or both, of Cytec Industries Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cytec"),

does hereby make, constitute and appoint D. Lilley, J. P. Cronin and R. Smith,

the address of each of which is in care of Cytec, 5 Garret Mountain Plaza, West

Paterson, New Jersey 07424, and each of them, the true and lawful attorney for

the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation to each for the

undersigned, and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, to sign in any

and all capacities and to file or cause to be filed, an annual report on Form

10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all amendments to such Form 10-K,

hereby giving to each of such attorneys full power to do everything whatsoever

required or necessary to be accomplished in and about the premises as fully as

the undersigned could do if personally present, hereby ratifying and confirming

all that such attorney or substitutes or any of them shall lawfully do or cause

to be done by virtue thereof.



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has set his hand as of this 22nd

day of February, 2006.
                                                     /s/ Raymond P. Sharpe
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     Raymond P. Sharpe
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-24
<SEQUENCE>29
<FILENAME>a5083158ex24i.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 24(I)
<TEXT>
                                                                   Exhibit 24(i)


                                POWER OF ATTORNEY


     KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned, a director or an

officer, or both, of Cytec Industries Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Cytec"),

does hereby make, constitute and appoint D. Lilley, J. P. Cronin and R. Smith,

the address of each of which is in care of Cytec, 5 Garret Mountain Plaza, West

Paterson, New Jersey 07424, and each of them, the true and lawful attorney for

the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation to each for the

undersigned, and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, to sign in any

and all capacities and to file or cause to be filed, an annual report on Form

10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any and all amendments to such Form 10-K,

hereby giving to each of such attorneys full power to do everything whatsoever

required or necessary to be accomplished in and about the premises as fully as

the undersigned could do if personally present, hereby ratifying and confirming

all that such attorney or substitutes or any of them shall lawfully do or cause

to be done by virtue thereof.



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has set his hand as of this 22nd

day of February, 2006.
                                                     /s/ J. R. Stanley
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                     J. R. Stanley
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31.1
<SEQUENCE>30
<FILENAME>a5083158ex31_1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 31.1
<TEXT>

                                  EXHIBIT 31.1
                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, David Lilley, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cytec Industries Inc.;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
     a material  fact or omit to state a  material  fact  necessary  to make the
     statements made, in light of the circumstances  under which such statements
     were made,  not  misleading  with  respect  to the  period  covered by this
     report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information  included  in  this  report,  fairly  present  in all  material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))  and internal  control over
     financial  reporting  (as  defined  in  Exchange  Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and
     15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

     a)   designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,  or caused such
          disclosure   controls  and   procedures  to  be  designed   under  our
          supervision,  to ensure  that  material  information  relating  to the
          registrant,  including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
          us by others within those entities,  particularly during the period in
          which this report is being prepared;

     b)   designed such internal  control over  financial  reporting,  or caused
          such internal  control over  financial  reporting to be designed under
          our  supervision,   to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the
          reliability  of financial  reporting and the  preparation of financial
          statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
          accounting principles;

     c)   evaluated the  effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls
          and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions  about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
          of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

     d)   disclosed  in this  report  any  change in the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's
          most  recent  fiscal  quarter  that  has  materially  affected,  or is
          reasonably  likely to materially  affect,  the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting; and

5.   The registrant's  other certifying  officer and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
     the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board
     of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

     a)   all significant  deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
          operation  of internal  control  over  financial  reporting  which are
          reasonably  likely to  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

     b)   any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves management or other
          employees who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
          controls over financial reporting.

/s/ David Lilley
- -----------------------
David Lilley
Chairman, President and
Chief Executive Officer
February 28, 2006
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-31.2
<SEQUENCE>31
<FILENAME>a5083158ex31_2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 31.2
<TEXT>

                                  EXHIBIT 31.2
                                 CERTIFICATIONS

I, James P. Cronin, certify that:

1.   I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Cytec Industries Inc.;

2.   Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of
     a material  fact or omit to state a  material  fact  necessary  to make the
     statements made, in light of the circumstances  under which such statements
     were made,  not  misleading  with  respect  to the  period  covered by this
     report;

3.   Based on my  knowledge,  the  financial  statements,  and  other  financial
     information  included  in  this  report,  fairly  present  in all  material
     respects the financial  condition,  results of operations and cash flows of
     the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4.   The  registrant's  other  certifying  officer  and  I are  responsible  for
     establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined
     in Exchange Act Rules  13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e))  and internal  control over
     financial  reporting  (as  defined  in  Exchange  Act Rules  13a-15(f)  and
     15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

     a)   designed  such  disclosure  controls  and  procedures,  or caused such
          disclosure   controls  and   procedures  to  be  designed   under  our
          supervision,  to ensure  that  material  information  relating  to the
          registrant,  including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to
          us by others within those entities,  particularly during the period in
          which this report is being prepared;

     b)   designed such internal  control over  financial  reporting,  or caused
          such internal  control over  financial  reporting to be designed under
          our  supervision,   to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the
          reliability  of financial  reporting and the  preparation of financial
          statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
          accounting principles;

     c)   evaluated the  effectiveness of the registrant's  disclosure  controls
          and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions  about the
          effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end
          of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and

     d)   disclosed  in this  report  any  change in the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's
          most  recent  fiscal  quarter  that  has  materially  affected,  or is
          reasonably  likely to materially  affect,  the  registrant's  internal
          control over financial reporting; and

5.   The registrant's  other certifying  officer and I have disclosed,  based on
     our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to
     the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board
     of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

     a)   all significant  deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or
          operation  of internal  control  over  financial  reporting  which are
          reasonably  likely to  adversely  affect the  registrant's  ability to
          record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

     b)   any fraud, whether or not material,  that involves management or other
          employees who have a  significant  role in the  registrant's  internal
          controls over financial reporting.

/s/ James P. Cronin
- -----------------------------
James P. Cronin
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
February 28, 2006
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32.1
<SEQUENCE>32
<FILENAME>a5083158ex32_1.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT32.1
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 32.1

                           CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350



In connection with the Annual Report of Cytec Industries Inc. (the "Company") on
Form10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  on the  date  hereof  (the  "Report"),  I,  David  Lilley,
Chairman,  President  and  Chief  Executive  Officer  of the  Company,  certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350,  as adopted  pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

     (1)  The Report fully  complies with the  requirements  of section 13(a) or
          15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2)  The  information  contained  in the  Report  fairly  presents,  in all
          material respects,  the financial  condition and results of operations
          of the Company.


/s/ David Lilley
- -----------------------
David Lilley
Chairman, President and
Chief Executive Officer
February 28, 2006


This certification is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange  Commission
as an Exhibit to the Form 10-K and shall not be considered  filed as part of the
Form 10-K.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-32.2
<SEQUENCE>33
<FILENAME>a5083158ex32_2.txt
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 32.2
<TEXT>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 32.2

                           CERTIFICATIONS PURSUANT TO
                             18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350



In connection with the Annual Report of Cytec Industries Inc. (the "Company") on
Form10-K for the period ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the Securities and
Exchange  Commission  on the date hereof  (the  "Report"),  I, James P.  Cronin,
Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company,  certify,
pursuant to 18 U.S.C.  Section 1350,  as adopted  pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:

     (1)  The Report fully  complies with the  requirements  of section 13(a) or
          15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and

     (2)  The  information  contained  in the  Report  fairly  presents,  in all
          material respects,  the financial  condition and results of operations
          of the Company.



/s/ James P. Cronin
- ----------------------------
James P. Cronin
Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer
February 28, 2006



This certification is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange  Commission
as an Exhibit to the Form 10-K and shall not be considered  filed as part of the
Form 10-K.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
