-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Fj4UzzcLYBWGlwHbrdlKCcEEijQh1dfGrMnTQOJ+6yNpxqXea8xG5pl5HhIpywqu
 r80YmMe9AQUYgPC+Se9+/w==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000097196-97-000001.txt : 19970115
<SEC-HEADER>0000097196-97-000001.hdr.sgml : 19970115
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000097196-97-000001
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19960930
FILED AS OF DATE:		19970114
SROS:			AMEX

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SOFTNET SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000097196
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-TELEPHONE INTERCONNECT SYSTEMS [7385]
		IRS NUMBER:				111817252
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05270
		FILM NUMBER:		97505754

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		717 FOREST AVENUE
		CITY:			LAKE FOREST
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60045
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7084332780

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		717 FOREST AVE
		CITY:			LAKE FOREST
		STATE:			IL
		ZIP:			60045

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	VADER GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MAGICSILK INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880308

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TENSOR CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19860819
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1996
<TEXT>




                    U. S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

[ X ]     Annual  Report  Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
          Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996.

                                      OR

[   ]     Transition  Report  under  Section  13 or 15(d)  of the  Securities
          Exchange Act of 1934.
                           Commission File No.: 1-5270

                              SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              New York                                 11-1817252
   --------------------------------        ---------------------------------
   (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     incorporation or organization)

    717 Forest Avenue, Lake Forest, Illinois               60045
   ------------------------------------------          --------------
   (Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (847) 266-8150

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                   Name of each exchange
   Title of each class                              on which registered
  ---------------------                         ---------------------------
    Common Stock, par                             American Stock Exchange
  value $.01 per share

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the  Act:   None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best  of  registrant's   knowledge,  in  the  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

The  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
registrant at December 30, 1996 was approximately $26.2 million.

Indicate the number of shares  outstanding  of each of the  issuer's  classes of
common stock, as of the latest  practicable  date.

               Class                          Outstanding at December 30, 1996
- --------------------------------------      -----------------------------------
Common stock, $.01 per share par value                     6,564,455


Documents Incorporated by Reference:

          Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on March
          4, 1997 (Part III)


<PAGE>



                                     PART I


Item 1.  Business


Overview

SoftNet Systems,  Inc. (the "Company") is engaged in the business of developing,
marketing,   installing  and  servicing  electronic   information  and  document
management   systems  that  allow  customers  to   electronically   request  and
electronically receive information. The Company operates through three segments:
document management, telecommunications and Internet services.

The document management segment designs,  develops,  manufactures and integrates
comprehensive, non-paper based systems and components that enable the Company to
deliver to its customers cost-effective  solutions for storage,  indexing and/or
distribution of high-volume  computer  generated or entered  information.  These
systems,  which  include  both  hardware  and  software  products,  are based on
industry standard client-server architecture providing flexibility to connect to
a wide variety of information systems. The hardware  manufactured by the Company
includes a family of computer output microfilm ("COM")  printers.  The Company's
software  principally  captures data and information  from a variety of sources,
intelligently  indexes  the data and  outputs  the  information  to a variety of
storage media including optical disk, magnetic disk and tape, CD-ROM,  microfilm
and microfiche. The image source and storage media are transparent to the system
user.

The  telecommunications  segment provides  communication  solutions  through the
design,  implementation,  maintenance and  integration of voice,  data and video
communication  equipment and service.  The  telecommunications  segment operates
throughout the Midwest with offices in Chicago,  Illinois, Kansas City, Missouri
and Milwaukee,  Wisconsin.  The Company's  telecommunications  products  include
telephone  systems and call processing  systems  (including call centers,  voice
messaging, interactive voice response ("IVR") and computer telephone integration
("CTI")).  These products are manufactured by third parties.  Additionally,  the
Company develops software for IVR and CTI applications, sells and installs local
and long distance network services,  provides  maintenance services for existing
customers and provides cabling and data communications.  The  telecommunications
segment  markets its products and services  principally  to customers with 25 or
more telephones located in the Midwest.

The Internet services segment, which solely targets business customers, provides
Internet access, web and database development,  and Internet training.  Internet
services are provided by the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, MediaCity World,
Inc.  ("MCW"),  a San  Francisco Bay area Internet  Service  Provider  which was
acquired in June 1996. The Company's  products and services include both dial-up
and dedicated Internet access, web site and database  development,  and Internet
training for Internet browser users and web site developers.  Additionally,  MCW
is an agent for sales of local  telephone  company data services in  conjunction
with the sale of  Internet  access.  The  Company  maintains  Points of Presence
("POPs") in nine (9) locations in the San Francisco Bay Area and Reno, Nevada.

The Company's  strategy includes the selling of products and services that, when
taken   together   with   a   customer's   existing   computer   resources   and
telecommunications systems, can consolidate all information within an enterprise
into a common,  electronically  accessible information warehouse,  regardless of
geographic diversity.

The  Company  was  incorporated  in New York in  December  1956.  Its  principal
executive  office is located at 717 Forest Avenue,  Lake Forest,  Illinois 60045
and its telephone  number is (847)  266-8150.  As used herein,  the defined term
"Company" shall mean SoftNet Systems,  Inc., together with its four wholly-owned
operating subsidiaries, Kansas Communications, Inc. ("KCI"), Communicate Direct,
Inc.  ("CDI") (d/b/a SoftNet  Business  Solutions,  Inc.  ("SBS"),  Micrographic
Technology  Corporation ("MTC") and MCW, unless the context otherwise indicates.
KCI and SBS comprise the Company's telecommunications segment, MTC comprises the
document management segment and MCW comprises the Internet segment.


Industry Segments

Financial information relating to industry segments of the Company for the three
years ended  September  30, 1996,  1995, and 1994 is set forth in Note 16 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included herewith.


Market Overview

Document Management Segment

The volume of  information  being  generated  and  processed  by the private and
public sectors is growing rapidly.  Currently, the Company estimates that 90% of
information  is  generated  and stored  using  paper,  a format which (a) causes
delays, (b) requires  significant space and personnel for document storage,  (c)
results in lost,  damaged and/or mis-filed  documents,  (d) requires support for
dual  document  management  systems,  one  for  paper  and  one  for  electronic
documents, and (e) generally allows only one concurrent user of a document. As a
result,  the focus in the imaging  industry has been on developing and expanding
non-paper based storage and retrieval technologies.

Historically  and currently,  the impediments to a higher  utilization  rate for
non-paper based storage include:

         Lack of widespread personal computing technology and acceptance.

         Lack of network capabilities to connect employees within the office and
         in remote locations with the storage and retrieval technologies.

         Lack of "seamless" retrieval technology allowing the user to retrieve a
         stored document from the desktop  personal  computer rather than trying
         to  determine  on what  storage  media the document was stored and then
         retrieving it through the specific  retrieval  process  associated with
         that media.

         High cost of electronic storage devices.

There is growing  interest in non-paper  based  storage as a result of increased
computer competency created by the personal computer  revolution,  proliferation
of personal  computers,  growth of networks  connecting  those computers to data
repositories and declining cost of storage. Businesses typically utilize several
different  non-paper  based storage  technologies  simultaneously.  Demand for a
particular technology is driven by cost, speed of retrieval, ongoing feasibility
of retrieval technology and longevity requirements of the documents. The optimal
mix of these attributes  changes according to the frequency of information usage
and the urgency of its retrieval.  At the early stage of a document's  life when
the  document is in high usage,  a  high-cost,  but  fast-access  technology  is
appropriate.  In  later  stages,  it is  more  appropriate  for  the  data to be
transferred for archiving to a low-cost  technologically  independent media such
as COM.

COM converts digital information directly from a computer or magnetic tape to an
analog  format  which then can be stored on  microfilm  or  microfiche.  COM was
initially  developed as an information  management  system that would reduce the
cost and increase the speed of computer output by "printing"  computer generated
data on microfilm or microfiche  instead of paper.  Compared to paper, COM has a
number of benefits.  COM recorders can print reports  substantially  faster than
high speed printers and multiple  copies can be made easily and  economically on
high-speed  duplicators.  The effective  speed of MTC's COM printer is up to 600
data pages of output per minute.  By contrast,  today's high speed page printers
average between 200 and 300 data pages per minute.  In addition,  a COM recorder
can  print a 670  page  report  on a single  4" X 6"  microfiche.  In  addition,
microfilm  is accepted  as evidence in a court of law since the image  cannot be
altered and microfilm  offers the  capability of storing a document for over 100
years as  compared  to the  electronic  technology  alternatives   (e.g.  CD-ROM
and magnetic tape), which become obsolete at  3-5 year intervals.  The fact that
COM can be read by the  human  eye  makes it the safer  choice  for  storage  of
documents  which must  outlive  the 3-5 year  technological  obsolescence  cycle
associated with electronic storage products.

Telecommunications Segment

The  Company   believes  that  the   telecommunications   industry  is  becoming
increasingly  complex and that,  as a result,  businesses  are seeking to narrow
their  vendor base to those  suppliers  who offer a broad range of products  and
services  and can manage the  complexity  of the new  technology.  Trends in the
industry include:

Growth of New Communication Products and Markets. A variety of new communication
technologies  have  emerged  over the  past  several  years  which  enhance  the
capabilities of the traditional  telephone  system.  A variety of  manufacturers
have  introduced  new products  including  call centers,  automated  attendants,
interactive voice response ("IVR") units, video  conferencing  systems and voice
messaging products.

Increased  Use of "Unified  Messaging"  Systems.  Over the past  several  years,
multiple forms of messaging,  including voice mail,  E-mail and facsimile,  have
proliferated  in the office  environment.  All of these forms of messaging  have
emerged as independent  technologies,  generally  requiring  their own dedicated
hardware and their own  communication  protocols.  As a result,  office  workers
generally are required to manually retrieve a facsimile,  pick up a telephone to
listen to voice mail and log on to a computer to retrieve E-mail. To improve the
efficiency of managing information,  businesses are seeking ways to unify access
to disparate forms of messaging. This includes providing workers access to their
messages  regardless  of  whether  they are  on-site  or at a  remote  location.
Computer  telephone  integration  ("CTI") is providing an interface for managing
different  message types from either a desktop personal computer or a telephone.
While there are numerous  manufacturers of CTI hardware and software  equipment,
the manufactured systems need to be "customized" for an individual business.

Increasing Role of Independent  Vendors.  Through new technologies,  the private
branch  exchange  ("PBX")  is being  utilized  as a  multimedia  "backbone"  for
transporting voice and data over network services.  As a result,  businesses are
requiring increasingly complex telecommunications  systems. The Company believes
that  it will be  more  cost-effective  for  these  companies  to  contract  the
management of their  communication  systems to third  parties.  The Company also
believes that the role of independent  vendors such as itself will increase over
time. As a result of its independence from any manufacturer, the Company has the
ability to select those products which provide the best  technological  solution
to  its  customers.  This  independence  also  provides  the  Company  with  the
flexibility  to take advantage of new  technologies  and products as they become
available  without large investments in research and development and the risk of
inventory obsolescence and technological incompatibility.

Internet Services Segment

The Company believes that the Internet services segment will provide added value
to its  existing   customer  base  while  better  positioning  the  Company as a
solutions provider.  The Internet services segment is focused solely on business
customers which represents the fastest growing and most profitable sector of the
Internet  market.  Due to the  complexity  of the Internet and rate at which new
development platforms are being introduced, MCW will continue to position itself
as a full service provider of Internet solutions.



Industry Trends

The Company  believes that its core businesses are rapidly  merging.  To improve
the  efficiency of managing  information,  businesses  are seeking ways to unify
access to disparate forms of messaging.  For example,  unified  messaging,  call
processing  and imaging  message  platforms  from  companies  such as Octel/VMX,
Applied Voice  Technologies  and Wang have recently  integrated  with the E-mail
applications of Microsoft  Windows 95, creating a single file management  system
for voice,  fax,  E-mail and imaging  messages.  Similarly,  imaging vendors are
utilizing telecommunications and Internet technology to distribute large volumes
of data from  centralized  data centers to remote  offices and  customer  sites.
Technological  developments  such as  high  speed  Integrated  Services  Digital
Network   ("ISDN"),   Frame  Relay,  and  Asyncronous   Transfer  Modes  ("ATM")
transmission    lines   have   made   the   distribution   of   data   utilizing
telecommunications and Internet technology cost effective.

Another  trend is the blending of  telecommunications  and imaging  applications
found in customer service call centers.  Typically,  these applications are very
transaction  oriented.  Customer  Service  agents must be able to access various
types of data instantly in order to service inquiries. Data are usually found on
written  business forms for invoices and purchase  orders,  optical  servers for
publications  and  specifications,  fax  servers for both  inbound and  outbound
requests, E-mail and the Internet.  Additionally,  workflow applications,  along
with computer  telephone  integration  products,  which  provide the  electronic
routing  mechanism  to manage  all forms of data,  must be  integrated  with the
various types of document  retrieval  and storage  methods to allow the customer
service call center to efficiently access such data.

Currently,  middle  market  customers'  applications  are  addressed by multiple
vendors such as Novell re-sellers for local area network ("LAN") implementation,
telephone  vendors for PBX and key systems,  and consultants for image enabling,
Internet,  or call  center  applications.  The  Company  believes  that with its
current resources and expertise in document management,  telecommunications  and
Internet  services,  it is well positioned to address this emerging  integration
market as a single source provider.


Products and Services

Document Management Segment

COM Systems.  The Company believes it is a leading  manufacturer of COM systems,
offering a complete line of COM recorders,  processors,  duplicators and related
software.  The Company  manufactures three different  sophisticated COM printers
under the System  6800 line of  products,  all of which  have a complete  set of
features,  including wet or dry processing  technology,  cut fiche capabilities,
medium to high speed, stand-alone or integrated film processors and duplicators,
all under PC control utilizing electronic forms. The System 6800 series provides
an architectural platform designed to permit easy integration of information and
image  management  systems,  including  the  capability to add both magnetic and
optical  disk  file  storage  subsystems  for use in future  document  and image
processing  applications.  A key factor differentiating the Company's product is
its PC based  client-server  architecture  which  gives the System  6800 line of
products  the  ability  to  operate  within  the   traditional   direct  connect
environment or, alternatively,  become part of any client-server  facility using
LAN/WAN communications.  This last feature allows both central and remote users,
of virtually any application,  to output information to microfiche regardless of
their location. COM systems contributed approximately 29% to document management
segment revenue in fiscal year 1996.

Information  Distribution System. The Company's Information  Distribution System
is a family  of  product  options  designed  to  automate  the  computer  output
production  process and expand the total product offering to include  electronic
subsystems  like  optical  disk  and  CD-ROM.  This  architecture  combines  the
client-server  platform,  Microsoft Windows operating environment and Novell LAN
to allow the user to transport any  information to the print or storage media of
their choice,  enhancing the  productivity  of their computer output and storage
operation.  The following  product  options  comprise the Company's  Information
Distribution System:

         Information Distribution System Executive. The Information Distribution
         System Executive ("IDSEXEC") software product allows for the collection
         of  data  streams   generated  from  a  variety  of  sources  including
         mainframes,  LAN's and image processing platforms.  The IDSEXEC has the
         capability to intelligently  search for incoming information from these
         different sources,  aggregate that information into a document and then
         store that document on the most applicable  media based on the intended
         length of storage and the retrievability requirements. The IDSEXEC also
         can  intelligently  index source  information for convenient and timely
         retrieval  regardless  of the storage  media.  Historically,  if a user
         wanted  information  contained  on a  computer  tape  stored on CD-ROM,
         microfilm and paper,  then the computer  tape had to be duplicated  two
         times (a  total of three  copies  available)  and then  three  separate
         application systems were utilized to store the information on the three
         different media. With the Company's IDSEXEC,  only one computer tape is
         necessary,  because the software allows the information to be output to
         the three desired storage media simultaneously. With the IDSEXEC, it is
         also possible to reorder images  submitted in one sequence to any other
         logical ordering  sequence  specified by the user. The Company believes
         that  it is  the  only  company  that  possesses  intelligent  indexing
         technology.

         Page Handler.  A software  product which stores a "mirror image" of the
         document on any of the supported IDSEXEC storage media. The software is
         able to understand a wide variety of print languages.

         Complete  Organization of Every Document ("COED").  A software/hardware
         product  which  records any  documents  within the  IDSEXEC  production
         process on any supported electronic storage device. The system provides
         software user tools which  facilitate the retrieval of stored documents
         for viewing, printing, faxing or exporting.

Microfilm and Media Supplies: The Company offers a complete line of original and
duplicate  microfilm  and  chemicals  for use in its COM printer and  duplicator
systems.  The sale of microfilm and media  supplies  provides the Company with a
continuing  stream of cash flow and acts as a supplement to its hardware  sales,
which  provides  a less  consistent  stream of cash flow due to its high  dollar
value, long sales cycle and capital  equipment nature.  Media sales also provide
the opportunity to establish continuity of relationships between the Company and
its installed customer base.  Maintaining these relationships is important since
numerous hardware sales of replacement pieces or upgrades of technology are made
to these customers.  The Company acquires a significant portion of its microfilm
and media  supplies  from  Eastman  Kodak and sells them on a  drop-ship  basis.
Microfilm and media supplies  sales  contributed  approximately  37% to document
management segment's revenue in fiscal 1996.

Maintenance and Spare Parts: The Company supplies spare parts for maintenance on
its installed COM equipment user base. Maintenance on the Company's user base is
sub-contracted to a third party maintenance organization,  for which the Company
receives a monthly royalty. Revenue from maintenance and spare parts contributed
approximately 10% and 8%,  respectively,  to the document  management  segment's
revenue in fiscal 1996.

RAPID. The document management segment currently has under-development its RAPID
Archiving  Peripheral  for Images and Documents  ("RAPID TM") product.  RAPID TM
will provide high-speed  conversion of digitally-stored  documents and images to
low-cost, human-readable media. RAPID TM will enable imaging and Computer Output
to Laser Disk ("COLD") systems a low-cost, no-migration archiving alternative to
bulging  digital  repositories  by  off-loading  Write Once Read Never  ("WORN")
information to film.  RAPID's software will organize  documents and reports into
file folders for meaningful, rapid retrieval. RAPID is scheduled to be completed
in the second  quarter of fiscal 1997 and will require an additional  investment
by the Company of $500,000 to complete.

Telecommunications Segment

The telecommunications segment generates revenue primarily from the initial sale
of third party products,  "moves,  adds,  changes" and by providing services and
maintenance.

Initial Product Sales

Telephone Systems. The Company provides PBX and key/hybrid telephone systems for
its customers.  A PBX, which is generally utilized for customers with 100 phones
or larger  with  growth up to  thousands  of  phones,  is  handled  by the F9600
manufactured by Fujitsu Business  Communications  Systems,  Inc. ("Fujitsu") and
the Definity  manufactured  by Lucent  Technologies,  Inc.  The smaller  systems
handle  customers  from 10 phones up to 200  phones.  In this area,  the Company
markets the  Integrated  Digital  System from  Executone  and  Northern  Telecom
Norstar.  Prices for telephone  systems range from $3,000 for a small key system
to over $1 million for a large, complex PBX system.

Call  Processing.   Call  processing  is  a  general  term  used  for  many  new
applications  to enhance the  operation of existing  telecommunication  systems.
These areas are as follows:

         Call Centers.  A call center enhances the telephone system's ability to
         handle  large  volumes  of  inbound  or  outbound  calls and is used by
         businesses for customer service,  reservations  centers and other large
         order entry type  operations.  The Company offers call center  products
         from Fujitsu and Executone.

         Voice  Messaging.  Voice  mail  is  one  of the  more  common  products
         encountered  by the  general  public.  This  technology  enables  voice
         communications  to be sent,  stored and retrieved  from any  touch-tone
         telephone.  The Company  offers voice mail systems from Octel,  AVT and
         Executone.

         Interactive  Voice  Response.  This  product  was one of the  first  to
         integrate the use of the telephone system with a computer system.  This
         technology allows a caller to access a computer database to retrieve or
         input information via a touchtone telephone. IVR units allow callers to
         access bank account information, obtain airline reservation information
         and many  other  applications.  The  Company  markets  IVR  units  from
         Syntellect and AVT.

Computer  Telephone  Integration.  The combination of the computer and telephone
has led to a new group of products  entitled CTI. The Company  maintains a staff
of  programmers  who  have  developed  customized  CTI  applications  for  their
customers.  In addition,  the Company has entered into an agreement  with Answer
Soft to market its line of CTI based products,  and is evaluating  several other
CTI products for distribution.

Revenue from initial product sales contributed approximately 53%, 64% and 38% to
revenue  for the  telecommunications  segment in fiscal  1996,  1995,  and 1994,
respectively.

Moves, Adds and Changes

Moves,  adds and changes  consist of moving  telephones  to new user  locations,
adding  telephones or expansion cards in a telephone  system and changing system
and user features.  Moves, adds and changes  contributed  approximately 26%, 14%
and 27% of total  telecommunications segment  revenue in fiscal 1996,  1995, and
1994, respectively.

Service and maintenance

Customer  Service.  The Company  maintains a strong customer service focus which
helps generate recurring revenue from its existing customer relationships.  This
revenue takes the form of  maintenance  contracts,  service  calls,  upgrades to
existing systems and new systems for new locations.

Cabling.  Cabling is the process of  installing  the  physical  connection  that
connects telephones and computers. The Company provides cabling for a variety of
applications, including coax and fiber for voice, data and LAN applications. The
Company provides Building Industry  Consulting Service  International  ("BICSI")
trained engineers to design cable networks for its customers.  The Company is an
authorized  distributor  of AT&T's  Systimax  Cabling  System.  In  addition  to
providing  the design and  hardware  for the cabling  system,  the Company  also
provides installation labor for customers.

Data  Communications.  The Company is a Novell Gold and Microsoft Advance Server
certified  reseller and the Company's primary focus on data network  integration
has been to its existing customers. The Company has distribution agreements with
several  strategic  partners  such as Compaq,  Novell,  Hewlett-Packard  and AST
Research.

Sales of services and maintenance contributed  approximately 15%, 17% and 24% of
total  telecommunication  segment  revenue  in  fiscal  1996,  1995,  and  1994,
respectively.

Internet Services Segment

The Internet service segment provides  Internet access,  develops World Wide Web
pages, resells related hardware and software and provides Internet training. The
Company is a value added re-seller for Pacific Bell, an authorized re-seller for
Ascend  Communications  and a Microsoft  Solutions  Provider.  MCW  products and
services are summarized as follows:

Internet Access.  Dial-Up Accounts provide Internet access on an as needed basis
and generate  $9.95 to $24.95 per customer per month  depending on the number of
included  hours and  mega-bytes  of storage  used by the  subscriber.  Dedicated
access enables direct, high-speed continuous connection of an organization's LAN
to the Internet via MCI's  Internet  backbone at speeds of 56 kbps (frame relay)
to 1.45 mbps (point-to-point). Monthly service charges range from $125 to $1,250
depending on the speed of service offered.

The Company  offers other  services to its customers  including  co-location  of
Internet  servers,  corporate  e-mail,  e-mail robots for mass marketing and FTP
sites used in technical support applications for file transactions.

Web Development.  The Company's web services include web development and hosting
for its Internet customers.  Targeted at middle market customers,  MCW is a full
service  provider that allows its customers to develop and maintain  dynamic web
sites for both internal  Intranet and external  Internet  applications.  Monthly
charges  for web  hostings  range  from $50 to  $2,500  per month  depending  on
band-width requirements,  number of inquiries (hits) per month and scripting and
database requirements. One-time charges for web site development range from $195
to $25,000 depending on the customer's needs.

Internet   Training.   The  Company  provides  Internet  training  to  corporate
customers.  Courses range from Introductions to the Internet,  a variety of HTML
programming and advanced courses in CGI and JAVA scripting.
Revenue per course ranges from $149 to $699.

Sales and Marketing

Document Management Segment

The Company markets its document management products and services worldwide.  In
the United States,  the Company  employs a direct sales force and outside of the
United States the Company uses a network of distributors.

Telecommunications Segment

The Company sells its  telecommunications  products and services  throughout the
Midwest,  with  principal  focus on the  Chicago,  Illinois  metropolitan  area,
Kansas,  Missouri,  and Wisconsin.  The Company  employs a direct sales force to
sell its telecommunications products and services.

Internet Services Segment

The Internet  services segment sells its products and services  primarily in the
San  Francisco  Bay area  through a direct sales staff of four  individuals  and
twelve  Internet  design  consultants/Web  advertisers.  The  Company  employs a
variety of selling  techniques  in order to reach  targeted  business  customers
including telemarketing, direct mail and sales calls.

Customers

During fiscal 1996, one customer,  NCR Corp., accounted for 13% of the Company's
consolidated  revenue. No single customer of the Company accounted for more than
10% of the Company's consolidated revenue in fiscal 1995 or 1994.

Document Management Segment

The Company markets its products and services to two distinct  customer  groups:
(a) those customers with high-volume document,  storage and retrieval needs, and
(b) those customers who desire to image enable existing  business  applications,
to  facilitate  rapid and  efficient data storage and retrieval and to provide a
vehicle to  electronically  process data input (e.g.  health claims  processing,
lease administration, etc.).

For those  customers  who have  high-volume  data output,  storage and retrieval
needs, the Company further defines its customers as service  bureaus,  end users
and  authorized  distributors.  Service  bureaus have  capitalized on the recent
trend toward outsourcing. Customers of service bureaus generally do not have the
data output  volumes  that would  justify  dedicated  COM and  related  systems.
Conversely,  certain  financial  institutions,  insurance  companies  and public
utilities do have the output volumes that would justify  direct  purchase of the
Company's products. Current end user customers include Fortune 500 companies and
other service providers.

The Company currently markets its image enabling  technologies to the healthcare
claims processing industry and governmental agencies.  These customers typically
process high  volumes of input data and have a variety of storage and  retrieval
requirements.  The Company's  ability to blend current  technologies  allows the
customization  of imaging  applications  that can meet a customer's  storage and
retrieval needs.

During fiscal 1996, foreign sales of the document management segment represented
13% of the Company's  consolidated  revenue.  Foreign sales made  principally to
Germany,  the  United  Kingdom,  and  Canada,  represented  39%,  18%,  and 15%,
respectively, of total foreign sales of the Company.

Telecommunications Segment

The Company  markets its products and services  principally to customers with 25
or more  telephones and those  customers with complex,  expanding voice and data
management  needs.  The  Company  focuses  on  those  customers  who do not have
significant  infrastructure  to  support  their  telecommunications  needs,  but
instead,  seek to  outsource  this  function.  The  Company  strives  to provide
outstanding  customer  service and support long after the initial sale, and sees
it as critical to being able to expand the product and service  offerings to its
customers.  The Company maintains a highly trained force of service technicians,
design  engineers,  communications  consultants  and  project  coordinators  who
provide  on-site and remote  service and support.  As of September 30, 1996, the
Company had  approximately  3,000 customers in its  telecommunications  segment.
During  fiscal  years  1996,   1995  and  1994,   no  single   customer  in  the
telecommunications  segment  accounted  for more  than  10% of the  consolidated
Company revenue.

The Internet Services Segment

The Internet services segment focuses  exclusively on business customers with 10
to 100  employees.  As of September 30, 1996 the Internet  services  segment had
approximately 1,600 users on its network.

Competition

Document Management Segment

The document management industry is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. The
Company  competes  on the  basis  of  breadth  of  offering  different  document
management  solutions,  cost,  flexibility  and  customer  service.  The Company
competes with Anacomp,  Eastman  Kodak,  InSci and Mobius,  among others.  These
competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial,
technical,  marketing, and other resources, as well as greater name recognition,
than the Company.

Telecommunications Segment

The telecommunications  industry is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. The
Company  competes on the basis of customer  service,  flexibility and breadth of
offering different  technological  products and solutions.  The Company competes
with Lucent Technologies, Inc., Northern Telecom, Siemens, and the Regional Bell
Operating  Companies  ("RBOCs")  in  the   telecommunicating   business.   These
competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial,
technical,  marketing, and other resources, as well as greater name recognition,
than the  Company.  In addition,  the  Regional  Bell  Operating  Companies  are
currently  subject  to  a  variety  of  government   regulations   limiting  the
manufacture,  marketing  and  sale  of  certain  products  and  services  in the
telecommunications  market which restrictions,  if eliminated or lessened, could
adversely impact the Company's business.

Internet Services Segment

The  Internet  services  market  is highly  competitive  and  rapidly  evolving,
especially  with the  introduction of flat rate monthly service and offerings by
the major  carriers  (e.g.  MCI,  Sprint and  AT&T).  In  addition  to the major
carriers,  the  Internet  services  segment  competes  with a number  of  local,
regional and national Internet service providers (e.g. PSINet,  Uunet,  Netcom).
The Internet  services  segment competes on the basis of being a single point of
contact for all Internet related solutions.  Additionally, the Internet services
segment provides its customers with quality  connections by not  oversubscribing
its network with consumer traffic.

Raw Materials

Document Management Segment

Raw  materials  for COM  Systems  consist of  purchased  parts from third  party
vendors.  The Company believes that it can source purchased parts from a variety
of vendors and that no one single  vendor  possesses a critical  component  that
can't be purchased elsewhere.

The document  management segment purchases a significant amount of its microfilm
and media  supplies  from Eastman  Kodak.  The Company  believes it has a strong
partnership with Eastman Kodak;  however,  alternative supplies are available in
the event of an interruption in the vendor relationship.

The  document  management  segment  purchases  all of its  products  pursuant to
purchase orders and has no long-term purchase commitments.

Telecommunications Segment

The telecommunications  segment purchases all of the equipment and software that
it markets and installs from third party  vendors.  The majority of the products
sold by the segment are purchased from Fujitsu Business  Communication  Systems,
Inc. and Executone Information Systems. Other parts and components necessary for
installation  and  service  are  purchased  from a variety of sources  and,  the
Company  believes,   are  readily  available  from  alternative   sources.   The
telecommunications  segment  purchases all of its products  pursuant to purchase
orders and has no long-term purchase commitments.

Internet Services Segment

The Internet  services segment  connects  customers to the Internet using a high
speed MCI DS3 circuit.  Customers  connect to the Company's  network using fiber
and copper  facilities of PacBell,  Metropolitan  Fiber, and Cable and Wireless.
The  availability  of circuits is  dependent  on the  capacity of MCI's  central
office,  the  physical  locations of copper and fiber optic cable from Pac Bell,
Metropolitan   Fiber  and  other   customer   demand.   Recent  changes  in  the
telecommunications  law has allowed more  companies to compete in local  markets
for connectivity.  The Company believes that connectivity will be available from
a variety of sources.

Seasonality

The  Company  believes  that  none  of its  segments  are  subject  to  seasonal
fluctuations.

Backlog

Document Management Segment

As of September 30, 1996, the document  management  segment had signed  customer
contracts of $3.4  million,  all of which are expected to be delivered in fiscal
1997.  The  segment  had  approximately  $1.0  million  in signed  contracts  at
September 30, 1995, all of which were delivered during fiscal 1996.

Telecommunications Segment

As of September 30, 1996,  the  telecommunications  segment had signed  customer
contracts for $4.8 million,  all of which are expected to be delivered in fiscal
1997.  The  segment  had  approximately  $1.5  million  of signed  contracts  at
September 30, 1995, all of which were delivered during fiscal 1996.

Internet Services Segment

The backlog of the Internet  services segment was  insignificant as of September
30, 1996.

Research and Development

Document Management Segment

The Company  believes  that the  development  of new products  and  solutions is
critical for the future growth of the document management segment. During fiscal
1996,  the Company  spent  approximately  $1.1 million on  development  efforts.
Equally  critical,  however,  is the collective  knowledge and experience of the
Company's  management  and  personnel to develop and market new solutions in the
document management market place.

Telecommunications and Internet Services Segments

The  telecommunications  and Internet  services  segments are not engaged in any
substantial research and development.

Employees

As of September  30, 1996,  the Company and its  subsidiaries  had 209 full-time
employees and four  part-time  employees.  The Company also utilizes  contracted
labor to assist in its production process.


Item 2.  Properties

The Company leases an aggregate of approximately  126,000 square feet of office,
warehouse and manufacturing  space. The document management segment leases space
in Mountain View, California and Lincolnshire,  Illinois. The Telecommunications
segment leases space in Lenexa, Kansas;  Wichita,  Kansas;  Columbia,  Missouri;
Milwaukee,  Wisconsin;  Chicago,  Illinois  and  Buffalo  Grove,  Illinois.  The
Internet  services  segment  leases  space in  Mountain  View,  California.  The
corporate office is located in Lake Forest, Illinois.  Currently,  approximately
44,000 square feet are sub-let to third parties.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

The Company has no material pending litigation.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None

                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market  for the  Registrant's  Common  Equity and  Related  Stockholder
         Matters

The Common  Stock of the Company is  principally  traded on the  American  Stock
Exchange ("AMEX").  The high and low sales prices for the stock reported on AMEX
for each quarterly period during the past two fiscal years were as follows:

 Quarter Ending                             High                          Low
 ----------------------------------        ------                       -------
 1995
 December 31, 1994                        $ 7-3/4                       $ 6-1/8
 March 31, 1995                             7-1/2                         6-1/8
 June 30, 1995                              7-7/8                         5-7/8
 September 30, 1995                        15-7/8                         7-3/4

1996
 December 31, 1995                         14-3/8                         9-1/4
 March 31, 1996                            10-7/8                             8
 June 30, 1996                              9-3/8                       6-13/16
 September 30, 1996                            8                         5-7/16

There were  approximately 416 record holders of the Company's Common Stock as of
December 30, 1996. The closing price for the Company's  Common Stock on December
30, 1996 was $4-9/16. The Company paid no dividends during the period October 1,
1993 to September 30, 1996.  The Company does not intend to pay dividends on its
Common Stock in the foreseeable future.



<PAGE>



Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth for the periods selected  consolidated  financial
and operating  data for the Company.  The  statement of  operations  and balance
sheet  data  have  been  derived  from  the  Company's   consolidated  financial
statements.   The  selected  consolidated  financial  data  should  be  read  in
conjuction with  "Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition
and Results of Operations"  and the  consolidated  financial  statements and the
notes thereto included elsewhere in this report.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                       Fiscal years ended September 30,

                                           1992          1993          1994         1995(b)      1996(c)
                                                      (In thousands, except per share data)
Statement of Operations Data (a):

<S>                                     <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>

Net sales                                  $  7,569      $  9,408      $  9,629     $  21,252   $  41,387
Cost of sales                                 5,702         6,612         6,532        15,137      27,137
                                        ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ----------

Gross profit                                  1,867         2,796         3,097         6,115      14,250
                                        ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ----------

Operating expenses:
     Selling, engineering and
        general and administrative            2,213         3,106         3,234         7,136      14,316
     Amortization of goodwill and
        transaction costs                         8             -           152           451       1,280
     Write-off of acquired in-process
        un-proven technology                      -             -             -         5,000           -
     Cost associated with change in
        products and other                        -             -             -             -       2,834
     Acquisition costs and other                  -             -             -         1,318           -
                                        ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ----------

Total operating expenses                      2,221         3,106         3,386        13,905      18,430
                                        ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ----------

Loss from continuing operations               (354)         (310)         (289)       (7,790)     (4,180)

Interest expense                               (40)          (56)         (615)         (650)     (1,597)
Gain on sale of available-for-sale
   securities                                     -             -             -             -       5,689
Other income (expense)                           58            72          (31)          (28)          52
                                        ------------  ------------  ------------  ------------  ----------

     Loss from continuing operations
       before income taxes and
       extraordinary items                     (336)         (294)         (935)       (8,468)        (36)

Provision (benefit) for income taxes           (50)           187           378           124           -
                                        ============  ============  ============  ============  ==========

Net loss before discontinued operations
     and extraordinary items               $  (286)      $  (481)    $  (1,313)    $  (8,592)     $  (36)
                                        ============  ============  ============  ============  ==========

Primary loss per share from
   continuing operations                  $  (0.08)     $  (0.14)     $  (0.35)     $  (1.97)    $
                                                                                                   (0.01)
                                        ============  ============  ============  ============  ==========
Weighted average shares outstanding           3,537         3,555         3,802         4,353       5,818
                                        ============  ============  ============  ============  ==========
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data, Continued
<TABLE>

Balance Sheet Data (a):                                           September 30

                                           1992          1993          1994          1995         1996
- ----------------------------------------------------  ------------  ------------ ------------- -----------
                                                                 (In thousands)
<CAPTION>
<S>                                     <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>

Working capital                              $  618      $  1,344      $  (798)      $  3,488    $  1,713
Total assets                                  2,758         3,175         5,646        35,396      25,586
Long-term debt, net of current portion           33           197           123        12,434      10,598


Shareholders' equity                          1,515         1,384         2,436        11,685       3,793
Cash dividends paid                               -             -             -             -           -


<FN>

(a)      Restated  to reflect the  acquisition  of Kansas  Communications,  Inc.
         ("KCI") on September 15, 1995, accounted for as a pooling of interests.

(b)      Includes the results of operations of Communicate  Direct, Inc. ("CDI")
         and   Micrographic   Technology   Corporation   ("MTC")   since   their
         acquisitions on October 28, 1994 and September 15, 1995, respectively.

(c)      Includes  the results of  operations  of the  Milwaukee  operations  of
         Executone  Information  Systems,  Inc. and MediaCity World,  Inc. since
         their   acquisitions   on  December   29,  1995  and  June  21,   1996,
         respectively.
</FN>
</TABLE>


Item     7.  Management's  Discussion  and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and
         Results of Operations

General

The  Company  took a number of  strategic  steps  during  fiscal 1996 that had a
significant impact on the results of operations.

In June  1996,  CDI  signed an  agreement  with  Inacom  Corporation  and Lucent
Technologies,   Inc.  ("Lucent")  to  become  the  only  distributor  of  Lucent
Technology's  Definity PBX products in the Chicago,  IL metropolitan  area other
than Inacom and  Lucent.  In  connection  with the change in product  line,  CDI
repositioned its operations to focus on higher-end, technology driven companies.
In connection  with this  distribution  agreement and the  repositioning  of its
operations, the Company incurred one-time charges of $1.3 million for severance,
asset write-downs and other.

In addition to the change in product line, CDI sold its non-application oriented
interconnect  business to Next Call,  Inc. ("Next Call") for a $600,000 ten year
note receivable. In connection with the sale, CDI agreed to lend Next Call up to
$1.0 million to fund operating losses,  as defined,  for the first twelve months
of operations.  The loan agreement required CDI to make advances to Next Call on
a monthly basis to cover  operating cash short falls.  Next Call was required to
repay such advances when it became profitable on a cumulative  basis.  After the
first twelve  months,  any amount still  outstanding  on such advances was to be
forgiven. Subsequent to year-end, Next Call ceased operations. CDI advanced Next
Call  $195,000 to fund  operating  losses which has been included in the loss on
sale of business.

As a result of the sale to Next  Call and the  uncertainty  resulting  from Next
Call's  subsequent shut down, the Company incurred a $6.1 million  extraordinary
charge in fiscal 1996.  The components of the  extraordinary  charge include the
write-off  of goodwill  which arose from the initial  purchase of CDI in October
1994;  deferred  acquisition  costs associated with the purchase of CDI; reserve
for  the  note  receivable  from  Next  Call;   severance  payments;   inventory
write-downs;  write-offs of leasehold improvements;  warranty reserve and other.
The Company  recorded $5.0 million of the one-time  charges in the third quarter
of fiscal 1996 and the  remaining  $1.1 million in the fourth  quarter of fiscal
1996. As a result of these write-offs,  future amortization expense for goodwill
and deferred  acquisition  costs was reduced on a pretax basis by  approximately
$535,000 annually. The loss resulting from the disposition of certain assets and
the assumption of certain liabilities of CDI, within a two year period following
a pooling of interests has been classified as an extraordinary  item as required
by generally  accepted  accounting  principles.  This disposition of CDI was not
contemplated at the time of the pooling with KCI.

Subsequent  to  year-end,  CDI sold its  operations  that  support  its  Fujitsu
maintenance  base in the Chicago  metropolitan  area to a new company  formed by
John I. Jellinek,  the Company's former  president and chief executive  officer,
and Phillip Kenny, a former SoftNet director.  The buyer acquired certain assets
in exchange for a $209,000  promissory note and the assumption of trade payables
of at least $624,000. In addition, at the closing the buyer paid off $438,000 of
existing  Company bank debt and entered  into a sub-lease  of CDI's  facility in
Buffalo Grove,  Illinois.  At the closing, the buyer merged with Telcom Midwest,
LLC.,  and  Messrs.  Jellinek  and Kenny and the other two  shareholders  of the
merged company personally  guaranteed  obligations arising out of the promissory
note, the sub-lease arrangement and the trade payables.  The personal guarantees
of the promissory note are several. The personal guarantees of the sub-lease are
limited  to  $400,000  and  are on a  joint  and  several  basis.  The  personal
guarantees of trade payables are on a joint and several basis but are limited to
Messrs. Jellinek and Kenny.  Concurrent with this transaction,  Messrs. Jellinek
and Kenny resigned from the Company's board. The transaction was approved by the
disinterested members of the Company's board.

The interconnect  businesses sold by CDI in June 1996 and subsequent to year end
sustained significant losses since the acquisition of CDI in October 1994

In June 1996, the Company acquired the exclusive worldwide  manufacturing rights
to IMNET Systems, Inc.'s MegaSAR Microfilm Jukebox and completed and amended its
obligations  under a previous  agreement.  In addition to becoming the exclusive
manufacturer  of the MegaSAR for IMNET,  the Company will further  integrate the
device into its current product offering. The Company issued a $2.9 million note
for prepaid  license fees,  software  inventory, the  manufacturing  rights, and
certain other payables.  Approximately $2.5 million was paid on this note during
the fourth  quarter of fiscal 1996.  The Company has a receivable  from IMNET of
$176,000.

The  transaction  was  approved by the  disinterested  members of the  Company's
board.  Following  the  transaction,  John J.  McDonough  and  John I.  Jellinek
resigned from IMNET's board and James Gordon, a director of IMNET, resigned from
the Company's board.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996,  the Company  decided to integrate the
IMNET microfilm  retrieval software with another software  developer's  product,
which the Company was already distributing.  The integrated product will require
less IMNET software than previously assumed. As a result, the Company recorded a
one-time  charge of $1.5  million to  write-off  software  inventory.  Since the
acquisition of the  manufacturing  rights from IMNET, the transfer of all of the
technical  and  manufacturing   know-how  has  been  delayed  due  to  technical
difficulties. The Company is currently negotiating with IMNET to either complete
the transfer or seek an alternative solution.

On December 29, 1995, the Company acquired the Milwaukee operations of Executone
Information  Systems,  Inc.  ("Executone-Milwaukee"),  in a business combination
accounted   for  as  a   purchase.   Executone-Milwaukee   sells  and   services
telecommunications   and  voice  processing  systems.   The  purchase  price  of
approximately  $1.9 million consisted of $100,000 of cash and a note payable for
$1.8  million.  The  note  was  paid  in  February,   1996.  The  operations  of
Executone-Milwaukee  have been  included  in the  results of the  Company  since
December 29, 1995. As a result of the acquisition, the Company recorded costs in
excess of fair value of net assets acquired of $1.8 million,  an amount which is
being amortized on a straight-line basis over twenty years.

In June 1996, the Company acquired MCW in a business  combination  accounted for
as a purchase.  MCW is an Internet Service Provider with operations  principally
in the San Francisco Bay Area, CA. and Reno, NV. The purchase price consisted of
200,000  shares of the  Company's  common stock  valued at $5.11 per share.  The
Company  recorded  costs in excess of fair value of net assets  acquired of $1.2
million,  which will be amortized on a straight line basis over three years. The
Company  plans  to  focus  in the  near  term on  building  and  increasing  its
subscriber  base, which will require it to increase  significantly  its expenses
for  marketing,  network  infrastructure  and POP's,  and may  adversely  impact
short-term operating results.

The Company  expects to focus on building and  increasing  its customer  base in
each of its markets,  but in particular,  to develop a customer  profile that is
more closely aligned with the Company's overall product  strategy.  This effort,
as well as the introduction of the new products,  some of which the Company will
develop internally,  will require substantial  investment in new sales personnel
and retraining of current  technical  personnel,  which the Company believes may
have an adverse effect on short-term operating results.

Although the Company has organized itself into three operating units, comparison
to prior years by industry segments would not be meaningful as a majority of the
document   management  segment  was  acquired  in  late  fiscal  1995  and  only
contributed fifteen days of operating results to fiscal 1995.

Results of operations for the twelve months ended September 30, 1996 compared to
         1995

For the fiscal  year  ended  September  30,  1996 net sales  increased  by $20.1
million (or 95%) to $41.4 million  compared to $21.3 million for the same period
in 1995. The increase in sales was  principally a result of the  acquisitions of
MTC in September, 1995 and the Milwaukee, WI operations of Executone Information
Systems,   Inc.   ("Executone-Milwaukee")   in  December   1995.  The  Company's
acquisition of MTC and Executone-Milwaukee  added approximately $19.4 million in
net sales in the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996.  Sales from the Company's
telecommunications  segment,  exclusive of revenue  increases  attributed to the
acquisition  of  Executone-Milwaukee,  declined  slightly  due to the erosion of
operations in the Chicago metropolitan area.

For the fiscal year ended  September  30,  1996,  gross  profit  increased  $8.2
million  (or 133%) to $14.3  million  from $6.1  million  for the same period in
1995. For the fiscal year,  gross profit as a percentage of sales increased from
28.8% in 1995 to 34.4% in 1996. The  percentage  increase  relates  primarily to
inclusion of MTC's results for the fiscal year ended  September 30, 1996 and the
increased profitability for sales in the document management segment. During the
fiscal  year  ended  September  30,  1996,  in order to  conform  with  industry
practices, the Company classified certain expenses as costs of sales which under
prior  presentations  would have been  classified as general and  administrative
expenses.  Consistent  with this  presentation,  the  Company  has  reclassified
certain general and administrative expenses as cost of sales for the fiscal year
ended September 30, 1995.

Selling, engineering, general and administrative expenses increased $7.2 million
(or 101%) to $14.3  million  for the fiscal year ended  September  30, 1996 from
$7.1 million for the same period in 1995,  largely as a result of the  inclusion
of MTC's  results for the period ended  September 30, 1996 ($4.9  million),  the
increase in sales and  marketing  activities in the  telecommunications  segment
($960,000) and the increased  administrative  expenses  associated with expanded
operations ($800,000).  Amortization of goodwill and transaction costs increased
$829,000 to $1.3 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996,  compared
to $451,000 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995,  primarily as a result
of the  acquisition of MTC in September  1995, and the  amortization of deferred
acquisition costs resulting from the acquisitions of MTC and CDI.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1995, the Company incurred  one-time charges for
the write-off of unproven in-process  technology acquired in connection with the
acquisition  of MTC ($5.0  million),  certain  transaction  costs related to the
merger with KCI  ($648,000)  and other costs  resulting  from the  write-off  of
certain leasehold improvements and other restructuring activities.

During the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996, the Company signed an agreement
with Inacom  Corporation and Lucent to distribute  Lucent's Definity PBX product
in the Chicago,  Illinois  Metropolitan  area. As a result, CDI repositioned its
Chicago  operations and incurred  one-time charges of $1.3 million for severance
payments,  asset write downs and other costs.  Also during the fourth quarter of
fiscal 1996,  the Company  decided to integrate  the IMNET  microfilm  retrieval
software  with  another  software  developer's  product,  which the  Company was
already  distributing.  The integrated  product will require less IMNET software
than previously anticipated. As a result, the Company recorded a one-time charge
of $1.5 million to write off software inventory.

Interest  expense  increased  $948,000  (or 146%) to $1.6 million for the fiscal
year ended  September 30, 1996 from $650,000 in the fiscal year ended  September
30, 1995.  Interest expense  increased as a result of increased debt outstanding
during  fiscal  1996,  compared to fiscal  1995.  The  increase  in  outstanding
indebtedness was principally a result of acquisition debt and borrowings to fund
working capital.

During the fiscal year ended  September 30, 1996 the Company  realized a gain of
$5.7 million from the sale of its investment in IMNET Systems, Inc.

The Company's  provision for income taxes relates  exclusively to the operations
of KCI, for tax  liabilities  incurred prior to the merger with the Company.  No
provision  for  income  taxes  was  made for  fiscal  1996,  as a result  of net
operating  losses.  A provision  for income  taxes of $124,000  was recorded for
fiscal 1995.  At  September  30, 1996 the Company had a tax net  operating  loss
carry forward of  approximately  $7.9  million,  which begins to expire in 1999.
Given the Company's history of operating  losses, a valuation  allowance of $4.2
million has been provided in the Company's consolidated financial statements

For the fiscal year ended  September  30,  1996,  net loss  before  discontinued
operations and  extraordinary  items  decreased $8.6 million to $36,000 and loss
per share of common stock before discontinued operations and extraordinary items
decreased $1.96 to $.01,  compared to the same period in 1995.  Weighted average
outstanding  shares increased by 1.5 million or 33.7% from 4.4 million in fiscal
1995 to 5.8  million in fiscal  1996  mainly due to the  issuance  of shares for
acquisitions and the conversion of certain convertible subordinated notes.

During fiscal 1996, CDI sold its non-application  oriented interconnect business
located in the Chicago, IL metropolitan area. As a result the Company incurred a
$6.1 million extraordinary charge for the write-off of goodwill which arose from
the  initial  purchase  of CDI  in  October  1994,  deferred  acquisition  costs
associated with the purchase of CDI,  inventory  write-downs,  warranty reserves
and other.

Results of operations for the twelve months ended September 30, 1995 compared to
         1994

For the fiscal year ended  September  30,  1995,  net sales  increased  by $11.6
million (or 121%) to $21.3 million from $9.6 million for the same period in1994.
The  increase in sales was  principally  a result of the  acquisition  of CDI on
October 31, 1994 and the acquisition of MTC on September 15, 1995. The Company's
acquisition  of CDI and MTC added  approximately  $10.8  million in net sales in
1995.

For the fiscal year ended  September  30,  1995,  gross  profit  increased  $3.0
million or 97% to $6.1 million from $3.1 million for the same period in 1994, as
a result of higher net sales.  For the year,  gross  profit as a  percentage  of
sales  decreased from 32.2% in 1994 to 28.8% in 1995.  The  percentage  decrease
relates primarily to inclusion of CDI's results since November 1, 1994, the date
of  acquisition.  Generally,  CDI's sales mix includes more initial sales to new
customers, which are usually at lower gross margins. Conversely, KCI's sales mix
includes  more  sales  of  higher  margin  products  and  services  to  existing
customers.

Selling,  general and administrative  expenses increased $3.9 million or 121% to
$7.1  million  in fiscal  1995 from $3.2  million in fiscal  1994,  largely as a
result of the inclusion of CDI's results since November 1994 ($2.6 million), the
increase in sales and marketing  activities in the document  management  segment
($285,000)  and  the  increase  of  the  corporate   staff  to  accommodate  the
acquisitions  of KCI and MTC  ($248,000).  Amortization of goodwill and deferred
transaction  costs  increased  primarily  as a result of the  inclusion of CDI's
results since  November  1994.  Also in the fourth  quarter of fiscal 1995,  the
Company  incurred  one-time  charges  for the write off of  unproven  in-process
technology  acquired in connection  with the  acquisition of MTC ($5.0 million),
certain  transaction  costs related to the merger with KCI  ($648,000) and other
costs resulting from the write-off of certain  leasehold  improvements and other
restructuring activities.

Interest  expense  increased  $35,000 or 5.6% to  $650,000  in fiscal  1995 from
$615,000 in fiscal 1994. Interest expense in 1994 included non-cash amortization
of senior note discounts of $514,000. Overall cash interest expense increased as
a result of increased  borrowing  during 1995 and the inclusion of CDI's results
since November 1994.

The Company's provision for income taxes relates exclusively to the operation of
KCI, for tax  liabilities  incurred  prior to the merger with the  Company.  The
provision  for income  taxes  decreased  $253,000 or 67.0% to $124,000 in fiscal
1995 from  $377,000 in fiscal 1994 as a result of lower  taxable  income for KCI
during the twelve months ended September 30, 1995 compared to the same period in
fiscal 1994.  At September 30, 1995,  the Company had a tax net  operating  loss
carry  forward  of $11.0  million,  which  begins to  expire in 1999.  Given the
Company's history of operating losses, a valuation allowance of $2.7 million has
been provided in the Company's consolidated financial statements.

For fiscal 1995, the net loss from continuing operations increased $7.3 million.
If the unusual and non-recurring charges are excluded,  the loss from continuing
operations  increased  $961,000.  The  loss  per  share  of  common  stock  from
continuing  operations  increased  $1.62 from  fiscal  1994.  If the unusual and
non-recurring  charges  are  excluded,   the  loss  per  share  from  continuing
operations increased $.17 per share, or 49%.

Utilization  Management  Association,  Inc.  ("UMA") was disposed of in November
1995. The Company  recorded a loss of $644,000 or $.15 per share for the sale of
UMA.

Net sales  from  discontinued  operations  for  fiscal  1995 were  $860,000,  an
increase of $165,000,  or 23.7%, from net sales from discontinued  operations of
$695,000 in fiscal 1994.  The loss from the  operations  of UMA was $419,000 for
fiscal  1995,  an increase  of  $304,000  from fiscal  1994.  The  increase  was
primarily a result of higher  operating  costs in  anticipation  of higher sales
growth.  The loss per share for the  operations  of UMA was $.10 for fiscal 1995
compared to $.03 for fiscal 1994.

The net loss per share  increased  $1.84  from  $.38 in fiscal  1994 to $2.22 in
fiscal  1995 as a result of the items  discussed  previously.  Weighted  average
outstanding shares increased by 551,000 or 14.5% from 3.8 million in fiscal 1994
to 4.4  million  in  fiscal  1995  mainly  due to the  issuance  of  shares  for
acquisitions  and the sale of shares of the Company's  common stock in a private
placement transaction.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

At September 30, 1996,  the  Company's  current ratio was 1.16 to 1 with working
capital of $1.7  million.  This  compares  with a current ratio of 1.30 to 1 and
working capital of $3.3 million at September 30, 1995.

During  fiscal  1996,  the  Company  sold its entire  holdings  in IMNET for net
proceeds of $7.7 million.  Accordingly,  the Company  recorded a gain on sale of
securities of $5.7 million.

For the fiscal  year ended  September  30,  1996,  cash flows used by  operating
activities  were  $4.4  million,  compared  to $4.7 for the  fiscal  year  ended
September 30, 1995. Cash flows generated by investing  activities increased $6.2
million to $3.1  million  for fiscal 1996  compared to a use of $3.1  million in
fiscal 1995 mainly as a result of the sale of  marketable  securities  in fiscal
1996 and  decreased  acquisition  activities.  Cash flows  provided by financing
activities  decreased  $6.7  million to $1.2  million  in fiscal  1996 from $7.9
million in fiscal 1995  primarily  as a result of fewer  acquisitions  in fiscal
1996.

Beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996,  the Company  commenced a number
of cost cutting  activities  aimed at improving cash flows. The most significant
of these activities of the  telecommunications  segment included the sale of the
operations  that  supported  the  Fujitsu   maintenance   base  in  the  Chicago
metropolitan  area. As a result of the sale,  the Company  sublet  approximately
14,000 square feet of space in Buffalo Grove, Illinois, which will reduce annual
fixed rent expense by approximately $108,000, paid off $438,000 of existing bank
debt, had trade  payables of at least $624,000  assumed by the buyer and had the
employment obligations for 19 employees taken over. The Company will continue to
evaluate each of its business operations and determine where excess costs can be
eliminated or contained.

During fiscal 1996, the Company increased its line of credit borrowing  capacity
with its lender to $9.5 million. In addition, subsequent to year end the Company
received a temporary  increase in its borrowing ability whereby the Company will
be able to borrow $1.0 million in excess of its  available  assets (as defined).
The temporary increase terminates on January 31, 1997.

The Company expects to be able to finance its working capital  requirements  and
capital  expenditures  from its operating  income,  and existing  line-of-credit
facilities for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997.

Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements

Reference is made to note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated  Financial  Statements
included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.


<PAGE>


Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
                               September 30, 1996

                                                                          Page

 Report of Independent Accountants

 Consolidated Statements of Operations
      for the Years Ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994

 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 1996 and 1995

 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
      for the Years ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994

 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
      for the Years Ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


<PAGE>


                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of SoftNet Systems, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated  financial statements of SoftNet Systems,  Inc.
and Subsidiaries as listed in the preceding index to the consolidated  financial
statements.  These financial  statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our  responsibility  is to express  an  opinion on these  financial
statements based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally   accepted  auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles  used and  significant  estimates  made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  the financial  statements  referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects,  the consolidated  financial position of SoftNet Systems,
Inc and  Subsidiaries  as of  September  30, 1996 and 1995 and the  consolidated
results of their  operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period  ended  September  30, 1996 in  conformity  with  generally  accepted
accounting principles.

As discussed in Note 2 to the  consolidated  financial  statements,  the Company
adopted  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standard No. 115, " Accounting  for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" in 1995.


                                         COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.


January 14, 1997
Chicago, Illinois


<PAGE>

                     SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
             For the Years Ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                     (In thousands, except per share data)

                                       1996            1995           1994
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------

Net sales                           $   41,387     $    21,252     $    9,629
Cost of sales                           27,137          15,137          6,532
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------
   Gross profit                         14,250           6,115          3,097
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------

Operating expenses:
   Selling                               5,274           2,662            976
   Engineering                           1,820              60              -
   General and administrative            7,222           4,414          2,258
   Amortization of goodwill
      and transaction costs              1,280             451            152
   Costs associated with change
      in product lines and other         2,834               -              -
   Write off of acquired in process
      un-proven technology                   -           5,000              -
   Acquisition costs and other               -           1,318              -
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------
     Total operating expenses           18,430          13,905          3,386
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------

     Loss from continuing operations    (4,180)         (7,790)          (289)

Interest expense                        (1,597)           (650)          (615)
Gain on available-for-sale securities    5,689               -              -
Other income (expense)                      52             (28)           (31)
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------
     Loss from continuing operations
        before income taxes and
        extraordinary item                 (36)         (8,468)          (935)

Provision for income taxes                   -             124            378
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------
     Loss from continuing operations
      before extraordinary item            (36)         (8,592)        (1,313)
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------

Discontinued operations:
   Loss from operations                      -            (420)          (115)
   Loss on disposal                          -            (644)             -
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------

    Loss before extraordinary item         (36)         (9,656)        (1,428)
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------

Extraordinary item -
  Loss on sale of business              (6,061)              -              -
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------

  Net loss                        $     (6,097)   $     (9,656)   $    (1,428)
                                  =============   =============   ============

Loss per share:
  Continuing operations           $      (0.01)   $      (1.97)   $     (0.35)
  Discontinued operations                    -           (0.10)         (0.03)
  Loss on disposal                           -           (0.15)             -
  Extraordinary item                     (1.04)              -              -
                                  -------------   -------------   ------------

Net loss                          $      (1.05)   $      (2.22)   $     (0.38)
                                  =============   =============   ============

Weighted average shares
  outstanding                            5,819           4,353          3,802
                                  =============   =============   ============


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

<PAGE>

                     SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        As of September 30, 1996 and 1995
                        (In thousands, except share data)

                                                 1996                1995
                                          ----------------    ----------------
             ASSETS
Current assets:
   Cash                                           $   426             $   573
   Available-for-sale securities                        -               2,575
   Receivables, net                                 6,074               6,128
   Inventories                                      5,904               4,862
   Prepaid expenses                                   340                 357
                                          ----------------    ----------------
          Total current assets                     12,744              14,495

Property and equipment, net                         2,314               2,568
Available-for-sale securities                           4               7,157
Costs in excess of fair value
  of net assets acquired, net                       8,101               9,908
Other assets                                        2,423               1,268
                                          ----------------    ----------------
                                                  $25,586             $35,396
                                          ================    ================


            LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
   Accounts payable and accrued expenses          $ 8,672             $ 7,733
   Current portion of long term debt                  744               1,598
   Current portion of capital leases                  187                 190
   Deferred revenue                                 1,428               1,032
   Net liabilities of business
     disposed of in 1996                                -                 454
                                          ----------------    ----------------
          Total current liabilities                11,031              11,007
                                          ----------------    ----------------

Long term debt, net of current portion             10,598              12,434
                                          ----------------    ----------------

Capital Lease obligation,
  net of current portion                              164                 270
                                          ----------------    ----------------

Commitments and contingencies

Shareholders' equity:
   Preferred stock, $.10 par value,
     4 million shares authorized,
     none outstanding                                   -                   -
   Common stock, $.01 par value,
     25 million shares authorized,
     6,540,065  and 5,547,033 shares
     outstanding, respectively                         65                  55
Capital in excess of par value                     33,517              27,584
Accumulated deficit                               (29,789)            (23,692)
Unrealized appreciation
  of available-for-sale
  securities                                            -               7,738
                                          ----------------    ----------------
          Total shareholders' equity                3,793              11,685
                                          ----------------    ----------------
                                                  $25,586             $35,396
                                          ================    ================



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
                     SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
             For the Years Ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                                 (In thousands)

    <CAPTION>

                                                                                  UNREALIZED
                                                                                 APPRECIATION
                                                                 CAPITAL IN      OF AVAILABLE-
                                            COMMON STOCK          EXCESS OF        FOR-SALE         ACCUMULATED
                                       SHARES        AMOUNT       PAR VALUE       SECURITIES          DEFICIT
                                       ----------  -----------    ------------    -----------      -----------
<S>                                    <C>         <C>           <C>            <C>               <C>
Balance, October 1, 1993                   3,606       $   36       $  13,957              -        $  (12,608)

  Common stock issued for
    investment in securities                 196            2             733              -                 -
  Common stock issued for
    finder's fee relating to
    UMA acquisition                            3            -              17              -                 -
  Settlement of related party
    receivable                                 -            -             850              -                 -
  Value assigned to warrants
    issued with Senior Notes
    payable                                    -            -             471              -                 -
  Sale of common stock                        88            1             388              -                 -
  Exercise of warrants                        10            -              18              -                 -
  Net loss                                     -            -               -              -            (1,428)
                                        ----------  -----------    ------------    -----------      -----------
Balance, September 30, 1994                3,903           39          16,434              -           (14,036)

  Sale of common stock,
    net of issuance costs                    200            2             708              -                 -
  Value assigned to options
    and warrants issued
    with the extension of
    of Senior Notes payable                    -            -              66              -                 -
  Exercise of warrants                       100            1             187              -                 -
    connection with acquisitions,
    net of issuance costs                  1,143           11           7,533              -                 -
  Conversion of long-term
    debt                                     201            2           1,628              -                 -
  Settlement of related party
    receivable                                 -            -           1,028              -                 -
  Change in unrealized
    appreciation of available-
    for-sale securities                        -            -               -          7,738                 -
  Net loss                                     -            -               -              -            (9,656)
                                        ----------  -----------    ------------    -----------      -----------
Balance, September 30, 1995                5,547           55          27,584          7,738           (23,692)

  Exercise of warrants                        12            -              21              -                 -
  Settlements of related party
    receivable                                 -            -             815              -                 -
  Conversion of convertible
    subordinated notes                       781            8           4,077              -                 -
  Common stock issued in connection
    with acquisitions, net of
    acquisition costs                        200            2           1,020              -                 -
  Change in unrealized appreciatio
    of available-for-sale securities           -            -               -         (7,738)                -
  Net loss                                     -            -               -              -            (6,097)
                                        ----------  -----------    ------------    -----------      -----------

Balance, September 30, 1996                6,540       $   65      $   33,517           $  -           (29,789)
                                        ==========  ===========    ============    ===========      ============
</TABLE>

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.


<PAGE>
                     SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
              For the Years Ended September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                                 (In thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                        ---------------------------------------------
                                                                            1996            1995            1994
                                                                        -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                                                     <C>             <C>             <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
    Net loss                                                             $    (6,097)    $    (9,655)    $    (1,428)
    Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used by
      operating activities:
      Write-off of acquired in-process un-proven technology                        -           5,000               -
      Depreciation and amortization                                            1,997             822             163
      Acquisition costs                                                            -             648               -
      Net change of liabilities of discontinued operations                         -             586               -
      (Gain) loss on the disposal of property and equipment                       (3)            393               -
      Gain on sale of available-for-sale securities                           (5,689)              -               -
      Deferred income taxes                                                        -             (12)             (8)
      Debt discount and deferred financing amortization                           95              87             514
      Provision for bad debts                                                    155              67               -
      Loss on sale of business                                                 6,061               -               -
      Changes in  operating  assets and  liabilities,  net of
        effect of purchase transactions and disposal
        of discontinued operations:
            Receivables                                                         (741)         (1,208)           (232)
            Inventories                                                       (1,756)         (1,707)            (79)
            Prepaid expenses                                                       3             160            (319)
            Accounts payable and accrued expenses                              1,365             (46)            860
            Deferred revenue                                                     207             196             (44)
                                                                        -------------   -------------   -------------
                Net cash used in operating activities                         (4,403)         (4,669)           (573)
                                                                        -------------   -------------   -------------

Cash flows from investing activities:
    Net cash paid in connection with acquisitions                             (2,055)         (2,562)            (26)
    Purchase of prepaid software licenses                                     (1,000)              -               -
    Purchase of property and equipment                                          (973)         (1,418)           (173)
    Additions to capitalized product design                                     (462)              -               -
    Settlement of remaining obligations to owners of
      discontinued operations                                                   (117)              -               -
    Proceeds from sale of investment securities                                7,678           1,027               -
    Purchase of investment securities                                              -               -            (463)
    Increase in other assets                                                       -            (134)              -
    Proceeds from the sale of property and equipment                              28              31               -
                                                                        -------------   -------------   -------------
                Net cash provided (used) by investing activities               3,099          (3,056)           (662)
                                                                        -------------   -------------   -------------

Cash flows from financing activities:
    Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt, net of deferred
      financing costs                                                              -           4,131             920
    Repayment of long-term debt                                                 (178)           (979)           (550)
    Borrowings under revolving credit note                                    12,802           6,904               -
    Payments under revolving credit note                                     (11,923)         (1,684)              -
    Proceeds from settlement of related party receivable                         815               -             850
    Repayment of prior revolving credit facility                                   -          (1,208)              -
    Proceeds from the sale of available-for-sale securities                        -             720             389
    Payment for put obligation                                                  (200)              -               -
    Proceeds from the exercise of warrants                                        22             169              18
    Capitalized lease obligations paid                                          (181)           (202)           (102)
                                                                        -------------   -------------   -------------
                Net cash provided by financing activities                      1,157           7,851           1,525
                                                                        -------------   -------------   -------------

Net increase (decrease) in cash                                                 (147)            126             290
Cash, beginning of period, net of cash of discontinued operations                573             447             198
                                                                        -------------   -------------   -------------
Cash, end of period                                                      $       426     $       573     $       488
                                                                        =============   =============   =============
</TABLE>

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
consolidated financial statements.
<PAGE>



                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


1.       Nature of Business and Basis for Presentation

SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  is  engaged in the
business  of  developing,   marketing,   installing  and  servicing   electronic
information   and  document   management   systems   that  allow   customers  to
electronically  request  and  electronically  receive  information.  The Company
operates through three segments:  document  management,  telecommunications  and
Internet  services.   The  document   management   segment  designs,   develops,
manufactures   and  integrates   comprehensive,   non-paper  based  systems  and
components  that enable the Company to deliver to its  customers  cost-effective
solutions for the storage,  indexing and/or distribution of high-volume computer
generated  or entered  information.  The  telecommunications  segment  sells and
services  telephone  and  computer  hardware  manufactured  by others to provide
communications  solutions  through the design,  implementation,  maintenance and
integration  of voice,  data and video  communications  equipment  and services.
Additionally,  the telecommunications  segment sells and installs local and long
distance network  services.  The Internet  services  segment  provides  Internet
access,  World Wide Web and database development and Internet  training targeted
solely to business customers.

On September  15, 1995, a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company  merged with
Kansas Communications,  Inc. ("KCI"), which was the surviving corporation in the
merger,  pursuant to an  Agreement  and Plan of  Reorganization  dated March 24,
1995,  by and  between the  Company  and KCI (see Note 3). The  transaction  was
accounted for as a pooling of interests for  financial  reporting  purposes and,
accordingly,  the financial  statements of the merged companies  relating to all
periods presented have been restated and are presented on a combined basis. Upon
effectiveness  of the merger,  KCI changed its fiscal year end to  September  30
from  March  31.  KCI's   financial   statements  have  been  restated  and  are
consolidated for the same periods as the Company's fiscal year.

During  1995,  the  Company  adopted a formal  plan to  dispose  of  Utilization
Management Association, Inc., a medical cost containment business.  Accordingly,
the  results of  discontinued  operations  and the  estimated  loss on  disposal
thereof have been  reported  separately  from the  continuing  operations of the
Company for fiscal 1995 and 1994 (see Note 5).

The preparation of financial  statements in conformity  with generally  accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets  and  liabilities  and  disclosure  of
contingent  assets and  liabilities at the date of the financial  statements and
the  reported  amounts of revenues  and expenses  during the  reporting  period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated  financial  statements include the accounts of SoftNet Systems,
Inc. ("SoftNet") and its subsidiaries ("Company").  All significant intercompany
accounts  and   transactions   have  been   eliminated  in  preparation  of  the
consolidated financial statements.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial  instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist primarily of trade receivables.  Credit risk is minimized as
a result of the large number and diverse nature of the Company's  customers.  As
of September 30, 1996, the Company had no significant  concentrations  of credit
risk.



Significant Customer

For the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996, one customer, accounted for 13% of
the Company's  consolidated revenue. No single customer of the Company accounted
for more than 10% of the Company's consolidated revenue in fiscal 1995 or 1994.

Inventories

Inventories  are  stated  at the lower of cost or market  and are  comprised  of
purchased  component  parts.  Cost is determined  using the first-in,  first-out
method.  The  components of inventories as of September 30, 1996 and 1995 are as
follows (in thousands):
                                                          1996            1995
                                                          ----            ----

         Raw materials                                $  3,154        $  3,545
         Work-in-process                                   853             410
         Finished goods                                  1,897             907
                                                         -----           -----
                                                      $  5,904        $  4,862
                                                      ========        ========

Receivables

The Company has recorded an allowance for uncollectible accounts of $371,000 and
$67,000 at September  30, 1996 and 1995,  respectively.  No such  allowance  was
recorded at September 30, 1994.

Property and Equipment

Property  and  equipment  are carried at cost less  allowances  for  accumulated
depreciation.  The cost of property and equipment  held under capital  leases is
equal to the lower of the net present value of the minimum lease payments or the
fair value of the leased  property at the  inception  of the lease.  Repairs and
maintenance are charged to expense as incurred.

Depreciation  is computed by the  straight-line  method over the useful lives of
the related  assets.  The estimated  useful lives range from three to five years
for  equipment  to seven  years  for  property,  principally  office  furniture.
Amortization of capital leases is included with depreciation expense.

Capitalized Software Costs

Certain costs of acquired software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed are
capitalized and amortized over the economic useful life of the related  software
product,  which is generally five years.  Net unamortized  capitalized  software
costs,   which  resulted  from  the  acquisition  of   Micrographic   Technology
Corporation  ("MTC"), are included in other non-current assets and were $792,000
and $991,000 at September 30, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

Prepaid Software License

During fiscal 1996, the Company  acquired an exclusive  worldwide  manufacturing
right to certain microfilm retrieval  technology in exchange for the pre-payment
of fees for 250  software  licenses.  Accordingly,  the Company  has  recorded a
pre-paid  license  fee of  $1.0  million  in  other  non-current  assets  in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets (see Note 14).

Investments in Equity Securities

In 1995, the Company adopted Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No. 115 "Accounting for Certain  Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." The
adoption of SFAS No. 115 resulted in an increase to shareholders'  equity in the
fourth  quarter of 1995 of $7.7 million upon the  completion  by IMNET  Systems,
Inc.  ("IMNET") of its initial  public  offering of common stock.  Prior to this
offering,  there had been no public market for this common  stock.  At September
30, 1995,  the Company's  investment in marketable  equity  securities  has been
classified as available-for-sale and as a result is stated at fair value. During
fiscal 1996 the Company sold its entire holdings of IMNET and realized a gain of
$ 5.7 million.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The fair value of the Company's  debt,  current and  long-term,  is estimated to
approximate the carrying value of these  liabilities  based upon borrowing rates
currently available to the Company for borrowings with similar terms.

Costs in Excess of Fair Value of Net Assets Acquired

The  excess of costs of  acquired  companies  over the fair  value of net assets
acquired  (goodwill) is amortized on a straight-line  basis over 10 to 20 years.
Amortization  expense  for fiscal 1996 and 1995 was $1.3  million and  $471,000,
respectively.  During  fiscal  1996 the  Company  wrote-off $3.6  million of net
goodwill resulting from the sale of the  non-application  oriented  interconnect
business in Chicago, IL (see Note 5). Accumulated  amortization at September 30,
1996 and 1995 was $943,000 and $471,000, respectively.

The Company assesses the recoverability of unamortized goodwill by reviewing the
sufficiency of estimated future operating income and undiscounted  cash flows of
the related entities to cover the amortization during the remaining amortization
period.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue from sales and installation of telephone systems,  computer hardware and
peripheral  telephone  system products is recognized for contracts over $100,000
on the percentage of completion method and on the completed  contract method for
all others,  which does not differ  materially from the percentage of completion
method.  Revenue from maintenance contracts covering parts and labor on existing
systems is recognized on a monthly basis over the term of each contract.

Revenue from the  document  management  segment is  generated  from four primary
sources,   including   product  sales,   installations,   royalty  and  on-going
maintenance.   Product  sales  and  installation  revenue  are  recognized  upon
shipment,  installation,  or final  customer  acceptance,  depending on specific
contract terms. Installation revenue is recognized on a percentage-of-completion
basis.  Royalty revenue is recognized  monthly based upon estimated  maintenance
fees and is subject to verification  against actual fees on a semi-annual basis.
Revenue from on-going maintenance is recognized as services are completed.

Revenue  from the  Internet  services  segment is  generated  from  initial  and
recurring  monthly Internet access, World Wide Web and database  development and
Internet training.  Set-up fees for Internet access customers is recognized upon
completion of the service.  Monthly  access fees are  recognized in the month of
service.  World Wide Web development and Internet training revenue is recognized
upon completion of the service.

Research and Development

Research and  development  is  principally  incurred by the document  management
segment.  During fiscal 1996, the Company expended $1.1 million for research and
development

Income Taxes

Statement  of Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 109 - Accounting  for Income
Taxes, which revised  certain  financial accounting and reporting  standards for
income taxes, was adopted by the Company effective October 1, 1993. The adoption
of Statement No. 109 did not have a material  effect on the Company's  financial
statements.  In accordance with this financial accounting standard,  the Company
recognizes  the amount of taxes payable or  refundable  for the current year and
recognizes  deferred  tax  liabilities  and assets for the  expected  future tax
consequences  of  events  and  transactions  that have  been  recognized  in the
Company's  financial  statements  or tax  returns.  The  Company  currently  has
substantial  net operating loss  carryforwards.  The Company has recorded a 100%
valuation  allowance against net deferred tax assets due to uncertainty of their
ultimate realization.

Loss Per Share

Loss per  share is  based  on the  weighted  average  number  of  common  shares
outstanding during the periods.  Common stock equivalents  (outstanding  options
warrants and  convertible  securities)  are not included in the  computations of
loss per share since their effect is anti-dilutive.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In October 1995,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board  ("FASB")  issued
Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standard  ("SFAS") No. 123 - "Accounting for
Stock Based  Compensation."  Under the  provisions of this  statement,  the fair
value of stock options issued may be determined by using an option-pricing model
that takes into account the stock price at the grant date,  the exercise  price,
the expected life of the option,  the volatility of the underlying stock and the
expected dividends on it, and the risk-free interest rate over the expected life
of the option.  The statement  also  provides for  valuation of nonvested  stock
(usually  referred to as restricted  stock) and employee stock  purchase  plans.
Valuation  for stock issued under these various plans using the fair value based
method  described  above may result in  compensation  costs to the issuer at the
grant date and is  recognized  over the  service  period,  which is usually  the
vesting period.  Reporting  compensation for these plans under this statement is
optional.  Companies  choosing  not to value  stock  options or  similar  equity
instruments  under the fair value based method must provide pro forma disclosure
amounts that reflect the difference  between  compensation  cost included in net
income and the related cost  measured by the fair value based method  defined in
SFAS No. 123, including tax effects,  if any, that would have been recognized in
the income  statement if the fair value based method had been used.  Adoption of
this  statement  is required for  transactions  entered into in years that begin
after December 15, 1995.

The Company is in the process of reviewing the effects of this statement and has
not decided  whether or not to adopt the  preferable  fair value based method of
accounting for  stock-based  compensation as it relates to the issuance of stock
options.

Reclassifications

Certain  reclassifications  have  been  made  in the  1995  and  1994  financial
statements to conform with the 1996 presentation.




3.       Merger


On September  15, 1995, a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of the Company  merged into
Kansas  Communications,  Inc.  ("KCI")  pursuant  to an  Agreement  and  Plan of
Reorganization dated March 24, 1995, by and between the Company and KCI. The KCI
shareholders  received  1.3  million  shares of the  Company's  common  stock in
exchange for all of the outstanding shares of KCI. The business  combination was
accounted for as a pooling of interests and, accordingly,  the operations of KCI
have been included with the results of the Company for all periods presented.

KCI is a Kansas City-based  company which sells and services  telephone systems,
third-party  computer hardware and application oriented peripheral products such
as voice mail, automated attendant systems, interactive voice response (IVR) and
video conferencing systems.

The  following  are the net revenue from  continuing  operations  and net income
(loss) of the  separate  companies  for the  periods  preceding  the  merger (in
thousands):

                                   SoftNet
                                 Systems, Inc.          KCI            Combined
                              ----------------     ----------     -------------
   Nine months ended
   June 30, 1995 (Unaudited):
   Net sales                          $  8,285        $  7,564        $  15,849
   Net (loss) income                    (1,777)            272           (1,505)

   Fiscal year ended
   September 30, 1994:
   Net sales                                188          9,441            9,629
   Net income (loss)                    $(1,763)          $450          $(1,313)

In connection with the merger, the Company recorded  transaction related charges
of $648,000 in fiscal  1995.  The merger  costs  relate to expenses  incurred to
consummate the transaction,  including investment banking,  legal and accounting
fees.


4.  Acquisitions

         Milwaukee Operations of Executone Management Systems, Inc.

On December 29, 1995, the Company acquired the Milwaukee operations of Executone
Information  Systems,  Inc.  ("Executone-Milwaukee"),  in a business combination
accounted for as a purchase.  Executone-Milwaukee sells and services proprietary
voice  processing  systems.  The purchase  price of  approximately  $1.9 million
consisted of $100,000 of cash and a note payable for $1.8 million.  The note was
paid in February 1996. The operations of Executone-Milwaukee  have been included
in the results of the Company since December 29, 1995.

As a result of the  acquisition,  the Company  recorded  costs in excess of fair
value of net assets acquired of $1.8 million, an amount which is being amortized
on a straight-line basis over twenty years.

         MediaCity World, Inc.

On June 21, 1996, the Company  acquired  MediaCity  World,  Inc.  ("MCW"),  in a
business  combination  accounted for as a purchase.  MCW is an Internet  Service
Provider with  operations in the San  Francisco Bay Area and Reno,  Nevada.  The
purchase price consisted of 200,000 shares of the Company's  common stock valued
at $5.11 per share.  The  operations of MCW have been included in the results of
the Company since June 21, 1996.

As a result of the  acquisition of MCW, the Company  recorded costs in excess of
fair value of net assets  acquired  of $1.2  million,  an amount  which is being
amortized on a straight line basis over three years.

         Communicate Direct, Inc.

On October 31, 1994, the Company acquired  Communicate Direct, Inc. ("CDI") in a
business combination accounted for as a purchase. CDI is a Chicago-based company
which sells and services  telephone systems,  third-party  computer hardware and
application oriented peripheral products such as voice mail, automated attendant
systems,  interactive voice response ("IVR") and video conferencing systems. The
operations  of CDI have been  included  with the  results of the  Company  since
November 1, 1994.

The Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of CDI for $1.9 million,  such
consideration consisting of 290,858 shares of the Company's Series A Convertible
Preferred  Stock  ("Preferred  Shares")  valued at $6.00 per share and cash.  In
April  1995,  the  Preferred  Shares  were  converted  into  common  shares on a
one-for-one  basis  following  the approval of the Company's  shareholders.  The
acquisition price has been adjusted for settlement of an earn-out  agreement and
resolution of certain post-closing purchase  adjustments.  The cost in excess of
fair value of net assets acquired incurred in connection with the acquisition of
CDI of $4.2 million was originally to be amortized on a straight-line basis over
ten years. During fiscal 1996, the Company sold a significant portion of the CDI
business.  As a result  the  Company  wrote off the  unamortized  balance of the
goodwill which arose from the original acquisition (see Note 5).

         Micrographic Technology Corporation

On September 15, 1995, the Company acquired Micrographic  Technology Corporation
("MTC") pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated March 24, 1995
in a  business  combination  accounted  for as a  purchase.  MTC is a  designer,
developer, manufacturer and integrator of comprehensive, non-paper based systems
and  components  that  enable  MTC to deliver  to its  customers  cost-effective
solutions for storage,  indexing and/or  distribution of high-volume output data
streams.  The MTC shareholders'  received 778,000 shares of the Company's common
stock valued at $6.95 per share, $1.1 million in cash and $2.8 million principal
amount of the  Company's  debentures.  The  operations of MTC have been included
with the results of the Company since September 16, 1995.

The cost in excess of fair value of net assets  acquired  incurred in connection
with  the   acquisition  of  MTC  of  $6.1  million  is  being  amortized  on  a
straight-line  basis  over  ten  years.  Additionally,  in  connection  with the
acquisition  of MTC, the Company  incurred a one-time  fourth  quarter charge in
fiscal 1995 of $5.0 million for the  write-off of acquired  in-process  unproven
technology.

The  following  unaudited  pro  forma  summary  presents  information  as if the
acquisitions  accounted  for as purchases  had occurred at the beginning of each
fiscal year. The pro forma  information is provided for  informational  purposes
only. It is based on historical information and does not necessarily reflect the
actual  results that would have  occurred nor is it  necessarily  indicative  of
future results of operations of the combined  enterprise  (in thousands,  except
per share data):

                                                            Years Ended
                                                            September 30
                                                             (unaudited)
                                                  ----------------------------
                                                    1996        1995       1994
                                                    ----        ----       ----

     Net sales from continuing operations        $42,270     $40,020    $36,280
     Net loss from continuing operations            (328)     (9,175)   (10,572)
     Net loss per share                           $(0.05)     $(2.02)    $(2.03)


5.       Divestitures

Utilization Management Associates, Inc.

During  September  1995,  the  Company's  Board of Directors  approved a plan to
rescind its November 1993 acquisition of Utilization Management Associates, Inc.
("UMA"). The plan provided for the exchange of the Company's interest in UMA for
all  common  shares  of the  Company  held by the  former  shareholders  of UMA,
including  related put options,  and the  cancellation  of SoftNet stock options
held by the former shareholders of UMA.

Effective  November 20, 1995,  the plan was executed  such that the Company paid
the former shareholders of UMA $200,000 in  satisfaction of its common stock put
obligation and received in exchange  29,630 shares of SoftNet  common stock.  In
addition,  the  Company  paid  approximately  $300,000 in cash and notes for the
termination  of  non-compete,   employment,   and  earn-out  agreements  and  an
irrevocable  and  unconditional  release  of the  Company  from any  outstanding
obligations and liabilities to UMA or the shareholders of UMA.

In connection  with the  disposition,  the Company  recorded loss on disposal of
discontinued  operations  of  $644,000,  along  with  a loss  from  discontinued
operations  of $419,000 and $115,000 for the years ended  September 30, 1995 and
1994,  respectively.  Such  amounts  have not been  adjusted  for any income tax
effect given the  Company's  net operating  loss  carryfoward.  At September 30,
1995, UMA represented approximately $116,000 and $53,000 of the Company's assets
and liabilities,  respectively. For the years ended September 30, 1995 and 1994,
UMA contributed revenue of approximately $860,000 and $695,000, respectively, to
the consolidated revenues of the Company.

Communicate Direct, Inc.

In June  1996,  CDI  sold its  non-application  oriented  interconnect  business
located in the Chicago,  IL  metropolitan  area to Next Call, Inc. ("Next Call")
for a $600,000 ten year note receivable. In connection with the sale, CDI agreed
to lend Next Call up to $1.0 million to fund operating losses,  as defined,  for
the first  twelve  months of  operations.  The loan  agreement  required  CDI to
advance cash to Next Call on a monthly basis to cover operating cash short fall.
Next Call was required to repay such  advances  when it became  profitable  on a
cumulative  basis.  After the first twelve months,  any amount still outstanding
from Next Call shall be forgiven. As of September 30, 1996, the Company had made
$189,000 in advances  pursuant to this agreement.  Subsequent to year-end,  Next
Call ceased operations.

As a result of the sale to Next  Call and the  uncertainty  resulting  from Next
Call's  subsequent shut down, the Company  incurred an  extraordinary  charge of
$6.1 million for the loss on the sale of this business,  including the write-off
of  unamortized  goodwill  which  resulted  from the initial  purchase of CDI in
October 1994,  deferred  acquisition  costs associated with the purchase of CDI,
severance payments, inventory, leasehold improvements, the notes receivable from
Next Call and all  amounts  loaned to the  buyer.  The loss  resulting  from the
disposition of certain assets and the assumption of certain  liabilities of CDI,
within a two year period following a pooling of interests has been classified as
an extraordinary item as required by generally accepted  accounting  principles.
This  disposition  of CDI was not  contemplated  at the time of the pooling with
KCI.

Subsequent  to  year-end,  CDI sold its  operations  that  support  its  Fujitsu
maintenance  base in the Chicago  metropolitan  area to a new company  formed by
John I. Jellinek,  the Company's former  president and chief executive  officer,
and Phillip Kenny, a former SoftNet director.  The buyer acquired certain assets
in exchange for a $209,000  promissory note and the assumption of trade payables
of at least $624,000. In addition, at the closing the buyer paid off $438,000 of
existing  Company bank debt and entered  into a sub-lease  of CDI's  facility in
Buffalo Grove,  Illinois.  At the closing, the buyer merged with Telcom Midwest,
LLC.,  and  Messrs.  Jellinek  and Kenny and the other two  shareholders  of the
merged company personally  guaranteed  obligations arising out of the promissory
note, the sub-lease arrangement and the trade payables.  The personal guarantees
of the promissory note are several. The personal guarantees of the sub-lease are
limited  to  $400,000  and  are on a  joint  and  several  basis.  The  personal
guarantees of trade payables are on a joint and several basis but are limited to
Messrs. Jellinek and Kenny.  Concurrent with this transaction,  Messrs. Jellinek
and Kenny resigned from the Company's board. 



6.       Change in Products

In  June,   1996,  the  Company   signed  an  agreement  to  distribute   Lucent
Technologies,  Inc. products in the Chicago, IL metropolitan area. In connection
with  this   distribution   agreement  and  the  repositioning  of  its  Chicago
operations,  the Company incurred one-time charges of $1.3 million for severance
payments, asset write-downs and other.

Included in the fourth  quarter 1996 results is a charge of $1.5 million for the
write-down of certain software  inventory  resulting from the Company's decision
to discontinue the  distribution of certain imaging  products in favor of others
(see Note 14).

7.       Significant Fourth Quarter Events

Operating  results in the fourth  quarter of fiscal 1996  include the effects of
the following:

         A. A $3.8  million  gain on the sale of  available-for-sale  securities
           (see notes 2 and 14).

         B. A charge of $1.5 million  related to the write-off of IMNET software
            inventory (see notes 6 and 14).

         C. An extraordinary charge of $1.1 million related to the sale of CDI's
            non-application oriented interconnect business (see note 5).

8.       Property and Equipment

Balances of major classes of fixed assets and  allowances  for  depreciation  at
September 30, 1996 and 1995 are as follows(in thousands):


                                                1996               1995
                                                ----               ----

   Leasehold improvements                       $227               $845
   Furniture and fixtures                      1,630              1,300
   Vehicles                                       83                 61
   Equipment                                   1,644              1,094
                                               -----              -----
           Total                               3,584              3,300

   Less allowance for depreciation            (1,270)              (732)
        and amortization
                                              -------              ----

   Property and equipment, net                 $2,314             $2,568
                                               ======             ======



<PAGE>


9.  Debt


       Debt is summarized as follows (in thousands):


                                                             1996         1995
                                                          --------       ------

    Revolving Credit Note with maximum borrowings of
     $9.5 million, bearing interest, payable monthly, at
     the bank's prime rate plus 1% (the bank's prime
     rate being 8.25% at September 30, 1996).  The note
     matures on October 15, 1997                            $6,099       $3,890

    9% Convertible Debentures due September 2000,
     interest payable quarterly, convertible into the
     Company's common shares at $6.75 per share              2,856        2,856

    9% Convertible Subordinated Notes due December
     1998, interest payable quarterly, subordinated to
     all other liabilities of the Company, convertible
     into the Company's common shares at $5.00 per
     share                                                      75        2,189

    6% Convertible Subordinated Debentures, due
     February 2002 with semi-annual interest payments,
     convertible into the Company's common stock at
     $8.10 per share (subject to adjustment for anti-
     dilution)                                                 780        1,800

    Bank loan dated November 20, 1995, bearing interest
     at prime plus 1%, payable monthly, principal due
     February 1, 1996                                            -        1,330

    10% Convertible Subordinated Notes due October
     1999, bearing interest, payable quarterly, at 10%
     for the first two years only and no interest
     thereafter, subordinated to all other liabilities
     of the Company, convertible into the Company's
     common shares at $4.10 per share                          300        1,250

    Promissory note due July 11, 1997, interest payable
     at maturity accruing at prime                             409            -

    Promissory  notes  due  each  November  1996
     and 1997 in  equal  payments,  interest payable
     in arrears on each principal due date accruing at 8.75%   200            -


    Bank loan dated July 10, 1995, bearing interest at
     prime plus 1%, principal and interest due in 60
     monthly payments with final payment due July 2000         391          493

    Bank loan dated April 13, 1995, bearing interest
     at prime plus 1%, principal and interest due in 48
     monthly installments with final payment due April
     1999                                                       85          113

    Bank loan dated August 25, 1995, bearing interest
     at prime plus 1%, principal and interest due in 36
     monthly installments with final payment due August
     1998                                                       74          111

    Other                                                       73            -
                                                         ---------    ---------
                                                            11,342       14,032
                                                         ---------    ---------
 Less current portion of debt                                 (744)      (1,598)
              Total long-term debt                       $  10,598    $  12,434
                                                         =========    =========


<PAGE>


During  fiscal 1996,  the Company  increased  the maximum  borrowings  under its
revolving credit note $3.0 million to $9.5 million.  The availability  under the
revolving  credit  note is subject to  revisions  on a monthly  basis based upon
available  assets (as defined).  Subsequent to year end, the Company  received a
temporary  increase in its borrowing ability whereby the Company will be able to
borrow  $1.0  million in excess of  available  assets.  The  temporary  increase
expires on January 31, 1997.  The revolving  credit note and the bank term loans
(issued  from the same  bank) are  collateralized  by  substantially  all of the
assets of the Company.

In connection with the issuance of the 10% Convertible  Subordinated  Notes, the
Company issued warrants to purchase 298,000 shares of the Company's common stock
exercisable  for five years  expiring in 1999 at an exercise price of $6.875 per
share.

During fiscal 1996,  holders of 6%, 9% and 10%  convertible  subordinated  notes
converted $4.1 million face amount of notes into 781,000 shares of the Company's
common stock.  An additional  $100,000 of 10% notes were  converted  into 24,000
shares of the Company's common stock after year end.

In  October  1994,  in order to  extend  the  maturity  of  $745,000  of  Senior
Subordinated notes, the Company issued warrants to purchase 89,000 shares of the
Company's  common stock at prices ranging from $6.125 to $7.875 (market price at
the end of each month during the period the notes were extended). As of April 1,
1995, the $450,000 of notes were repaid and the remaining  principal of $295,000
together with accrued  interest  thereon,  was exchanged for the 9%  Convertible
Subordinated Notes described above.

In connection  with the  acquisition  of MTC, the Company issued $2.9 million of
its 9%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  (the  "MTC  9%  Debentures")  due
September 2000. The MTC 9% Debentures are subordinated to senior indebtedness of
the Company and are  convertible  after  September 15, 1996,  into the Company's
common  stock at $6.75 per share.  The MTC 9%  Debentures  may be prepaid by the
Company in whole or in part at 102% of face value  through  September  15, 1997,
and at face value thereafter.

Also in connection with the acquisition of MTC, the Company assumed $1.8 million
of  6%  Convertible  Subordinated  Secured  Debentures  (the  "Debentures")  due
February 2002. The Debentures are convertible into the Company's common stock at
$8.10 per share.  The  Debentures are subject to redemption at the option of the
Company at face value,  provided,  however, that the Company issues common stock
purchase  warrants  to  purchase  the same  number of shares as would  have been
issuable if the Debentures were converted.  During fiscal 1996,  certain holders
of the  debentures  converted $1.0 million face amount  Debentures  into 126,000
shares of the Company's common stock.

Subsequent   to   year-end,   the   Company   sold   certain   assets   of   its
telecommunications  segment for cash, a note  receivable  and the  assumption of
certain  liabilities.  The  Company  used the  proceeds  from the sale to retire
certain bank loans in the  principal  amount of $438,000  plus accrued  interest
(see note 5).

Aggregate  maturities  of long-term  debt for each of the next five fiscal years
are as follows (in thousands):

                    1997      $   744
                    1998        6,380
                    1999          198
                    2000        3,240
                    2001            -
                    2002          780


10.      Sale of Common Stock

On October 26, 1994,  the Company  sold 200,000  shares of its common stock in a
Regulation S offering at $4.00 per share.  In connection with the sale of common
stock,  the Company  incurred  fees of $90,000  and issued  warrants to purchase
250,000  shares of its common  stock  exercisable  for five years at an exercise
price of $6.875 per share (fair market value at the date of grant).

11.      Capitalized Lease Obligations and Other Lease Commitments

The Company leases computer  equipment and certain other office  equipment under
leases  which are capital in nature.  The Company has net assets of $520,000 and
$320,000  under  these  capital  leases  as of  September  30,  1996  and  1995,
respectively.

The Company has entered into operating leases for office space and manufacturing
facilities.  These leases  provide for minimum  rents.  These  leases  generally
include options to renew for additional periods.  The Company's rent expense for
the years ended  September 30, 1996,  1995 and 1994 was  $755,000,  $282,000 and
$100,000, respectively.

The aggregate  amount of the lease payments  under capital and operating  leases
for  each of the  five  fiscal  years  ending  September  30 is as  follows  (in
thousands):

                                                Capital           Operating
                                                 leases              leases
                                           -------------      --------------

           1997                                    $227                $832
           1998                                     111                 569
           1999                                      45                 289
           2000                                      23                 250
           2001                                      10                 111
                                           -------------      --------------
           Total minimum
           lease payments                           416              $2,051
                                                              ==============

           Amount representing
           interest                                (65)
                                           -------------

           Present value of net
           minimum payments                         351
           current portion                        (187)
                                           -------------

           Capital lease obligation                $164
                                           =============

Subsequent to year-end,  the Company sublet its remaining  obligation for leased
space in Buffalo  Grove,  Illinois.  As a result,  the Company has decreased its
minimum operating lease commitments by approximately  $505,000 from 1997 through
2001.


<PAGE>



12.      Income Taxes

The  Company's  provision  for  income  taxes in  fiscal  1995 and 1994  relates
exclusively to the operations of KCI, for tax liabilities  incurred by KCI prior
to the merger with the Company.

The  components  of the provision for income taxes are as follows for the fiscal
years ending September 30 (in thousands):

                                   1996              1995                1994
                                   ----              ----                ----
 Current
 Federal                           $  -            $  113              $  321
 State                                -                23                  64
                             -----------     -------------      --------------
 Total current                        -               136                 385
                             -----------     -------------      --------------

 Deferred
 Federal                              -              (10)                 (7)
 State                                -               (2)                 (1)
                             -----------     -------------      --------------
 Total deferred                       -              (12)                 (8)
                             ===========     =============      ==============
                                  $   -            $  124              $  377
                             ===========     =============      ==============

The  types  of  temporary  differences  between  the tax  basis  of  assets  and
liabilities  and their  financial  reporting  amounts that give rise to deferred
taxes at  September  30 and the  approximate  tax effects   are as  follows (in
thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                              1996                             1995
                                                  -------------------------         ---------------------
                                                   TEMPORARY            TAX          TEMPORARY        TAX
                                                  DIFFERENCE         EFFECT         DIFFERENCE     EFFECT

      <S>                                         <C>             <C>               <C>           <C>
      Securities received in settlement of
        related party receivable                     $    -         $    -         $  2,400        $  816
      Capital loss carryforward                           -              -              722           245
      Reserve for the write-off of
        discontinued operations                           -              -              544           185
      Inventory and other operating reserves           1,240           422              387           132
      Allowance for doubtful accounts                    541           184              104            35
      Reserve for note receivable                        624           212               -             -
      Unpaid accruals                                    794           270               77            26
      Reserve for lease termination                       75            26              250            85
      Deferred revenue                                 1,369           465               14             5
      Other                                               (9)           (3)              72            24
      Net operating loss carryforwards                 7,854         2,670           10,990         3,737
                                                                    ------                         ------
                Total deferred tax asset                             4,246                          5,290
                                                                                                   ------
       Unrealized appreciation of available-
         for-sale securities                                            -            (7,738)       (2,631)
                                                                                                   ------
       Total deferred tax liabilities                                   -                          (2,631)
                                                                                                   ------
       Valuation allowance                                          (4,246)                        (2,659)
                                                                   -------                         ------
       Net deferred tax asset                                    $       -                       $      -
                                                                ==========                      =========
</TABLE>


A valuation allowance was recorded as a reduction to the deferred tax assets due
to the  uncertainty  of the ultimate  realization  of future  benefits from such
deferred taxes.

Net operating loss  carryforwards of approximately $7.9 million are available as
of September 30, 1996 to be applied against future taxable income.  In addition,
net  operating  loss   carryforwards  of  approximately   $750,000  acquired  in
connection with the acquisition of MTC are available to reduce recorded goodwill
when utilized. The net operating loss carryforwards expire between 1999 and 2009
and are  subject to certain  annual  limitations  as a result of the  changes in
equity ownership.

13.      Stock Options and Warrants

During fiscal 1995 the Company  adopted the 1995 Long Term  Incentive  Plan (the
"1995 LTIP") whereby the Company, under the direction of the committee appointed
by the  Board of  Directors,  can grant a variety  of  stock-based  compensation
awards.  The Company has reserved  600,000  shares for issuance  under the plan.
Outstanding options and warrants to purchase shares of common stock at September
30, 1996,  1995 and 1994 were as follows (in thousands,  except price per option
data):


                                            Shares             Price per option
                                     -------------             ----------------

Outstanding at September 30, 1993              383                     $  1.750
   Granted                                     357                  1.750-6.125
   Canceled                                      -                            -
   Expired                                       -                            -
   Exercised                                   (10)                       1.750
                                     -------------

Outstanding at September 30, 1994              730                  1.750-6.125
   Granted                                     924                  1.750-8.500
   Canceled                                     (4)                      4.0429
   Expired                                       -                            -
   Exercised                                  (100)                       1.750
                                     -------------

Outstanding at September 30, 1995            1,550                  1.750-8.500
   Granted                                     574                 8.125-10.000
   Canceled                                   (542)                 6.500-8.250
   Expired                                       -                            -
   Exercised                                   (13)                       1.750
                                     -------------

Outstanding at September 30, 1996            1,569           $  1.750-$  12.750
                                     =============


Shares  available  under the Plan were 303,000 and 600,000 at September 30, 1996
and 1995, respectively.  As of September 30, 1996, 1995 and 1994, there were 1.2
million,   1.3  million  and  729,000   exercisable   options,   and   warrants,
respectively.

During fiscal 1996, the Board of Directors  elected to reduce the exercise price
on 117,000  options from $12.75 to $8.25 per share,  the market price on the day
the board took such  action.  In addition,  subsequent  to year-end the Board of
Directors  elected to reduce the exercise price on 297,000 options from $8.25 to
$4.94 per share, the market price on the day the board took such action.

During  fiscal  1995,  the Company  granted,  subject to  shareholder  approval,
150,000  options to its  chairman  at $6.50 per share when the market  price was
$12.75 per share.  Had the  shareholders  approved the option grant, the Company
would have  recorded  $1.1 million of  compensation  expense over the three year
vesting  period.  At the election of the  Company's  chairman,  the options were
withdrawn from consideration by the shareholders and, therefore, never approved.
Accordingly,  no compensation expense was recorded during fiscal 1996 related to
this grant.

Subsequent  to year-end, the Board of  Directors  elected to increase the shared
reserved  for the 1995 LTIP to 1.5 million  shares.  The  increase in the shares
reserved is subject to shareholder approval.


14.      Related Party Transactions

As of  September  30,  1994,  the Company  was owed $4.2  million  plus  accrued
interest by Ozite Corporation  (Ozite). A director of the Company and the former
Chairman of the Board held substantial  interests in Ozite. Due to uncertainties
about  collecting  these funds,  the  receivable  from Ozite was written off and
charged  against  earnings in 1991,  and,  accordingly no amount related to this
receivable is recorded on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

On July 26, 1995, Ozite  shareholders  approved a merger of Ozite with Pure Tech
with Pure Tech being the  surviving  corporation.  As a condition of the merger,
Ozite was required to secure a general release from the Company and to surrender
certain  securities  in  satisfaction  of the amount owed to the  Company.  As a
result,  the Company received 311,000 shares of Pure Tech common stock,  267,000
shares of Artra Group Incorporated  (ARTRA) Common Stock and 932 shares of Artra
Preferred Stock. Subsequently,  the Company sold all 311,000 shares of Pure Tech
for net proceeds of $1.0 million,  which was recorded as a capital  contribution
during fiscal 1995.  During fiscal 1996, the remaining  securities were sold for
net proceeds of $815,000, which was recorded as a capital contribution.

Subsequent  to  year-end,  CDI sold its  operations  that  support  its  Fujitsu
maintenance  base in the Chicago  metropolitan  area to a new company  formed by
John I. Jellinek,  the Company's former  president and chief executive  officer,
and Phillip Kenny, a former SoftNet director.  The buyer acquired certain assets
in exchange for a $209,000  promissory note and the assumption of trade payables
of at least $624,000. In addition, at the closing the buyer paid off $438,000 of
existing  Company bank debt and entered  into a sub-lease  of CDI's  facility in
Buffalo Grove,  Illinois.  At the closing, the buyer merged with Telcom Midwest,
LLC.,  and  Messrs.  Jellinek  and Kenny and the other two  shareholders  of the
merged company personally  guaranteed  obligations arising out of the promissory
note, the sub-lease arrangement and the trade payables.  The personal guarantees
of the promissory note are several. The personal guarantees of the sub-lease are
limited  to  $400,000  and  are on a  joint  and  several  basis.  The  personal
guarantees of trade payables are on a joint and several basis but are limited to
Messrs. Jellinek and Kenny.  Concurrent with this transaction,  Messrs. Jellinek
and Kenny resigned from the Company's board. The transaction was approved by the
disinterested members of the Company's board.

In June 1996, the Company acquired the exclusive worldwide  manufacturing rights
to IMNET MegaSAR  Microfilm  Jukebox and  completed and amended its  obligations
under a previous agreement.  In addition to becoming the exclusive  manufacturer
of the MegaSAR for IMNET, the Company will further integrate the device into its
current  product  offering.  The Company  issued a $2.9 million note for prepaid
license fees,  software inventory,  the manufacturing  rights, and certain other
payables.  Approximately  $2.5  million  was paid on this note during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1996. The Company has a receivable from IMNET of $176,000.

During the fourth  quarter of fiscal 1996,  the Company  decided to  discontinue
distributing the IMNET microfilm retrieval software in favor of another software
developer's product. As a result, the Company recorded a one-time charge of $1.5
million to write off  software  inventory  which is  included  under the caption
costs  associated  with  change in product  lines and other in the  accompanying
consolidated   statements  of   operations.   Since  the   acquisition   of  the
manufacturing  rights  from IMNET,  the Company has been unable to  successfully
transfer  all of the  technical  and  manufacturing  know-how.  The  Company  is
currently  negotiating  with IMNET to either  complete  the  transfer or seek an
alternative solution.

During  fiscal  1996,  the  Company  sold its entire  holdings  in IMNET for net
proceeds of $7.7 million.  Accordingly,  the Company  recorded a gain on sale of
the securities of $5.7 million.

15.      Supplemental Cash Flow Information


                                              1996         1995         1994
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
                                                        (in thousands)
Cash paid during the year for :
     Interest                                  $1,730         $465          $69
     Income taxes                                   -          194          161

Non-cash investing and financing activities:
     Common stock issued for acquisitions       1,020        7,931            -
     Securities   received  in  settlement
         of  $4,150,000  related  party
         receivable, at net realized value          -        1,027            -
     Convertible subordinated debt issued
         for acquisitions                           -        2,856            -
     Common stock issued for the conversion
         of subordinated notes                  4,077        1,630            -
     Conversion of Senior Notes and accrued
         interest to 9% Convertible Notes           -          309            -
     Equipment acquired by capital lease           89          332           50


16.      Segment Information

The  Company  operates   principally  in  three  industry   segments:   document
management, telecommunications and Internet services.  The Company's acquisition
of MTC  in  September,  1995,  significantly  broadened  its  operations  in the
document management industry.  Prior to the acquisition,  the Company's document
management  operations were immaterial,  and accordingly,  are not presented for
fiscal 1994. Although the Company acquired MCW, an Internet service provider, in
June of  1996,  its  revenue  and  results  of  operations  in  fiscal  1996 are
immaterial.

(In thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              As of and for the Years Ended September 30,
                                        -------------------------------------------------------
                                           1996                 1995                 1994
                                        ------------        -------------        --------------
           <S>                          <C>                 <C>                  <C>    
           Net Sales
           Document Management            $  19,417             $  1,112                 $   -
           Telecommunications                21,803               20,140                 9,441
           Other                                167                    -                   188
                                        ------------        -------------        --------------
                                          $  41,387            $  21,252              $  9,629
                                        ============        =============        ==============

           Loss from continuing
           operations before income
           taxes and extraordinary item
           Document Management             $  (227)  (a)      $  (6,325)  (b)            $   -
           Telecommunications               (1,812)  (c)         (1,116)  (d)              827
           Other                              2,003  (e)         (1,027)               (1,762)
                                        ------------        -------------        --------------
                                            $  (36)           $  (8,468)              $  (935)
                                        ============        =============        ==============

           Identifiable Assets
           Document Management              $14,426              $11,262                    $-
           Telecommunications                 8,706               11,911                 2,846
           Corporate                          1,134               12,223                 2,801
           Other                               1302                    -                     -
                                        ------------        -------------        --------------
                                          $  25,586            $  35,396              $  5,647
                                        ============        =============        ==============

           Depreciation and
           Amortization Expense
           Document Management                 $958                 $139                    $-
           Telecommunications                   623                  628                    84
           Corporate                            306                   55                    79
           Other                                110                    -                     -
                                        ------------        -------------        --------------
                                           $  1,997               $  822                $  163
                                        ============        =============        ==============

           Capital Expenditures
           Document Management              $   614                $   2                 $   -
           Telecommunications                   242                1,084                    98
           Corporate                            100                  332                    75
           Other                                 17                    -                     -
                                        ------------        -------------        --------------
                                             $  973             $  1,418                $  173
                                        ============        =============        ==============
<FN>
     (a)  Includes  $1.5  million  charge for costs  associated  with  change in
          products
     (b)  Includes $5.0 million charge for the write-off of acquired  in-process
          unproven technology
     (c)  Includes $700,000 charge for costs associated with change in products
     (d)  Includes $472,000 of costs related to acquisitions
     (e)Includes $5.7 million gain on sale of available-for-sale securities
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


Item     9. Changes In and  Disagreements  With  Accountants  on Accounting  and
         Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.


<PAGE>





PART III

Item 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of Registrant

The  information  required  by this  Item is set  forth  in  registrant's  Proxy
Statement  for the Annual  Meeting of  Shareholders  to be held on March 4, 1997
under the  caption  "Election  of  Directors"  and  "Executive  Officers  of the
Company", which information is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The  information  required  by this  Item is set  forth  in  registrant's  Proxy
Statement  for the Annual  Meeting of  Shareholders  to be held on March 4, 1997
under the caption  "Compliance  with Section  16(a) of the Exchange  Act," which
information is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11.   Executive Compensation

The  information  required  by this  Item is set  forth  in  registrant's  Proxy
Statement  for the Annual  Meeting of  Shareholders  to be held on March 4, 1997
under the  caption  "Executive  Compensation"  and under the  caption  "Board of
Directors", which information is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The  information  required  by this  Item is set  forth  in  registrant's  Proxy
Statement  for the Annual  Meeting of  Shareholders  to be held on March 4, 1997
under the caption "Securities  Beneficially Owned by Principal  Shareholders and
Management", which information is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The  information  required  by this  Item is set  forth  in  registrant's  Proxy
Statement  for the Annual  Meeting of  Shareholders  to be held on March 4, 1997
under the  caption  "Certain  Relationships  and  Related  Transactions",  which
information is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


<PAGE>





                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

         FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS
         
         1.    Financial Statements

               See  Index  to  Financial   Statements  and  Financial  Statement
               Schedules on page __ of this report.

         2.    Financial Statement Schedules
                                                                           Page
               Included in Part IV of this Form 10-K are the following:   

               Report of Independent Accountants on Financial
                     Statement Schedule                                     ___

               Financial  Statement Schedule for the Three Years
                     Ended September 30, 1996                               ___

               II - Valuation Accounts and Reserves                         ___


         3.    Exhibits

               See Index to Exhibits on page __ of this report.


         REPORTS ON FORMS 8-K.

               No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the last
               quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.
<PAGE>

                                    SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.

                                     SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.


                                     By:  /s/ John J. McDonough
                                          John J. McDonough
                                          Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

  Signature               Title                            Date


   /s/ John J. McDonough  Chairman of the Board of         January 13, 1997
  John J. McDonough       Directors, Chief Executive
                          Officer and Director
                          (Principal Executive Officer)


  /s/ A.J.R. Oosthuizen   President, Chief Operating       January 13, 1997
  A.J.R. Oosthuizen       Officer and Director


  /s/ Martin A. Koehler   Vice President - Finance         January 13, 1997
  Martin A. Koehler       (Principal Financial Officer 
                          and Principal Accounting Officer)


  /s/ Ian B. Aaron        Director                         January 13, 1997
  Ian B. Aaron

  
  /s/ John G. Hamm        Director                         January 13, 1997
  John G. Hamm
  

  /s/ Ronald I. Simon     Director                         January 13, 1997
  Ronald I. Simon


<PAGE>




                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and
   Shareholders of SoftNet Systems, Inc.


Our report on the consolidated  fiancial statements of SoftNet Systems, Inc. and
Subsidiaries  is included on page __ of this Form 10-K. In  connection  with our
audits of such financial statements,  we have also audited the related financial
statement schedule listed in the index on page __ of this Form 10-K

In our  opinion,  the  finacial  statement  schedule  referred  to  above,  when
considered  in  relation  to the basic  financial  statements  taken as a whole,
represent  fairly,  in all  material  aspects,  the  information  required to be
included therein.




                                             COOPERS & LYBRAND, L.L.P.



Chicago, Illinois
January 14, 1997

<PAGE>

                                                                    Schedule II


                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                                 (in thousands)


Allowance for
Doubtful Accounts

                    Beginning                                      Ending
                     Balance    Expensed  Deductions               Balance
                    ---------   --------  ----------               -------
10/01/95               $  342     $  347      $  318   09/30/96     $  371
 
10/01/94                   64        321          43   09/30/95        342
 
10/01/93                   59          5           -   09/30/94         64

<PAGE>

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibits included herein:

EXHIBIT 2         Plan of Acquisition, Reorganization,  Arrangement, Liquidation
                  or Succession

                  2.1       PURCHASE AGREEMENT dated as of December 31, 1995, by
                            and between EXECUTONE  INFORMATION SYSTEMS,  INC., a
                            Virginia corporation and Kansas Communications, Inc.

                  2.2       ASSET PURCHASE AGREEMENT dated as of the 17th day of
                            June,  1996, by and between Extreme  Communications,
                            Inc., an Illinois  corporation,  Communicate Direct,
                            Inc., an Illinois corporation,  and SoftNet Systems,
                            Inc., a New York corporation.

                  2.3       AGREEMENT  FOR THE  PURCHASE  AND SALE OF CERTAIN OF
                            THE ASSETS OF  COMMUNICATE  DIRECT,  INC. made as of
                            the 9th day of December, 1996, by and between NEWTEL
                            BUFFALO  GROVE,  INC., an Illinois  corporation  and
                            COMMUNICATE  DIRECT,  INC., an Illinois  corporation
                            and a  wholly-owned  subsidiary of SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc., a New York Corporation
                            .


EXHIBIT 3         Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws

                  3.1       Amended and Restated  Articles of  Incorporation  of
                            the  Registrant as filed in the  Department of State
                            of New York on April 4, 1996.


EXHIBIT 10        Material Contracts


                  10.1      EMPLOYMENT  AGREEMENT  ,  dated  this  16th  day  of
                            October, 1996, by and between SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.,
                            a New  York  corporation  ,  Kansas  Communications,
                            Inc., a Kansas  corporation,  and DALE H.  SIZEMORE,
                            JR.

                  10.2      MANUFACTURING  AND DISTRIBUTION  LICENSE  AGREEMENT,
                            dated  July 12,  1996 by and  among  IMNET  Systems,
                            Inc., a Delaware  corporation,  having its principal
                            place of  business  in  Atlanta,  Georgia ,  SoftNet
                            Systems,  Inc., a New York  corporation,  having its
                            principal place of business in Lake Forest, Illinois
                            and SoftNet's wholly-owned subsidiary,  Micrographic
                            Technology   Corporation,   a  Delaware  corporation
                            having its  principal  place of business in Mountain
                            View, California.

                  10.3      LOAN  MODIFICATION  AGREEMENT  made and entered into
                            this 14th day of March, 1996, by and between SOFTNET
                            SYSTEMS,  INC., a New York Corporation,  COMMUNICATE
                            DIRECT, INC., an Illinois Corporation , MICROGRAPHIC
                            TECHNOLOGY  CORPORATION,   a  Delaware  Corporation,
                            KANSAS  COMMUNICATIONS,  INC., a Kansas  Corporation
                            and WEST SUBURBAN BANK.
                     
                  10.4      LOAN MODIFICATION  AGREEMENT  (EXTENSION OF MATURITY
                            DATE)  made  and  entered  into  this  15th  day  of
                            November,  1996,  by and  between  SOFTNET  SYSTEMS,
                            INC., a New York  Corporation,  COMMUNICATE  DIRECT,
                            INC.,  an  Illinois   Corporation   ,   MICROGRAPHIC
                            TECHNOLOGY  CORPORATION,  a Delaware  Corporation  ,
                            KANSAS  COMMUNICATIONS,  INC., a Kansas  Corporation
                            and WEST SUBURBAN BANK.

                  10.5      LOAN MODIFICATION  AGREEMENT  (TEMPORARY INCREASE OF
                            BORROWING  BASE  LIMITATIONS)  made and entered into
                            this  20th day of  November,  1996,  by and  between
                            SOFTNET  SYSTEMS,  INC.,  a New York  Corporation  ,
                            COMMUNICATE DIRECT,  INC., an Illinois Corporation ,
                            MICROGRAPHIC  TECHNOLOGY  CORPORATION,   a  Delaware
                            Corporation , KANSAS COMMUNICATIONS,  INC., a Kansas
                            Corporation and WEST SUBURBAN BANK.


                  10.6      LOAN   MODIFICATION   AGREEMENT   (MODIFICATION   OF
                            BORROWING  BASE  DEFINITION)  made and entered  into
                            this  27th day of  November,  1996,  by and  between
                            SOFTNET  SYSTEMS,  INC.,  a New York  Corporation  ,
                            COMMUNICATE DIRECT,  INC., an Illinois  Corporation,
                            MICROGRAPHIC  TECHNOLOGY  CORPORATION,   a  Delaware
                            Corporation,  KANSAS COMMUNICATIONS,  INC., a Kansas
                            Corporation and WEST SUBURBAN BANK.

EXHIBIT 21        Subsidiaries

EXHIBIT 27        Financial Data Schedule



<PAGE>


Exhibits incorporated herein by reference:


EXHIBIT 2         Plan of Acquisition, Reorganization, Arrangement,  Liquidation
                  or Succession

                  2.1       Agreement and Plan of Reorganization,  dated October
                            28, 1994 by and among  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.,  CDI
                            Acquisition Corp.,  Communicate  Direct,  Inc., Marc
                            Zionts and Ian Aaron.(b)

                  2.2       Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated March 24,
                            1995 among SoftNet  Systems,  Inc., KCI  Acquisition
                            Corp.,   Kansas   Communications,   Inc.,   Sizemore
                            Enterprises   and  Gerald  Tousey  and  Cleo  Tousey
                            (attached    as    Appendix    I   to   the    Proxy
                            Statement/Prospectus  included  in the  Registration
                            Statement  on Form  S-4,  as  amended,  Registration
                            Number   33-95542).   The  registrant  will  furnish
                            supplementally  a copy of all omitted  Exhibits  and
                            Schedules  to  Exhibit  2.2 upon the  request of the
                            Commission.  Incorporated by reference to Appendix I
                            to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4,
                            as amended, Registration No. 33-95542.

                  2.3       Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated March 24,
                            1995 among SoftNet  Systems,  Inc., MTC  Acquisition
                            Corp.,  and Micrographic  Technology  Corporation as
                            amended  by  Amendment  No. 1 dated as of  August 8,
                            1995   (attached   as   Appendix  II  to  the  Proxy
                            Statement/Prospectus  included  in the  Registration
                            Statement  on Form  S-4,  as  amended,  Registration
                            Number   33-95542).   The  registrant  will  furnish
                            supplementally  a copy of all omitted  Exhibits  and
                            Schedules  to  Exhibit  2.3 upon the  request of the
                            Commission. Incorporated by reference to Appendix II
                            to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4,
                            as amended, Registration No.
                            33-95542.

EXHIBIT 3         Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws

                  3.2       By-Laws of the Company  included  in Exhibit 3(b) to
                            the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the
                            fiscal year ended September 30, 1993.

EXHIBIT 10        Material Contracts

                  10.1      Loan and Security  Agreement,  dated  September  15,
                            1995,  by and between West Suburban Bank and SoftNet
                            Systems, Inc. (a)

                  10.2      Revolving  Credit Note, dated September 15, 1995, in
                            the original  principal  amount of  $6,500,000  from
                            SoftNet Systems, in favor of West Suburban Bank (a)

                  10.3      SoftNet Systems, Inc. 1995 Long Term Incentive Plan.
                            (a)

                  10.4      SoftNet   Systems,   Inc.  Stock  Option   Agreement
                            (Non-Plan)  dated as of  September  15,  1995 by and
                            between SoftNet Systems, Inc. and John J. McDonough.
                            (a)

                  10.5      SoftNet   Systems,   Inc.  Stock  Option   Agreement
                            (Non-Plan)  dated as of June 12, 1995 by and between
                            SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Martin A. Koehler. (a)

                  10.6      Registration  Rights  Agreement  dated September 15,
                            1995 by and among R.C.W. Mauran,  A.J.R.  Oosthuizen
                            and SoftNet Systems, Inc. (a)

                  10.7      Employment Agreement dated September 15, 1995 by and
                            among A.J.R.  Oosthuizen,  SoftNet Systems, Inc. and
                            Micrographic Technology Corporation. (a)

                  10.8      SoftNet Systems, Inc. Employee Stock Option Plan for
                            employees of  Micrographic  Technology  Corporation.
                            (a)

                  10.9      Form  of  SoftNet   Systems,   Inc.  9%  Convertible
                            Subordinated Debentures due 2000. (a)

                  10.10     $660,000 principal amount of Micrographic Technology
                            Corporation  6%  Convertible   Subordinated  Secured
                            Debentures due 2002 issued to R.C.W. Mauran. (a)

                  10.11     Escrow  Agreement  dated  September  15, 1995 by and
                            among SoftNet Systems,  Inc., R.C.W. Mauran,  A.J.R.
                            Oosthuizen and Mellon Bank, N.A. (a)

                  10.12     Form of Stock Purchase Agreement executed by SoftNet
                            Systems,  Inc. and U.S. 6-10 Small Company Series of
                            the DFA Investment  Trust  Company,  U.S. 9-10 Small
                            Company Portfolio of DFA Investment Dimensions Group
                            Inc., DFA Group  Trust-The 6-10 Subtrust,  DFA Group
                            Trust-Small Company Subtrust. (a)

                  10.13     Employment Agreement, dated October 28, 1994, by and
                            between Communicate Direct, Inc. and Ian Aaron. (b)

                  10.14     Registration  Rights Agreement,  dated as of October
                            28, 1994, by and among SoftNet  Systems,  Inc., Marc
                            Zionts and Ian Aaron. (b)

                  10.15     Registration  Rights Agreement,  dated as of October
                            28,  1994,  by  and  among  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.,
                            Forsythe/McArthur Associates, Inc., BWJ Partnership,
                            Willard Aaron and D&K Stores, Inc. (b)

                  10.16     Registration Rights Agreement,  dated as of November
                            1, 1994, by and among SoftNet Systems, Inc., Michael
                            Cleary,  Tim  Reiland,  Dave  Prokupek,  Christopher
                            Barnes and CGRM Limited Partnership I. (b)

                  10.17     Note and  Warrant  Purchase  Agreement,  dated as of
                            November  1,  1994,  by and among  SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc.,  Michael Cleary,  Tim Reiland,  Dave Prokupek,
                            Christopher  Barnes and CGRM Limited  Partnership I.
                            (b)

                  10.18     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. 10% Convertible  Subordinated
                            Note,  dated  November  1,  1999,  in  the  original
                            principal  amount of $150,000 from SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. in favor of Michael Cleary,  Tim Reiland,  Dave
                            Prokupek,   Christopher   Barnes  and  CGRM  Limited
                            Partnership I. (b)

                  10.19     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Common Stock Purchase Warrant
                            expiring  October 31,  1999 held by Michael  Cleary,
                            Tim Reiland,  Dave Prokupek,  Christopher Barnes and
                            CGRM Limited Partnership (b)

                  10.20     Note and  Warrant  Purchase  Agreement,  dated as of
                            October 28, 1994,  by and between  SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. and D&K Stores, Inc. (b)

                  10.21     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. 10% Convertible  Subordinated
                            Note,  dated  October  26,  1994,  in  the  original
                            principal  amount of $200,000 from SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. in favor of D&K Stores, Inc. (b)

                  10.22     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Common Stock Purchase Warrant
                            expiring  October 27, 1999 held by D&K Stores,  Inc.
                            (b)

                  10.23     Note and  Warrant  Purchase  Agreement,  dated as of
                            October 28, 1994,  by and between  SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. and Willard Aaron. (b)

                  10.24     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. 10% Convertible  Subordinated
                            Note,  dated  October  26,  1994,  in  the  original
                            principal  amount of $100,000 from SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. in favor of Willard Aaron. (b)

                  10.25     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Common Stock Purchase Warrant
                            expiring October 27, 1999 held by Willard Aaron. (b)

                  10.26     Note and  Warrant  Purchase  Agreement,  dated as of
                            October 28, 1994,  by and between  SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. and BWJ Partnership. (b)

                  10.27     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. 10% Convertible  Subordinated
                            Note,  dated  October  26,  1994,  in  the  original
                            principal  amount of $100,000 from SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. in favor of BWJ Partnership. (b)

                  10.28     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Common Stock Purchase Warrant
                            expiring  October 27, 1994 held by BWJ  Partnership.
                            (b)

                  10.29     Note and  Warrant  Purchase  Agreement,  dated as of
                            October 28, 1994,  by and between  SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. and Forsythe/McArthur Associates, Inc. (b)

                  10.30     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. 10% Convertible  Subordinated
                            Note,  dated  October  26,  1994,  in  the  original
                            principal  amount of $500,000 from SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. in favor of Forsythe/McArthur  Associates, Inc.
                            (b)

                  10.31     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Common Stock Purchase Warrant
                            expiring October 27, 1999 held by  Forsythe/McArthur
                            Associates, Inc. (b)

                  10.32     Note and  Warrant  Purchase  Agreement,  dated as of
                            November 1, 1994,  by and between  SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. and Joseph Rich. (b)

                  10.33     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. 10% Convertible  Subordinated
                            Note,  dated  November  1,  1994,  in  the  original
                            principal  amount of $200,000 from SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. in favor of Joseph Rich. (b)

                  10.34     SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Common Stock Purchase Warrant
                            expiring October 31, 1999 held by Joseph Rich. (b)

                  10.35     SoftNet Systems, Inc. Subscription Agreement,  dated
                            October 27, 1994,  by and between  SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. and Compania Di Investimento Antillianna. (b)

                  10.36     Common Stock Purchase  Warrant  expiring October 27,
                            1999 held by Compania Di  Investimento  Antillianna.
                            (b)

                  10.37     Off Shore Securities Subscription  Agreement,  dated
                            October,  1994, by and between SoftNet Systems, Inc.
                            and Coutts & Co.,  A.G.,  acting in its  capacity as
                            agent for non-U.S. persons. (b)

                  10.38     Employment   Agreement   dated  September  15,  1995
                            between Dale H. Sizemore,  Jr. and SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. (a)

                  10.39     Form of SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Common Stock Purchase
                            Warrant. (a)

                  10.40     Form of SoftNet Systems, Inc. Promissory Note. (a)

                  10.41     Form  of  SoftNet   Systems,   Inc.  Note  Extension
                            Agreement. (a)

                  10.42     Form of SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.  Warrant to Purchase
                            Common Stock granted to holders of SoftNet  Systems,
                            Inc. Promissory Notes. (a)

                  10.43     Form of 9% Convertible Subordinated Note. (c)

                  10.44     Stockholders  Agreement  dated  March 24, 1995 among
                            SoftNet Systems, Inc., A.J.R.  Oosthuizen and R.C.W.
                            Mauran. (c)

                  10.45     First   Amendment   dated   September  15,  1995  to
                            Stockholders  Agreement  dated  March 24, 1995 among
                            SoftNet Systems, Inc., A.J.R.  Oosthuizen and R.C.W.
                            Mauran. (a)

                  10.46     Stock  Exchange  Agreement  dated  December 17, 1992
                            between SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Jelken Corp. (a)

                  10.47     Option to Purchase Shares of SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.
                            dated July 4, 1995,  expiring July 31, 1997 granting
                            John I. Jellinek the right to acquire 200,000 shares
                            of SoftNet Systems, Inc. common stock. (a)

                  10.48     Form of Indenture between SoftNet Systems,  Inc. and
                            U.S.  Trust  Company  of  California,   as  Trustee,
                            including   Form  of  Note,   relating   to  the  9%
                            Debentures. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2
                            to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4,
                            as amended, Registration No. 33-95542.

                  ---------------------------

                  (a)       Incorporated  by reference to exhibits of equivalent
                            number to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-KSB
                            for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995.

                  (b)       Incorporated  by reference to exhibits of equivalent
                            number to the Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K
                            dated October 31, 1994.

                  (c)       Incorporated  by reference to exhibits of equivalent
                            number to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on
                            Form S-4, as amended, Registration No. 33-95542.
<PAGE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXECUTONE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>



                          ISO BASE PURCHASE AGREEMENT

PURCHASE  AGREEMENT  dated as of December  31,  1995,  by and between  EXECUTONE
INFORMATION  SYSTEMS,   INC.,  a  Virginia  corporation  ("Seller")  and  Kansas
Communications,  Inc. ("ISO"). 

WHEREAS, Seller desires to transfer its rights in and certain liabilities of the
Base  Assets (as that term is defined  below) to ISO and ISO  desires to acquire
Seller's rights and is willing to assume certain  liabilities of the Base Assets
for  and  in  consideration  of  the  payments  specified  hereinafter,  all  in
accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement;

NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the mutual  promises herein made and the
mutual  benefits to be derived from the  transactions  provided for herein,  the
parties hereto represent,  warrant,  covenant,  agree and understand as follows:


                                   ARTICLE I

                                  Definitions
The  following  terms  shall,  for the  purposes  of this  Agreement,  have  the
following meanings:

     "Assumed Liabilities" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.

     "Backlog Orders" shall mean orders for the sale and/or  installation of new
     systems  and/or MAC work which  includes Base  equipment,  which orders are
     accepted by Seller on or prior to the Transfer Date in the ordinary  course
     of business on terms no less favorable  than Seller's  standard terms as of
     the date hereof and which are not completed by the Transfer Date.

     "Base"  shall  mean  telephone  systems  or voice  processing  systems  and
     healthcare communication systems sold or manufactured by Seller and related
     peripheral  equipment  attached to or interfacing with such equipment,  and
     installed at the customer  sites on the  Customer  List. 

     "Base Assets" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1.

     "Base Business" shall mean the business conducted by Seller on and from the
     Premises (as hereafter  defined),  including the business of  distributing,
     selling,  reselling,  installing and maintaining Base equipment and related
     peripheral equipment to customers listed on the Customer List.

     "Benefit Plan" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2.

     "Closing  Date Book  Value"  shall mean the book  value of the Base  Assets
     minus  the  book  value of the  Assumed  Liabilities  determined  as of the
     Closing Date in accordance with generally accepted  accounting  principles,
     consistently applied with the balance sheet attached as Schedule 4.7.

     "COBRA" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.3.

     "Contracts"  shall mean all  contracts or agreements of Seller that are (i)
     listed on Schedule 1.1, and (ii) not listed on Schedule 1.1 but that relate
     to the Base  Business  and that are  assumed by ISO  pursuant  to a written
     election from ISO to Seller on or after the Transfer Date.



<PAGE>




     "Customer  List"  shall mean the list of  customer  sites on  Schedule  4.5
     hereto. The Customer List shall contain, as to each customer,  at least the
     following  information:  the  customer's  name and the  address,  telephone
     number of Its  installation  location where Base equipment is located,  and
     the name of the contact person  employed by the customer who deals with the
     Base equipment.

     "Dispute Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(b).

     "employee  pension  benefit  plans"  shall  have the  meaning set  forth in
     Section 7.2.

     "employee  welfare  benefit  plans"  shall  have the  meaning  set forth in
     Section  7.2.  "Financial  Statements"  shall have the meaning set forth in
     Section 4.7.

     "Fixed Assets" shall mean the assets listed on Schedule 4.6.

     "indemnified party" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.3.

     "indemnifying party" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.3.

     "Independent Auditor" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(b).

     "Inventory"  shall mean all inventory of Seller located at or in transit to
     the Premises, including parts, materials, supplies and finished goods.

     "ISO Employees" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.

     "Licenses and Permits" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.13.

     "MAC" shall mean  moves,  adds and  changes  work with  respect to the Base
     equipment in the ordinary course of business.

     "Maintenance  Contracts in Force" shall mean all Contracts  entered Into In
     the ordinary course of business for the maintenance of the Base expiring on
     or after the Transfer Date.

     "Nontransferred  Base  Assets"  shall have the meaning set forth in Section
     2.8(a).

     "Office Lease" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.

     "Preliminary  Purchase  Price"  shall have the meaning set forth in Section
     2.3.(b)

     "Premises"  means the  premises  leased by Seller  pursuant  to the  Office
     Lease.

     "Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(a).
    
     "Regulatory Authority" shall mean any court,  arbitrator or federal, state,
     municipal  or  other  local  or  foreign   government  or  any  department,
     commission,  board,  agency or taxing  authority,  whether  governmental or
     quasi-governmental.

     "Schedules" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.



<PAGE>



     "Settlement  Statement" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(b).


     "T & M" shall  mean  time  and  material  work  (billable  service)  in the
     ordinary course of business related to the Base equipment.

     "Territory" shall mean the counties of Wisconsin listed In Schedule 3.4.

     "Transfer" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1 hereof.

     "Transfer  Date" shall mean December 31, 1995, or such other date agreed by
     the parties.


                                   ARTICLE II


             Transfer of the Base Assets to ISO in Exchange for Cash
           and the Assumption by ISO of Certain Liabilities of Seller


2.1 Transfer of Assets.


          (a) On the Transfer Date, Seller shall sell, transfer, assign,  grant,
     convey  and  deliver,  as the case may be,  to ISO,  free and  clear of all
     mortgages,  security interests, liens, pledges and other encumbrances,  all
     Seller's  right,  title and interest in and to all assets,  properties  and
     rights  relating  primarily to the operation of the Base Business (the Base
     Assets.) including the following:

               (i) All bids and proposals to customers  made with respect to the
          Base Business as of the Transfer Date;

               (ii) All  orders  placed by  customers  with  respect to the Base
          Business  which have not yet been approved or rejected by Seller as of
          the Transfer Date;

               (iii) All rights  under the  Contracts  in effect on the Transfer
          Date,  whether or not  partially  performed;  and In each case of (i),
          (ii) and (iii),  whether for purchase of Base  equipment,  or for MAC,
          for  installation  or for  maintenance of same, and whether on a fixed
          fee or T & M basis, or otherwise;

               (iv) All customer records and files,  the Customer List,  product
          literature and  information,  reference  manuals,  and other books and
          records ordinarily located at the Premises;

               (v) All Backlog Orders;

               (vi) All property,  plant and equipment  located on the Premises,
          including the Fixed Assets;

               (vii) All Inventory;

               (viii) All accounts receivable relating to the Base Business;


               (ix) All prepaid commissions relating to the Base Business;



<PAGE>



               (x) All prepaid advertising relating to the Base Business;

               (xi) All prepaid rent and security  deposits relating to the Base
          Business;

               (xii) All other prepaid  expenses  relating to the Base Business;
          and


               (xiii) All other assets,  properties and rights  reflected on the
          balance  sheet  attached as Schedule  4.7  (subject  to  additions  or
          deletions in the ordinary  course of business  since the date thereof)
          or ordinarily located at the Premises.


2.2 Excluded Assets.  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, ISO shall
not  purchase  or acquire  hereunder  any right,  title or interest in or to the
properties, rights and assets of Seller other than the Base Assets.

2.3  Consideration.  Upon the terms and subject to the  conditions  set forth in
this  Agreement and in exchange and in  consideration  for the Base Assets to be
purchased  and  acquired  by ISO,  ISO  agrees  to pay to Seller  the  following
Purchase Price.

          (a) The Purchase Price shall be an amount equal to  S1,924.000,  minus
     the amount by which the Closing Date Book Value is less than  $433,800,  or
     plus the amount by which the Closing Date Book Value exceeds $530,200,  if
     any.

          (b) Payment of Purchase Price. On the Transfer Date, ISO shall pay and
     remit to Seller  $100,000 by wire  transfer or check and the balance of the
     Preliminary  Purchase Price by delivery of a note in form of Exhibit A (the
     "Note"). The Preliminary Purchase Price shall be $1,924,000.  Within thirty
     (30) days after the Closing  Date,  ISO shall cause the employees of ISO to
     deliver to ISO and Seller a statement (the "Settlement  Statement") setting
     forth  in  detail a  determination  of the  Purchase  Price  including  its
     determination of Closing Date Book Value. In connection therewith, from and
     after   Closing,   each  party  shall  provide  the  other  party  and  its
     representatives  with full  access to all  assets,  records and work papers
     necessary  to compute  and  verify  the  Purchase  Price.  This  Settlement
     Statement  as  delivered  to ISO and Seller  shall be final for purposes of
     determining  the  Purchase  Price  unless,  within  sixty  (60) days  after
     delivery to ISO and Seller, either ISO or Seller shall deliver to the other
     party a Dispute Notice. After delivery of a Dispute Notice,  Seller and ISO
     shall  promptly  thereafter  negotiate  in good faith  with  respect to the
     subject of the Dispute Notice, and if they are unable to reach an agreement
     within  fifteen (15) business days after receipt of a Dispute  Notice,  the
     dispute  shall be submitted to the  Independent  Auditor.  The  Independent
     Auditor  shall be  directed to issue a final and  binding  decision  within
     thirty (30) days of submission of the Dispute  Notice,  as to the issues of
     disagreement  referred  to in the  Dispute  Notice and not  resolved by the
     parties.  Within five (5) days after final  determination of the Settlement
     Statement, (i) If necessary the Note shall be amended to reflect the amount
     of the  Purchase  Price.  The  Settlement  Statement  shall be  prepared in
     accordance with generally  accepted  accounting  principles as historically
     applied by Seller on a basis  consistent with the balance sheet attached as
     Schedule  4.7. In  connection  with the  Settlement  Statement,  a "Dispute
     Notice" shall mean a written notice from ISO or Seller, as the case may be,
     indicating  disagreement  with  the  initial  statement.  The  "Independent
     Auditor"  shall mean one of the "Big Six" public  accounting  firms with no
     material  relationship  to either of the parties chosen by agreement of the
     parties,  or if they are  unable to agree,  shall mean one of the "Big Six"
     firms  with no such  material  relationship  chosen  by lot.  The  fees and
     expenses  of the  Independent  Auditor  retained as a result of any dispute
     related to any statement  shall be equitably  allocated by the  Independent
     Auditor.  The  decision  of the  Independent  Auditor  with  respect to the
     Settlement Statement shall be final and binding on the parties.



<PAGE>


     2.4  Liabilities  Assumed by ISO. ISO shall assume only the following  (the
"Assumed  Liabilities"):  (i) performance of the express terms of Contracts that
are part of the Base Assets,  which performance is, by contract,  to occur on or
after  the  Transfer  Date  and  which  performance  does  not  result  from any
misperformance  or failure to perform by Seller;  (ii) accounts payable that are
not  intercompany  accounts payable to the extent reflected on the balance sheet
attached as Schedule 4.7; and (iii)  performance of Seller's  obligations  under
its lease of 250 North Sunnyslope Road,  Suite 125,  Brookfield,  Wisconsin (the
"Office  Lease"),  which  performance  is according to such lease to occur on or
after  the  Transfer  Date  and  which  performance  does  not  result  from any
misperformance or failure to perform by Seller.

     2.5 Excluded Liabilities.  Any obligations or liabilities (whether accrued,
absolute,  contingent or otherwise) of Seller that are not expressly  assumed by
ISO as Assumed  Liabilities  shall continue to be obligations and liabilities of
Seller.

     2.6 Allocation of Purchase Price.  The Purchase Price shall be allocated as
set forth on Schedule 2.6 for federal, state and local income tax purposes among
the business,  properties,  rights, assets and liabilities of Seller acquired by
ISO. The parties  shall  report the agreed  allocation  to the Internal  Revenue
Service  pursuant  to Section  1060 of the  Internal  Revenue  Code of 1986,  as
amended, and in accordance with regulations or notices thereunder, as required.

     2.7 Right to Contest.  The assumption and agreement by ISO to pay, perform,
and discharge,  as the case may be, the Assumed Liabilities specified in Section
2.4 hereof  shall not  prohibit  ISO from  contesting,  in good faith and at the
expense of ISO in ISO's name,  the amount,  validity  or  enforceability  of any
thereof;  provided,  however, that ISO shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend
Seller  against any  damage,  liability,  suit,  loss,  cost or fees  (including
attorneys'  fees) incurred by Seller  resulting from such contest if such debts,
liabilities or obligations do not arise as a result of a breach by Seller of its
obligations  in connection  with such Assumed  Liabilities  arising prior to the
Transfer Date.

     2.8 Non-Assignable Contracts and Rights.

          (a) Anything  herein to the contrary  notwithstanding,  at the written
     election of ISO, no Contracts shall be sold, transferred or assigned to ISO
     pursuant to this  Agreement if the sale, transfer or assignment of the same
     to ISO  requires the consent or approval of another  party or  governmental
     entity  and  such  consent  or  approval  has not been  obtained  as of the
     Transfer  Date.  Seller shall,  subject to the terms and conditions of this
     Agreement, hold any and all such Contracts in trust for the benefit of ISO,
     its successors and assigns,  and Seller shall at ISO's request  continue to
     use all  reasonable  efforts to obtain and secure any and all such consents
     or approvals (but without making any payments or incurring any penalties in
     connection therewith) or to subcontract rights under executory contracts to
     ISO. Contracts meeting all of the above requirements are herein referred to
     as the  "Nontransferred  Base  Assets".  In accordance  with the foregoing,
     Seller shall permit ISO to utilize any trucks covered by leases included in
     the  Nontransferred  Base Assets for a period of thirty days after  Closing
     and ISO shall be  responsible  for all  liabilities it incurs in using such
     trucks.

          (b) To the extent that ISO  obtains  the  benefit of a  Nontransferred
     Base  Asset  pursuant  to  Section  2.8(a),   then  ISO  shall  assume  the
     obligations and liabilities of such  Nontransferred  Base Asset to the same
     extent that ISO has assumed Contracts under Section 2.1 (a).


     2.9 Bulk Sales Act Waiver.  ISO hereby waives compliance by Seller with the
bulk sales  provisions  of the  Uniform  Commercial  Code or  similar  statutory
scheme,  if  applicable,  provided  that Seller shall  indemnify ISO against any
loss, damage or expense to ISO resulting from Seller's failure to comply.


<PAGE>




                                  ARTICLE III


                                 Transfer Date


     3.1  Transfer.  Consummation  of  the  purchase  and  sale  and  the  other
transactions provided for in this Agreement (the "Transfer") shall take place at
the  offices  of  McDermott,  Will & Emery,  227 West  Monroe  Street,  Chicago,
Illinois  60606,  commencing  at 9:00 AM, local time on December 31, 1996, or on
such  other  date or at such  other  time or place  as the  parties  hereto  may
mutually agree upon in writing and that shall be simultaneous  with or following
the  transfer  of the Base  Assets  to Seller  (the  "Transfer  Date"),  and all
transactions  provided for herein to occur on and as of the Transfer  Date shall
be deemed to have occurred simultaneously and to be effective,  and the Transfer
shall be deemed to have occurred,  as of the Transfer Date.  ISO's obligation to
effect the  Transfer  shall be subject to the  following  conditions:  (i) there
shall  have  been no  material  adverse  change  in the Base  Assets or the Base
Business  after the date hereof,  (ii) Seller's  representations  and warranties
shall remain true and correct as if made on the Transfer  Date, and (iii) Seller
shall have performed its  obligations  hereunder  required to be performed on or
prior to the Transfer Date.

     3.2 Deliveries by Seller on the Transfer Date. On the Transfer Date, Seller
shall deliver to ISO:


          (a) Instruments of Transfer.  A general Bill of Sale and assignment of
     Contracts, and such other specific assignments, bills of sale, endorsements
     and other good and  sufficient  instruments  of  conveyance  and  transfer,
     conveyance and assignment, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to
     ISO and its counsel,  as shall be effective to vest in ISO, title to all of
     the Base Assets.

          (b) Consents.  All third party consents necessary to transfer the Base
     Assets and  assign  the  Contracts  to ISO,  as well as the  consent of the
     landlord to the assignment of the Office Lease.

          (c) Other Documents. All other documents and agreements required to be
     delivered at or before the  Transfer  Date by Seller to ISO under the terms
     of  this  Agreement,  or as  ISO  shall  reasonably  request  in  order  to
     consummate this transaction.


     3 3 Deliveries by ISO on the Transfer Date. On the Transfer Date, ISO shall
deliver to Seller:


          (a) Purchase Price. The Preliminary  Purchase Price in accordance with
     Section 2.3(b) hereof.

          (b) Instruments of Assumption.  An assumption agreement and such other
     instruments of assumption, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to
     Seller and its  counsel,  for ISO to assume and agree to pay,  perform  and
     discharge,  as the case may be, those liabilities and obligations of Seller
     to be assumed by ISO as provided in Section 2.4.

          (c) Other Documents. All other documents and agreements required to be
     delivered at or before the  Transfer  Date by ISO to Seller under the terms
     of  this  Agreement,  as  Seller  shall  reasonably  request  in  order  to
     consummate this transaction. 


     3.4  Distributorship  Agreement.  On  the  Transfer  Date  or  as  soon  as
practicable thereafter,  the parties will enter into a Distributorship Agreement
in form agreed by the parties  granting ISO exclusive  rights to the  healthcare
market in the  Territory set forth in Schedule 3.4 and  non-exclusive  rights to
the telephone


<PAGE>



market  in the  Territory,  as well as the right to  market  products  under the
"Executone" name as provided therein (with a $1 million aggregate quota).



                                   ARTICLE IV


                    Representations and Warranties of Seller


     Seller   hereby   represents   and  warrants  to  ISO  as  follows,   which
representations and warranties shall be deemed reaffirmed and republished on the
Transfer Date as if made again on and as of such date:

     4.1 Schedules.  Seller has delivered to ISO the schedules  attached  hereto
(the  "Schedules")  setting  forth  certain  disclosures,  exceptions  and other
information,  data and documents  referred to at various places  throughout this
Agreement. 

     4.2 Corporate.


          (a) Due Organization and  Qualification.  Seller is a corporation duly
     organized,  validly  existing  and in good  standing  under the laws of the
     Commonwealth of Virginia and in good standing in Wisconsin.

          (b)  Power and  Authority  to Enter  into  Agreement.  Seller  has the
     complete and unrestricted power and authority to (i) own, lease and operate
     the Base  Assets,  (ii) carry on the Base  Business,  (iii) enter into this
     Agreement and (iv)  consummate  the  transactions  contemplated  hereby and
     thereby.

          (c) Due  Execution and  Enforceability.  The  execution,  delivery and
     performance  of this  Agreement and the other  agreements  and  instruments
     between and among the parties  referred to herein and the  consummation  of
     the  transactions   contemplated   under  this  Agreement  and  such  other
     agreements and instruments have been duly and validly authorized.  No other
     actions or proceedings on the part of Seller are necessary to authorize the
     execution,  delivery  and  performance  of this  Agreement  and  the  other
     Instruments and agreements between the parties provided for herein. None of
     such actions have been  modified or rescinded  and all are in full force or
     effect.  The execution,  delivery and  performance of this  Agreement,  the
     agreements  and  instruments  contemplated  under this  Agreement,  and the
     consummation of the transactions  contemplated  under this Agreement,  such
     other agreements and instruments (a) will not require the consent, approval
     or  authorization  of any  person  or  Regulatory  Authority;  (b) will not
     require  any notice or filing  under  United  States or any state  statute,
     regulations  or other  provision  of law or any order,  judgement  or other
     direction of any court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction;  and (c) will
     not  give  rise to any  lien,  security  interest,  claim,  encumbrance  or
     restriction  on  any  of  the  Base  Assets.  This  Agreement,  such  other
     agreements and instruments to be executed by Seller in connection with this
     Agreement, constitutes (or will constitute when executed by Seller) a valid
     and binding  obligation  enforceable  against Seller in accordance with its
     terms.  The execution,  delivery and  performance of this Agreement and the
     other agreements and instruments contemplated under this Agreement, and the
     consummation of the transactions contemplated under this Agreement and such
     other  agreements and  instruments on the part of Seller will not breach or
     violate any statute, law, ordinance, rule or regulation of any governmental
     authority,  domestic  or  foreign,  or  any  of the  terms,  conditions  or
     provisions  of the  articles of  incorporation  or by-laws of Seller or any
     judgment,   order,  injunction,   decree,  contract,   agreement  or  other
     instrument  to which  Seller  is a party or by which  Seller  or any of its
     properties, rights or assets is bound.

<PAGE>



     4.3 Base  Assets.  Seller  has title to each of the Base  Assets,  free and
clear of all liens,  security interests,  claims or encumbrances of any kind. On
the Transfer Date,  Seller shall have and ISO shall  receive,  free and clear of
all liens,  security  interests,  claims or  encumbrances  of any kind, good and
marketable  title to the Base Assets.  All of the Base Assets may be transferred
to ISO without  the  consent or  approval  of any  person.  The Base Assets will
furnish ISO with all of the capacity and rights to operate the Base  Business in
the same manner as presently operated by Seller.

     4.4  Contracts and  Commitments.  All of the Contracts are duly and validly
executed  by all  parties,  are in full  force and effect  and are  binding  and
enforceable in accordance with their terms. Accurate and complete copies of each
Contract  have been  delivered  to ISO.  The  consummation  of the  transactions
contemplated  hereby,  without  notice to or  consent or  approval  of any party
(except for such consents as are obtained at or prior to the Closing),  will not
constitute a default under or a breach of any  provision of any  Contract.  With
respect to each  Contract  which is to be assigned to ISO  pursuant to the terms
hereof,  ISO will succeed to all the rights and benefits of Seller. No event has
occurred  which,  with or  without  notice  or the  passage  of  time,  or both,
constitutes or would  constitute a default by Seller under any Contract,  and no
event has  occurred  which (with or without  notice or the  passage of time,  or
both)  constitutes  or would  constitute a default by any other party.  With the
exception of the Contracts assigned to ISO, there are no contracts or agreements
material to the  operation of the Base  Business.  None of the  Contracts (i) is
with Seller or any  affiliate  of Seller,  (ii)  includes  any  covenant  not to
compete  or  will  otherwise   restrict  ISO's  activities,   (iii)  contains  a
requirement  to  indemnity  any  party  for  any  tax,  environmental  or  other
liability, (iv) will require ISO to provide goods, services or benefits on terms
substantially  less favorable than fair market terms,  or (v) will permit ISO to
obtain goods,  services or benefits on terms  substantially  more favorable than
fair market terms.

     4.5  Customer  Lists.  Set forth on  Schedule  4.5 hereto an  accurate  and
complete copy of the Customer List.


     4.6 Fixed  Assets.  Set forth on Schedule  4.6 is an accurate  and complete
list of the property,  plant and equipment  ordinarily  located at the Premises.
The property, plant and equipment are in good operating condition, ordinary wear
and tear excepted.


     4.7 Financial  Statements and Taxes. The balance sheet and income statement
of the Base Business as of and for the year ended  December 31, 1994 and the ten
months ended  October 31, 1995 attached  hereto as Schedule 4.7 (the  "Financial
Statements")  are (i) in  accordance  with the books of account  and  records of
Seller,  (ii) fair  presentations of the financial  condition and the results of
operations as of the dates and for the periods  indicated and (iii)  prepared in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent
basis  throughout the periods covered  thereby (except as specified  therein and
except  for  the  lack  of  footnotes,  and in the  case  of  interim  Financial
Statements  subject to year-end audit  adjustments  consisting  only of normally
recurring  accruals which in the aggregate are not material).  The Base Business
is not  subject to any  liability  or  obligation  (whether  absolute,  accrued,
contingent  or  otherwise)  which is not shown or provided for on the  Financial
Statements  or on Schedule  4.7 except  which has been  incurred in the ordinary
course of business since the date of such financial  statements or which are not
Assumed Liabilities.  All federal, foreign, state, county and other tax returns,
reports and declarations of every nature (including income, employment,  excise,
property,  sales and use taxes)  required  to be filed by or on behalf of Seller
(as related to the Base Business) and the Base Business have been filed and such
returns are  complete  and  accurate in all  material  respects and disclose all
taxes required to be paid for the periods  covered  thereby.  All taxes shown on
such returns as being owed by the Seller (as related to the Base  Business)  and
the Base Business and any  deficiency  assessments,  penalties and interest have
been paid or set aside for  payment.  All tax  payments  related  to  employees,
including income tax withholding,


<PAGE>



FICA,  FUTA,  unemployment  and  worker's  compensation,  required to be made by
Seller (relating to the Base Business) and the Base Business have been fully and
properly paid, withheld,  accrued or recorded. 

     4.8 Interim  Change.  Since October 31, 1995,  Seller has operated the Base
Business in the ordinary course, consistent with past operations.

     4.9 Environmental Matters. Seller has previously and is currently complying
in all respects with its obligations  under all laws relating to the environment
in  connection  with the operation of the Base Business and its occupancy of the
Premises.  No hazardous chemicals,  materials,  substances,  wastes,  petroleum,
petroleum products,  radioactive materials,  or other pollutants or contaminants
regulated  under any  environmental  laws have  ever  been  generated,  treated,
stored, or disposed of at the Premises. No underground storage tanks are present
at the  Premises,  and, to  Seller's  knowledge,  no such tanks were  previously
abandoned or removed.

     4.10 Premises. Seller has all easements and rights, including easements for
all utilities,  services, roadways and other means of ingress and egress, to the
extent  necessary  to conduct the Base  Business  and  operate  the  Premises as
presently  operated  and  conducted.  The zoning of each parcel of the  Premises
permits the existing  improvements and the continuation of business as presently
conducted thereon.  There is no construction work being done at, or construction
materials being supplied to the Premises.

     4.11  Customers.  Seller has no knowledge  of any fact,  condition or event
which would cause ISO's  relationship  with any  customer to be  materially  and
adversely different than the current  relationship of such customer with respect
to the Base Business.

     4.12  Employees.  Schedule  4.12  is  an  accurate  and  complete  schedule
containing, with respect to the Base Business:

          (a) a list of all employees (including name, title and position);

          (b) the employee's length of service;

          (c) a list of all agreements, arrangements or understandings,  written
     or oral,  regarding  services  to be  rendered,  terms  and  conditions  of
     employment  and  confidentiality  (with  respect  to such  items  listed on
     Schedule  4.12,  accurate and complete  copies have been delivered to ISO);
     and

          (d) the compensation (including terms of payment, bonuses, commissions
     and deferred  compensation,  as well as any benefits) of each employee. 

All employees  of the  Base  Business   are  employees  at will.  No  collective
bargaining unit represents any employee of Seller.

     4.13  Licenses  and  Permits.  There is no  license,  permit,  certificate,
approval or similar item  necessary to conduct the Base Business as conducted by
Seller.

     4.14  Compliance  with Law.  The Base  Business,  the Premises and the Base
Assets conform to all applicable statutes,  codes, laws,  ordinances,  rules and
regulations  and Seller has complied and is complying with all statutes,  codes,
laws,  ordinances,  rules and  regulations in connection with the conduct of the
Base Business,  including  those relating to employment  matters,  environmental
matters and work place safety and health.  Neither Seller, nor, to the knowledge
of Seller, any employee or representative
thereof



<PAGE>




has made any unlawful  gratuities or other  payments (or taken similar  actions)
for the purpose of  benefiting  Seller with respect to the Base  Business.  

     4.15  Inventory.  All Inventory  included in the Base Assets (i) is of good
and merchantable  quality,  salable and usable for the purposes  intended in the
ordinary  course of  business,  (ii) is not  excess or  obsolete  (except to the
extent  reflected in the reserve on the balance sheet attached as Schedule 4.7),
and (iii) is in conformity with applicable warranties express and implied.

     4.16  Products.  ISO will not incur any  liability  or  obligation  for any
product sold by Seller prior to Closing except to the extent of liabilities  and
obligations  reflected in the deferred  warranty,  accrued  warranty and accrued
factory  repair  reserves on the balance  sheet  attached as Schedule  4.7 which
arise pursuant to the terms of the warranties and Maintenance Contracts in Force
included in the Contracts.

     4.17 Disclosure. All information furnished by or on behalf of Seller to ISO
in connection with the  transactions  contemplated by this Agreement is accurate
in all  material  respects  and  Seller  is not  aware of any  fact of  material
significance  to Seller  or the  assets,  properties,  business,  operations  or
financial condition of the Base Business that is not disclosed in this Agreement
or the Schedules or Exhibits hereto.

     4.18 Pending Claims. Litigation and Governmental  Proceedings.  There is no
claim, complaint,  suit, action, arbitration or regulatory,  administrative,  or
governmental proceeding or any other proceeding pending against Seller (i) which
might individually or in the aggregate adversely affect the Base Business or the
Base Assets,  or any of the  properties,  rights or assets  included in the Base
Assets,  or  (ii)  which  could  result  in the  restraint,  prohibition  or the
obtaining  of  substantial  damages  or other  relief  in  connection  with this
Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.

     4.19  Broker's  or  Finder's  Fees.  No person  other  than  Seller and its
affiliated companies (and their respective  directors,  officers,  employees and
outside  accountants and attorneys) has arranged,  or participated in arranging,
on behalf of Seller the transactions  provided for herein. There are no broker's
or  finder's  fees to be paid by Seller,  and Seller  has no  knowledge  (or the
reasonable  basis therefor) of any claim by any person  claiming  through Seller
for a  broker's  or  finder's  fee to be  paid  by ISO in  connection  with  the
consummation of the transactions provided for herein.



                                   ARTICLE V


                      Representations and Warranties of ISO

     ISO represents and warrants to Seller as follows, which representations and
warranties shall be deemed reaffirmed and republished on the Transfer Date as if
made again on and as of such date:

     5.1 Corporate.

          (a) Due  Organization.  ISO is a corporation  duly organized,  validly
     existing and in good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation.

          (b) Power and Authority to Enter into Agreement.  ISO has the complete
     and unrestricted corporate power and authority to enter into this Agreement
     and the Note and to consummate  the  transactions  contemplated  hereby and
     thereby.


<PAGE>




          (c) Due  Execution  and  Enforceability. The execution,  delivery  and
     performance of this Agreement and the Note, and the other  instruments  and
     agreements  between the panics  referred to herein and the  consummation of
     the transactions  contemplated  under this Agreement and the Note, and such
     other agreements and instruments have been duly and validly  authorized and
     approved.  No other corporate actions or proceedings on the pare of ISO are
     necessary to authorize  the  execution,  delivery and  performance  of this
     Agreement  and the  Note,  and the  other  agreements  between  the  panics
     provided for herein or the  consummation of the  transactions  contemplated
     under  this   Agreement  and  the  Note  and  such  other   agreements  and
     instruments.  None of such corporate actions has been modified or rescinded
     and all are in full force and effect.  Upon execution and delivery  hereof,
     this  Agreement  and the Note and the other  agreements  between the panics
     hereto  referred to herein shall  constitute the valid and legally  binding
     obligations of ISO.

     5.2  No  Breach  of  Statute  or  Contract.  The  execution,  delivery  and
performance  of  this  Agreement  and the  Note  and the  other  agreements  and
instruments contemplated under this Agreement and the Note, and the consummation
of the  transactions  contemplated  under this  Agreement  and the Note and such
other  agreements arid  instruments on the pan of ISO will not breach or violate
any statute, law, ordinance,  rule or regulation of any governmental  authority,
domestic  or  foreign,  or any of the terms,  conditions  or  provisions  of the
articles of incorporation or by-laws of ISO or any judgment,  order, Injunction,
decree,  contract,  agreement or other  instrument to which ISO is a party or by
which ISO or any of its properties' rights or assets is bound.

     5.3 Broker's or Finder's Fees. No person other than ISO (and its directors,
officers,  employees and outside  accountants  and attorneys)  has arranged,  or
participated  in  arranging,  on behalf of ISO,  the  transactions  provided for
herein.  There are no broker's  or finder's  fees to be paid by ISO and ISO does
not have any knowledge (or the  reasonable  basis  therefor) of any claim by any
person claiming  through ISO for a broker's or finder's fee to be paid by Seller
in connection with consummation of the transactions provided for herein.



                                   ARTICLE VI


                                   Covenants


     6.1  Cooperation:  Further  Assurances.  ISO and Seller  agree to cooperate
fully   with  the  other   and  their   counsel   and   accountants   and  other
representatives,  will  use  reasonable  efforts  to cause  consummation  of the
transactions  contemplated herein as promptly as possible, and will refrain from
a course of action inconsistent with this Agreement. From and after the Transfer
Date, Seller and ISO shall,  from time to time,  execute and deliver or cause to
be executed and delivered such further  instruments of transfer,  assignment and
conveyance or  assumption,  and perform such other acts, as they may  reasonably
require  to more  effectively  carry  out the  sale,  transfer,  assignment  and
conveyance  to ISO of the Base Assets and the Base  Business  and to confirm and
assure ISO the title thereto.

     6.2  Non-Disclosure  by Seller.  Seller covenants and agrees from and after
the date hereof to hold in confidence,  and not to use for any purpose unrelated
to this  Agreement  without the prior written  consent of ISO, all  proprietary,
confidential  or secret  information or data of or in respect of the Base Assets
and the Base Business, and to use all reasonable efforts to cause its directors,
officers,  employees and  representatives to hold same in confidence,  including
disclosure  only to  those  employees  of  Seller  having  a need  to know  such
information,  until either (i) this Agreement and the transactions  provided for
herein shall be terminated or abandoned  for whatever  reason,  or (ii) the same
has been  theretofore  publicly  disclosed by ISO or has otherwise  ceased to be
secret or confidential through no breach by Seller of this Section.



<PAGE>



Except as provided herein, nothing shall prevent Seller from using or disclosing
information  that  it (i)  independently  developed;  (ii)  received  rightfully
without  obligation  of  confidentiality  from third  parties; or (iii)  already
possesses without obligation of confidentiality.  

     6.3  Litigation  Cooperation.  In the  event  that any party  hereto  shall
participate  in any suit,  action,  proceeding or  investigation  concerning the
business or affairs of the Base  Business  conducted on or prior to the Transfer
Date,  the other parry hereto  shall,  upon the request of such party, cooperate
fully with such party in connection  therewith,  which cooperation shall include
without limitation making reasonably available the employees engaged in the Base
Business  or the  relevant  employees  of Seller,  in return for  payment of the
internal cost to the provider.


     6.4  Exclusivity.  From the date hereof  through  January 31, 1996,  Seller
shall not (and shall cause its  officers,  representatives,  agents and advisors
not to) solicit,  encourage or negotiate  any proposal  from or with,  or supply
information to, persons other than ISO or its  representatives  with respect to,
or in connection with, the sale, lease or other transfer of the Base Business or
the Base Assets or any  material  portion  thereof,  and Seller  shall  promptly
advise ISO of any acquisition proposal or inquiry that Seller receives.

     6.5 Operation of the Base Business. From the date hereof until the Transfer
Date,  Seller shall  operate the Base Business in the ordinary  course.  Without
limiting the foregoing,  Seller shall not (i) sell any of the Base Assets except
sales of inventory on terms and in amounts  consistent with past practice,  (ii)
increase  the  compensation  of any  employee,  (iii) enter into any contract or
arrangement or make any offer except on terms consistent with past practice,  or
(iv) make any intercompany transfers of any cash generated by the Base Business.



                                  ARTICLE VII


                                   Employees


     7.1 Continued  Association with the Business.  ISO shall have the right but
not the  obligation  to offer  employment  to all current  employees of the Base
Business. Seller will use all reasonable efforts to retain all present employees
through the Transfer Date.  Except for Nick Esaylan,  Seller has not offered and
will not offer  employment  to any  employees of the Base Business in respect of
any period after the Transfer  Date  without the prior  written  consent of ISO.
Seller shall  promptly pay all accrued wages and other  compensation  payable to
the employees of the Base Business as of the Transfer  Date. ISO shall not incur
any  liability or  obligation  with respect to any employee that does not accept
employment  with ISO. ISO will not incur as a result of the transfer of the Base
Assets,  any present,  future or  contingent  liability or obligation to pay any
pension benefits, medical benefits, compensation for loss of employment or other
compensation or benefits to any employee  terminated at or prior to the Transfer
Date.  The employees of the Base Business hired by ISO are referred to herein as
the "ISO Employees"


     7.2 Benefit Plans. ISO shall have no liability under any "employee  welfare
benefit plans" (as defined In Section 3(1) of ERISA),  Employee  pension benefit
plans. (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA),  bonus,  profit sharing,  deferred
compensation,  incentive or other compensation plans or arrangements,  and other
employee  fringe  benefit  plans  whether  funded  or  unfunded,   qualified  or
unqualified (all the foregoing being herein called Benefit Plans.) maintained or
contributed  to  for  the  benefit  of any of the  employees  or  other  persons
performing services at or for the Premises or for the Base Business.


<PAGE>



     7.3 COBRA  Obligations.  Seller shall retain all  liabilities,  perform all
obligations  and maintain all insurance  under the  Consolidated  Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation  Act of 1985 ("COBRA") with respect to  its employees  and former
employees of the Base Business and their covered dependents, whether or not such
employees accept employment with ISO.

     7.4 Workers Compensation. Seller shall be liable for the administration and
payment of all workers'  compensation  liabilities  and benefits with respect to
(i) ISO  Employees  resulting  from claims,  events,  circumstances,  exposures,
conditions  or  occurrences  occurring  prior  to the  Transfer  Date,  and (ii)
employees and former  employees of Seller that do not become ISO Employees.  ISO
shall  be  responsible  for  the  administration  and  payment  of all  workers'
compensation  liabilities  and benefits with respect to ISO employees  resulting
from claims  reported  following the Transfer  Date,  and resulting from events,
circumstances, exposures, conditions, or occurrences after the Transfer Date.



                                  ARTICLE VIII


                          Termination and Abandonment


     8.1 Termination. This Agreement may be terminated and the purchase and sale
and the other transactions provided for by this Agreement may be abandoned prior
to the Transfer Date,  without  liability on the part of any party to the other,
except to the extent of any breach of any provision hereof prior to termination:

          (a) By mutual written consent of the parties;

          (b) By either  party,  if the purchase  and sale  provided for by this
     Agreement  has not been  consummated  For any reason other than a breach of
     any representation,  warranty, covenant or agreement contained herein or in
     any  Schedule  or  Exhibit  hereto or  thereto  by the party  seeking to so
     terminate) on or before January 31, 1996; or

          (c) By ISO; if Seller shall, or by Seller, if ISO shall: (i) apply for
     or  consent  to the  appointment  of a  receiver,  trustee,  liquidator  or
     custodian or the like with respect to itself or any of its  property,  (ii)
     admit in writing its  inability  to pay its debts  generally as they become
     due, (iii) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors,  (iv) be
     adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent,  or (v)  commence,  or have  commenced
     against It, a case under the Federal  bankruptcy  laws of the United States
     of America (or similar law in any other jurisdiction) or file or have filed
     against it a petition or answer seeking reorganization, an arrangement with
     creditors  or an order  for  relief or  seeking  to take  advantage  of any
     insolvency  law or file an answer  admitting the material  allegations of a
     petition filed against it in any bankruptcy,  reorganization  or insolvency
     proceeding.

     8.2  Notice  of  Termination.  Prompt  written  notice  shall  be  given of
termination and abandonment  pursuant to Section 8.1 hereof, such termination or
abandonment to be effective upon such notice.



                                   ARTICLE IX


                       Indemnification and Reimbursement


9.1  Indemnification  by Seller.  In order to induce ISO to enter
Into this  Agreement and to consummate  the  transactions  contemplated  hereby,
Seller covenants and agrees to and shall defend,



<PAGE>



indemnify  and  hold  harmless  ISO  and  its  respective  officers,  directors,
employees and agents,  against and with respect to all liability,  loss, damage,
cost or expense  (including  without  limitation all settlements,  judgments and
reasonable  attorneys' fees and costs relating  thereto) suffered or incurred by
each of them, and any and all claims,  actions,  suits and proceedings resulting
from or  arising  out of:  

          (a) Misrepresentation or Breach of Warranty.  Any misrepresentation by
     Seller or any breach by Seller of any of its  representations or warranties
     set forth in this Agreement or any Schedule or Exhibit hereto or any claims
     of  third  parties  which  if  true  would   constitute  such  a  breach or
     misrepresentation;

          (b) Breach of Covenant or Agreement.  Any breach or  nonfulfillment by
     Seller of any of its covenants,  agreements or other  obligations set forth
     in this Agreement, or any Schedule or Exhibit hereto or thereto;

          (c) Bulk Sales  Liability.  The  failure by Seller to comply  with the
     bulk sales provisions of the Uniform  Commercial Code or similar  statutory
     scheme, if applicable;

          (d)  Unassumed  Liabilities.   Any  and  all  debts,  liabilities  and
     obligations of, or claims against,  Seller that are not expressly  included
     in the Assumed  Liabilities  assumed by ISO pursuant to Section 2.4 hereof;
     and

          (e)  Severance.  Any  claims  for  compensation  or  severance  pay or
     benefits by employees of Seller whose  employment  terminates  prior to two
     weeks following the Transfer Date, except to the extent specifically agreed
     by the parties otherwise;


provided,  however, that indemnification  pursuant to paragraphs 9.1 (a) and 9.1
(b) hereof shall be conditioned  upon notice of claims in respect  thereof being
submitted,  if at all, by ISO to Seller  within two (2) years after the Transfer
Date. 

     9.2  Indemnification  by ISO. In order to induce  Seller to enter Into this
Agreement and to consummate the transactions  contemplated hereby, ISO covenants
and  agrees to and shall  defend,  indemnity  and hold  harmless  Seller and its
respective officers,  directors,  employees and agents, against and with respect
to all liability,  loss,  damage,  cost or expense (including without limitation
all  settlements,  judgements and reasonable  attorneys' fees and costs relating
thereto) suffered or incurred by each of them, and any and all claims,  actions,
suits and proceedings resulting from or arising out of:

          (a) Misrepresentation or Breach of Warranty.  Any misrepresentation by
     ISO or any breach by ISO of any of its  representations  or warranties  set
     forth in this Agreement or any Schedule or Exhibit hereto or thereto or any
     claims of third  parties  which if true would  constitute  such a breach or
     misrepresentation;

          (b) Breach of Covenant or Agreement.  Any breach or  nonfulfillment by
     ISO of any of its covenants,  agreements or other  obligations set forth in
     this Agreement, or any Schedule or Exhibit hereto or thereto;

          (c)  Assumed   Liabilities.   Any  and  all  debts,   liabilities  and
     obligations   of  Seller  that  are  expressly   included  in  the  Assumed
     Liabilities assumed by ISO pursuant to Section 2.4 hereof;

          (d)  Operations  After  Transfer  Date.  Liabilities of Seller arising
     solely  from ISO's  failure to perform the  Assumed  Liabilities  after the
     Transfer Date; and


<PAGE>


          (e)  Severance.  Any  claims  for  compensation  or  severance  pay or
     benefits payable under ISO's  compensation,  severance or benefits policies
     to former employees of Seller who become employed by ISO as of or after the
     Transfer Date and continue such  employment  beyond two weeks following the
     Transfer Date;

provided, however, that indemnification pursuant to paragraphs 9.2(a) and 9.2(b)
hereof  shall be  conditioned  upon  notice of claims in respect  thereof  being
submitted,  if at all, by Seller to ISO within two (2) years after the  Transfer
Date.

     9.3 Claims for Reimbursement. In the event that a party shall have suffered
any liability,  loss, damage, cost or expense with respect to any claim, action,
suit or proceeding to which it believes the foregoing  indemnity  relates,  that
party (the  "indemnified  party),  shall give the other  party,  prompt  written
notice of the nature and, if known, amount of such liability, loss, damage, cost
or expense and demand for  reimbursement  made therefor.  The party against whom
the claim for indemnification  shall be made (the indemnifying party7 shall have
thirty  (30) days from the date of said  notice to  investigate  and dispute the
nature,  validity  or amount of any such  claim.  During  said  thirty  (30) day
period,  the  indemnifying  party shall have  reasonable  access,  during normal
business  hours,  to the  books and  records  of the  indemnified  party for the
purpose of such  investigation.  In the event that the indemnifying  party shall
dispute  the  nature,  validity  or  amount  of said  claim,  it shall  give the
indemnified  party written notice of such dispute  pursuant to Article X hereof.
In the absence of a dispute,  the indemnifying party shall promptly,  and in any
event not later than the  expiration  of said thirty (30) day period,  reimburse
the indemnified  party in full for any such  liability,  loss,  damage,  cost or
expense as set forth in the indemnified  party's  notice.  In the event that the
indemnifying  party shall dispute only part of the claim, the indemnifying party
shall,  concurrently  with the delivery of their  notice of dispute,  pay to the
indemnified party the undisputed portion of the claim.

     9.4  Third-Party  Claims.  Upon  notice  of  any  claim,  action,  suit  or
proceeding  by a third party  giving rise to a claim for  indemnification  under
Section 9.1 or 9.2 hereof,  the  indemnifying  party shall  proceed,  at its own
expense, to resist and dispose of such claim, action, suit or proceeding in such
manner as they deem appropriate,  provided,  however, that any indemnified party
shall have the right to employ separate legal counsel in any such claim, action,
suit or proceeding  and  participate  in the defense  thereof,  but the fees and
expenses of such other counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnified  party
and  not  subject  to  indemnification  under  this  Agreement  unless  (i)  the
employment of such other counsel has been authorized by the indemnifying  party;
(ii) the  indemnifying  party has failed to defend such claim,  action,  suit or
proceeding  diligently;  or (iii) the  parties  to such  action  (including  any
impleaded party) include the indemnified  party and the indemnifying  party, and
the indemnified  party has been advised by legal counsel that there may be legal
defenses   available  to  it  which  are  different  from,  in  addition  to  or
inconsistent  with, the legal defenses  available to the indemnifying  party, or
that the indemnified  party's interest may be adverse in whole or in part to the
interest of the indemnifying  party.  The  indemnifying  party shall not, in the
defense of any such claim,  action,  suit or  proceeding,  except with the prior
written  consent of each  indemnified  party  affected,  consent to entry of any
judgment or enter into any settlement which does not include as an unconditional
term the release by the claimant or plaintiff of such indemnified party from all
further liability in respect to such claim, action, suit or proceeding.

     9.5  Limitation  on  Indemnity.  Notwithstanding  anything  herein  to  the
contrary, neither Seller nor ISO shall have any obligation to indemnify and hold
harmless the other hereunder in respect of any liability,  loss, damage, cost or
expense  resulting  from or  arising  out of a  misrepresentation  or  breach of
warranty  or  covenant  as provided in Section 9.1 (a) and (b) hereof or Section
9.2(a) and (b) hereof,  as the case may be, until the aggregate amount of claims
hereunder against Seller, or ISO, as the case may be, In respect thereof exceeds
Five  Thousand  Dollars  ($5,000)  and  at  that  point  the  liability  to  the
indemnified  party  shall  include  any  amount in excess  of the  initial  Five
Thousand Dollars ($5,000) aggregate claim amount;


<PAGE>


provided, however, that neither Seller nor ISO shall have any further obligation
to indemnify and hold  harmless the other after the  aggregate  amount of claims
paid to ISO or Seller in respect thereof equals an aggregate amount equal to the
total  Purchase  Price set forth in Section 2.3(a) herein plus the amount of the
Assumed Liabilities. 



                                    ARTICLE X


                            Miscellaneous Provisions


     10.1 Confidentiality. The parties hereto covenant and agree that, except as
provided  for  hereinbelow,  each will not from and after the date hereof  make,
issue  or  release  any  public  announcement,   press  release,   statement  or
acknowledgment  of the  existence  of,  or  disclose  (except  to  those  of its
employees and agents who have a need to know for the purposes of this Agreement)
the terms,  conditions and status of, the transactions  provided for herein,  or
any prior  proposals  related to the  subject  matter  hereof  without the prior
written consent of the other party,  except to the extent such party is required
by  law  to  make,  issue  or  release,   any  such   announcement,   statement,
acknowledgment or revelation.

     10.2 Costs and Expenses. Each party covenants and agrees that it shall bear
its  respective  costs and  expenses  in  connection  with the  negotiation  and
execution of this Agreement and  consummation  of the  transaction  provided for
herein.

     10.3 Amendment and Modification. This Agreement may be amended, modified or
supplemented only in a writing executed by each of the parties.

     10.4  Notices.  All  notices,  requests,  demands  or other  communications
hereunder must be in writing, and must be given, and shall be effective (i) when
delivered by hand or by courier,  (ii) when five (5) days have elapsed after its
transmittal by registered or certified  mail,  postage  prepaid,  return receipt
requested,  or (iii) when  transmitted by facsimile (with a copy  simultaneously
sent by registered or certified  mail,  return  receipt  requested).  Notices of
change of address  shall be  effective  only upon  receipt  notwithstanding  the
previous  sentence.  Notices shall be sent to the addresses and person set forth
below, or to such different  addresses and persons as to which a party has given
notice, in the manner provided in this Section:

If to Seller:  EXECUTONE INFORMATION SYSTEMS, INC.
               478 Wheelers Farms Road
               Milford, CT 06460
               Facsimile: (203) 882-0503

               Attn: Anthony R. Guarascio
               Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



<PAGE>



If to ISO:     Kansas  Communications, Inc. 
               8206 Marshall  Drive
               Lenexa,  KS 66214 
               Facsimile: (913)  888-6647  

               Attn:  Mr.  Herb  Sizemore


     10.5 Successors:  Assignment. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of,
and be  binding  upon,  the  respective  panics  hereto  and  thereto  and their
successors  and may be  assigned  thereby  in  whole  or in pan to any of  their
respective  affiliates,  but otherwise  this  Agreement is not assignable by any
party hereto or thereto,  either in whole or in pan,  without the prior  written
consent  of the other  party  hereto or  thereto.  Any  attempt  to assign  this
Agreement  in  whole or in  part,  including  the  attempted  assignment  of any
obligation of any party hereunder or thereunder,  to any assignee (other than an
affiliate  of the  assignor)  without the consent of each other party  hereto or
thereto shall be null and void.

     10.6 Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in two or
more counterparts,  each of which shall be deemed an original,  but all of which
together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.

     10.7  Headings.  Section  and  paragraph  headings  in this  Agreement  are
provided for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to constitute
a pan hereof or be  referred to in the  construction  or  interpretation  of its
terms.

     10.8 Schedules and Exhibits. One complete set of the Schedules and Exhibits
hereto has been  delivered to each of the panics  hereto prior to the  execution
and delivery of this Agreement.

     10.9  Waiver:  Remedies.  No waiver of any breach of any  provision of this
Agreement  shall be held to be a waiver of any  other  provision  or  subsequent
breach of the same provision,  and the failure of a party to enforce at any time
any provision  hereof shall not be deemed a waiver of any right of such party to
subsequently  enforce such provision or any other provision hereof. Ail remedies
afforded in this Agreement shall be taken and construed as cumulative;  that is,
in addition to every other remedy provided herein or by law.

     10.10  Governing Law. This Agreement  shall be construed,  interpreted  and
enforced  in  accordance  with the laws of the State of Illinois  applicable  to
contracts executed and to be wholly performed In such State.

     10.11  Severability.  In the event that any provision or any portion of any
provision of this  Agreement  shall be held  invalid,  illegal or  unenforceable
under  applicable  law, the remainder of this  Agreement  shall remain valid and
enforceable,   unless   such   invalidity,    illegality   or   unenforceability
substantially  diminishes the rights and  obligations,  taken as a whole, or any
party hereunder.

     10.12 Survival of  Representations,  Warranties.  Covenants and Agreements.
Subject to the limitations of Section 9.1 and 9.2 hereof,  all  representations,
warranties,  covenants and agreements of the panics hereto contained  herein, or
in any Schedule or Exhibit  hereto or thereto  shall  survive the  execution and
delivery hereof and thereof and  consummation of the  transactions  provided for
herein and therein


<PAGE>


notwithstanding any investigation, audit or review made at any time by any party
and notwithstanding the delivery of any documents.  

     10.13 Entire  Agreement.  This  Agreement  and the  Schedules  and Exhibits
hereto and thereto set forth the entire agreement and understanding  between the
panics hereto with respect to the  transactions  provided for herein and therein
and  supersede  and  cancel  any  and  all  prior  discussions,  correspondence,
agreements  or  understandings  between the panics  hereto with  respect to such
matters.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2.2
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>ASSET PURCHASE EXTREME COMMUNICATION
<TEXT>

                           ASSET PURCHASE AGREEMENT


         THIS ASSET PURCHASE  AGREEMENT  (this  "Agreement")  is dated as of the
17th day of  June,  1996,  by and  between  Extreme  Communications,  Inc.  (the
"Purchaser"), an Illinois corporation, Communicate Direct, Inc. (the "Company"),
an Illinois  corporation,  and SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.  ("SoftNet"),  a New York
corporation,  (the  Company  and  SoftNet  are  sometimes  referred  to  herein,
individually, as a "Seller" and, collectively, as the "Sellers").

                                R E C I T A L S:

         A.  Among   Sellers'   numerous  lines  of  business  is  the  sale  of
non-applications oriented (low-tech) key systems (the "Business").

         B. SoftNet owns all of the issued and  outstanding  voting stock of the
Company.

         C. The Sellers desire to sell,  and the Purchaser  desires to purchase,
certain  of the  assets  owned or used by the  Company  in  connection  with the
operation and conduct of the Business.

         NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of the premises, the mutual covenants
and agreements contained herein, and for other good and valuable  consideration,
the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged,  the Purchaser and
the Sellers agree as follows:


                                    ARTICLE I
                    Purchase and Sale of the Purchased Assets

         1.1 Purchased Assets . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in
this Agreement, the Company agrees to sell, transfer, assign, convey and deliver
to the Purchaser, and the Purchaser agrees to purchase,  accept and acquire from
the Company those assets (the "Purchased  Assets") necessary to market,  develop
and expand Company's  existing  Business,  including,  without  limitation,  the
Panasonic DBS,  Northern Telecom Meridian North Star and AVT voice mail products
(except as  attached  to Fujitsu  products),  including  the  specific  accounts
receivable set forth on Schedule 1.1,  Company's key systems  customer list, all
ongoing  revenue  and  business  from  existing  key systems  from moves,  adds,
changes,  service calls,  upgrades and new systems and a perpetual  royalty free
license to use the name "Communicate Direct", all free and clear of any security
interest,  mortgage, lien, charge,  restriction,  encumbrance,  conditional sale
agreement,  claim,  pledge or right of any party  (collectively,  "Liens").  The
Purchased  Assets include,  without  limitation,  all unfilled  customer orders,
transferable Licenses (as hereinafter defined), sales literature and promotional
materials,  customer lists,  books,  records and files used by Company solely in
connection with the Business.  On the Closing Date, the Company shall deliver to
the  Purchaser  all of the  Purchased  Assets  by bills  of  sale,  assignments,
endorsements and other good and sufficient  instruments of transfer necessary or
desirable to vest in the Purchaser good,  complete and indefeasible title to the
Purchased Assets, free and clear of all Liens.

         1.2 Further  Assurances . From time to time after the Closing  Date, at
the Purchaser's request and without further consideration  therefor, the Sellers
shall  perform,  execute  and  deliver or cause to be  performed,  executed  and
delivered, all such further acts, deeds, assignments, transfers, conveyances and
assurances  as the  Purchaser  may  reasonably  require  for the more  effective
assigning,  transferring,  granting, conveying, selling, assuring and confirming
to the Purchaser and its successors and assigns, and for aiding and assisting in
reducing to possession,  the Purchased  Assets  transferred or to be transferred
pursuant  to  this  Agreement  and  as may  be  appropriate  to  carry  out  the
transactions contemplated hereby.


                                   ARTICLE II
                          No Assumption of Liabilities

         2.1  Non-Assumption  of Liabilities . The parties  expressly  agree and
understand  that the Purchaser shall assume no liabilities or obligations of the
Business or either of the  Sellers.  Sellers  shall  remain  liable for each and
every liability of Sellers, including, without limitation, the following:

                   (i) any and all Taxes (as  hereinafter  defined)  related  or
              attributable  to any and all  periods  ending  on or  prior to the
              Closing Date, as well as any and all Taxes  incurred in connection
              with the transactions contemplated hereby;

                   (ii) any and all fees,  costs,  expenses or other obligations
              incurred  by or on behalf of the Sellers in  connection  with this
              Agreement  or the  transactions  contemplated  hereby,  including,
              without  limitation,  all fees to attorneys,  investment  bankers,
              accountants or others for services rendered;

                   (iii) any and all brokers' or finders'  fees,  commissions or
              like payments  arising out of or based upon any act or omission of
              the Sellers;

                   (iv)  any and all  liabilities  based on any  claim,  suit or
              proceeding  alleging a violation  of any  federal,  state or local
              law, regulation, code or ordinance, including, without limitation,
              product liability,  employee safety, health or other laws, and any
              other third party  claims,  resulting  from any act or omission by
              any of the Sellers which  occurred on or prior to the Closing Date
              and which  relate to the Sellers,  the  Business or the  Purchased
              Assets;

                   (v) any and all  liabilities,  whether or not known to any of
              the Sellers,  based on,  arising out of or otherwise in respect of
              any act or omission of any of the Sellers or any other  party,  or
              any  event  or  condition  on or  off  the  premises  of  Company,
              occurring  at any  time  on or  prior  to  the  Closing  Date  and
              regardless of when notice thereof is received,  related to matters
              of environmental protection, pollution, health, safety, or related
              to  warranty  obligations  in  connection  with  products  sold or
              services  rendered on or prior to the Closing  Date, or related to
              matters of unfunded or underfunded pension liabilities; and

                   (vi) any other liability,  obligation, claim or commitment of
              any of the  Sellers  (whether  disclosed  or  undisclosed,  fixed,
              absolute,   accrued,   ordinary,   extraordinary,   contingent  or
              otherwise,  direct or  indirect,  primary or  secondary,  known or
              unknown),  including,  but not limited to,  liability to Company's
              employees under Company's benefit plans or COBRA.

         2.2 Tail  Insurance  . Sellers  agree to obtain and  maintain  adequate
business  discontinuation  (tail) insurance or  occurrence-based  insurance with
respect to the Business.


                                   ARTICLE III
                                 Purchase Price

         3.1 Purchase  Price . The total purchase price for all of the Purchased
Assets (the "Purchase Price") shall be Six Hundred Eighty-Four  Thousand Dollars
($684,000).

         3.2  Payment . Subject to the terms and  conditions  set forth  herein,
Purchaser   shall  pay  the  Purchase  Price  by  delivery  of  its  nonrecourse
installment promissory note, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit A hereto and
made a part hereof.

         3.3 Allocation of Purchase Price . The Purchaser and the Sellers hereby
agree that the Purchase Price shall be allocated among the Purchased  Assets for
all  purposes,  including  the filing of all tax  returns and  Internal  Revenue
Service Form 8594, as $612,479.88  to the accounts  receivable and the remainder
as Purchaser  shall  determine,  subject to Company's  consent which will not be
unreasonably withheld. Each party will promptly notify the other if the Internal
Revenue  Service  or any other  taxing  authority  proposes  to  reallocate  the
Purchase Price.


                                   ARTICLE IV
                                     Closing

         4.1 Closing  Date . The  transactions  contemplated  by this  Agreement
shall be consummated at a closing (the "Closing") to be held at 10:00 a.m. local
time at the  offices of  Sellers'  counsel,  Pedersen & Houpt,  161 North  Clark
Street, Suite 3100, Chicago,  Illinois 60601-3224, on June ___, 1996, or on such
other date or at such other time or place as the parties may mutually  determine
(the "Closing Date").

         4.2 Deliveries by the Purchaser . At the Closing,  the Purchaser  shall
deliver to the Company the following:

                   (a) The installment  promissory  note, in  substantially  the
              form attached hereto as Exhibit A;

                   (b) An opinion of Holleb & Coff, as counsel to the Purchaser,
              dated as of the Closing Date, affirmatively opining to the matters
              set forth in Sections 5.2(a) and (b);

                   (c) The Sublease (as defined in Section 6.3 hereof), executed
              by Purchaser;

                   (d) The  Administrative  Services  Agreement  (as  defined in
              Section 6.4 hereof), executed by Purchaser;

                   (e) The Non-Competition  Agreement (as defined in Section 6.5
              hereof), executed by Purchaser; and

                   (f) Such other  documents  and  certificates  required  to be
              executed or delivered at the Closing in accordance  with the terms
              of this Agreement.

         4.3  Deliveries  by the Sellers . At the  Closing,  the  Sellers  shall
deliver to the Purchaser the following:

                   (a)  Warranty  Bill  of  Sale  substantially  in the  form of
              Exhibit B attached  hereto and made a part hereof,  conveying  the
              tangible Purchased Assets to the Purchaser;

                   (b)  Assignment  substantially  in  the  form  of  Exhibit  C
              attached  hereto and made a part hereof,  conveying the intangible
              Purchased Assets to the Purchaser;

                   (c) An  opinion  of  Pedersen  &  Houpt,  as  counsel  to the
              Sellers,  dated as of the Closing Date,  affirmatively  opining to
              the matters set forth in Sections 5.1(a), (b), (c) and (e).

                   (d) The Sublease, executed by the Company;

                   (e) The Administrative  Services  Agreement,  executed by the
              Company;

                   (f) The Non-Competition  Agreement,  respectively executed by
              the Company and Sellers; and

                   (g) Such other  documents  and  certificates  required  to be
              executed or delivered at the Closing by one or more of the Sellers
              in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.


                                    ARTICLE V
                         Representations and Warranties

         5.1 Representations and Warranties of the Sellers . Each of the Sellers
hereby represents and warrants to the Purchaser on and as of the date hereof and
on and as of the Closing Date as follows:

                   (a)  Organization  and Standing.  The Company and SoftNet are
              corporations duly organized, validly existing and in good standing
              respectively  under  the laws of the  States of  Illinois  and New
              York.  The Company is duly qualified to do business and is in good
              standing  in each  jurisdiction  in  which  the  character  of the
              properties  owned or held  under  lease by it or the nature of the
              business  transacted by it makes such  qualification  necessary or
              where its failure to qualify to do business would adversely affect
              the Company, its financial condition,  its business or its ability
              to perform the  transactions  contemplated by this Agreement.  The
              Company has all  requisite  corporate  power and authority and all
              requisite  and  sufficient  licenses,   franchises,   permits  and
              authorizations (collectively, the "Licenses") to own and lease its
              properties  and assets,  including  the Purchased  Assets,  and to
              carry  on the  Business  as and  where  presently  conducted.  All
              Licenses held by the Company in  connection  with the Business are
              more particularly described on Schedule 5.1(a) attached hereto and
              made  a part  hereof.  Such  Licenses  are  all  of  the  Licenses
              necessary to the conduct of the Business by the  Purchaser and all
              are  included as part of the  Purchased  Assets.  No  governmental
              proceeding is pending or  threatened to cancel,  modify or fail to
              renew any such License.

                   (b) Corporate Action.  The Company and SoftNet each have full
              corporate   power  and  authority  to  execute  and  deliver  this
              Agreement,  to sell,  assign,  transfer and deliver the  Purchased
              Assets to the  Purchaser,  and  otherwise  to  perform  all of its
              respective   obligations   hereunder   and   to   consummate   the
              transactions  contemplated hereby. All shareholder,  corporate and
              other  proceedings  required  to be taken by or on the part of the
              Company  and  SoftNet  to  execute,  deliver  and  carry  out this
              Agreement and to authorize the Company to sell, assign,  transfer,
              convey and deliver the Purchased Assets to the Purchaser have been
              duly and properly taken. Assuming the due authorization, execution
              and delivery hereof by the Purchaser,  this Agreement  constitutes
              the legal,  valid and binding  obligation  of each of the Sellers,
              enforceable in accordance  with its terms,  and all instruments of
              transfer  and  other  documents  to  be  delivered  in  connection
              herewith,  when  executed  and  delivered  by such  Sellers,  will
              constitute  legal,  valid and binding  obligations  of each of the
              Sellers, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.

                   (c) Negation of Default.  The  execution and delivery of this
              Agreement by each Seller, its compliance with the terms hereof and
              its consummation of the transactions  contemplated hereby will not
              violate,  conflict  with or result in a breach of any provision of
              the  Articles  of  Incorporation  or  by-laws  of the  Company  or
              SoftNet,  respectively,  or  (whether  with due notice or lapse of
              time or  otherwise)  constitute a default,  require the consent of
              any  third  party  which has not been  received,  give rise to any
              right of acceleration or result in the creation of any Lien under,
              or  otherwise  result in a breach or violation  of, any  contract,
              agreement,  lease,  commitment,  indenture,  mortgage, trust deed,
              note, bond, debenture,  License or other instrument or obligation,
              or any  judgment,  order or  decree of any  court,  administrative
              agency  or  other  governmental  authority,  to  which  any of the
              Sellers  is a party or  otherwise  subject  or by which any of the
              Sellers  or any of  their  respective  properties  (including  the
              Purchased  Assets) may be bound. No notice is required to be given
              to any state, local or other governmental  authority to consummate
              the transactions  contemplated hereby or to transfer the Purchased
              Assets free of any state, local or other statutory Lien.

                   (d) Title to  Purchased  Assets.  The  Sellers  have and will
              convey to the Purchaser  good and  marketable  title to all of the
              Purchased  Assets,  free  and  clear  of  any  Liens.  All  of the
              Purchased Assets,  including claims,  contracts,  orders,  leases,
              licenses  and  other  rights,  are  assignable  without  the prior
              consent of any third party or, if prior consent is required,  such
              consent has been obtained.

                   (e) Litigation. There are no claims, actions, suits, legal or
              administrative  proceedings,  governmental  investigations  or any
              labor matters pending or to Sellers' knowledge  threatened against
              or adversely  affecting  the  Sellers,  the Business or any of the
              Purchased Assets, nor to Sellers' knowledge any basis for any such
              claim,   action,   suit,  legal  or   administrative   proceeding,
              governmental   investigation   or  labor  matter.   There  are  no
              judgments,  decrees,   settlements,   orders,  rulings,  writs  or
              injunctions  involving  the  Sellers,  the  Business or any of the
              Purchased Assets which (either by reason of compliance or default)
              may  adversely  affect the  Sellers,  the  Business  or any of the
              Purchased  Assets,  or which relate in any way to the transactions
              contemplated by this Agreement.

                   (f)  Taxes.  All Taxes due or to become  due by reason of the
              Purchased  Assets or the  operation of the Business by the Company
              or by Sellers'  other  businesses  prior to the Closing  Date have
              been or will be paid  when due.  There  are no Tax Liens  upon any
              property  or  assets  of  any  of the  Sellers  pertaining  to the
              Business.  There is no  examination  or proceeding  pending by any
              authority or agency  relating to the  assessment  or collection of
              any Taxes,  or any  interest or  penalties  thereon,  due from any
              Seller,  nor  does  any  Seller  know of any  basis  for any  such
              assessment. For purposes of this Agreement, "Tax" or "Taxes" shall
              mean all taxes,  including,  without limitation,  income,  capital
              stock,  gross  receipts,  net proceeds,  ad valorem,  value added,
              goods and services,  turnover,  sales,  use, real estate transfer,
              real property, personal property (tangible and intangible), stamp,
              leasing, lease, user, excise,  franchise,  transfer, fuel, vehicle
              sales,  excess profits,  occupational  and interest  equalization,
              unitary,  severance,  withholding,  employment  and  other  taxes,
              duties,  assessments,  imposts  and  charges  (including,  without
              limitation,  the recapture of any tax items such as investment tax
              credits),  together  with all  interest,  penalties  and additions
              imposed with respect to such amounts,  which are due or claimed to
              be due by federal,  state or local taxing authorities or which are
              payable with respect to the  Business,  operations  or property of
              any Seller.

                   (g)  Accounts  Receivable.  All  accounts  receivable  of the
              Company  which are  reflected  on Schedule 1.1 (a) have no current
              right of  counter-claim or set-off against them; and (b) are owned
              by the Company free of any Liens,  choate or inchoate,  liquidated
              or unliquidated.  Sellers make no representation or warranty as to
              the collectability of such accounts receivable.

                   (h)  Misstatement  or Omission.  There are no material  facts
              relating  to  the   Purchased   Assets,   liabilities,   earnings,
              properties  or  operations  of the  Business  which  have not been
              disclosed  to the  Purchaser  in writing in this  Agreement or the
              schedules or exhibits hereto. No representation or warranty by the
              Sellers in this Agreement or in any other  agreement,  document or
              instrument executed in connection herewith, including any exhibit,
              schedule,   written  statement,   certificate  or  other  document
              furnished  or to be furnished  by the Sellers  pursuant  hereto or
              thereto or in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby
              or thereby,  contains or will  contain any untrue  statement  of a
              material  fact,  or omits or will  omit to state a  material  fact
              required  to be stated  herein or  therein  necessary  to make the
              statements  contained herein or therein not misleading.  Copies of
              all documents heretofore furnished by the Sellers to the Purchaser
              are true, correct and complete copies of such documents, including
              all amendments or modifications thereto.

         5.2  Representations  and  Warranties  of the Purchaser . The Purchaser
hereby  represents  and warrants to the Sellers on and as of the date hereof and
on and as of the Closing Date as follows:

                   (a) Organization and Standing. The Purchaser is a corporation
              duly  organized,  validly  existing and in good standing under the
              laws of the State of Illinois.  The  Purchaser  has all  requisite
              corporate  power and authority  and all  requisite and  sufficient
              licenses,  franchises, permits and authorizations to own and lease
              its  properties  and  assets and to carry on its  business  as and
              where currently conducted.

                   (b) Corporate Action.  The Purchaser has full corporate power
              and authority to execute and deliver this  Agreement,  to purchase
              the  Purchased  Assets from the Sellers,  and otherwise to perform
              all  of  its   obligations   hereunder  and  to   consummate   the
              transactions   contemplated   hereby.   All  corporate  and  other
              proceedings  required  to be  taken  by  or on  the  part  of  the
              Purchaser  to  authorize,  execute,  deliver  and  carry  out this
              Agreement and to purchase the Purchased  Assets have been duly and
              properly  taken.  Assuming the due  authorization,  execution  and
              delivery  hereof by the Sellers,  this Agreement  constitutes  the
              legal, valid and binding obligation of the Purchaser,  enforceable
              in  accordance  with its  terms,  and all  other  documents  to be
              delivered in connection  herewith,  when executed and delivered by
              the  Purchaser,   will   constitute   legal,   valid  and  binding
              obligations of the Purchaser, enforceable in accordance with their
              respective terms.


                                   ARTICLE VI
                            Covenants and Agreements

         6.1  Satisfaction of Liabilities . From and after the Closing Date, the
Sellers  agree to pay,  perform  and  otherwise  satisfy in full when due all of
their  liabilities  and  obligations  which  relate to or which may  affect  the
Business or the Purchased  Assets.  It is recognized and agreed that any failure
by the Sellers to comply with the foregoing may adversely affect the Business or
the  Purchased  Assets,  or  both,  as well  as the  benefits  available  to the
Purchaser from the transactions  contemplated hereby, and that the Purchaser has
a legitimate  interest in assuring such liabilities and obligations are properly
paid,  performed  and  satisfied.  In the event  that the  Purchaser  shall pay,
perform  or  otherwise  satisfy  any such  liabilities  or  obligations,  either
inadvertently or, after not less than ten (10) days' prior notice to the Sellers
thereof,  because the Purchaser deems it necessary to do so in order to preserve
the good will of  customers,  vendors,  employees  or other third  parties,  the
Sellers  jointly and severally  agree to reimburse  the  Purchaser  therefor not
later than ten (10)  business  days after  receipt  of notice  thereof  from the
Purchaser.

         6.2  Employment  Matters . Schedule  6.2  attached  hereto  lists those
individuals  who are  employed  by the  Company  and the  portion of their total
compensation  attributable to the Business,  along with similar estimates of the
cost necessary to hire additional personnel as part of Purchaser's initial sales
force.

         6.3 Sublease . On or before the Closing  Date,  the  Purchaser  and the
Company  shall  enter into a  sublease  agreement  substantially  in the form of
Exhibit D attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "Sublease").

         6.4 Administrative  Services Agreement . On or before the Closing Date,
the  Purchaser  and the  Company  shall  enter into an  administrative  services
agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit E attached hereto and made a part
hereof (the "Administrative Services Agreement").

         6.5  Non-Competition  Agreement  . On or before the Closing  Date,  the
Purchaser  and  the  Sellers  shall  enter  into  a  non-competition   agreement
substantially  in the form of Exhibit F attached  hereto and made a part  hereof
(the "Non-Competition Agreement").

         6.6  Company's  Inventory  . Company  agrees to maintain  its  existing
Business key systems  inventory in good and  saleable  condition.  To the extent
Purchaser needs to purchase such inventory items,  Purchaser shall, from time to
time,  purchase portions of such inventory at Company's direct cost on an if and
as needed basis.

         6.7 Customer  Installation,  Servicing and Warranty  Repair.  Purchaser
shall perform or subcontract out all of its installation,  service, warranty and
repair work. At Purchaser's  option,  Sellers will receive and process telephone
calls,  including online help, work order  preparation,  dispatch and work order
closure, for all service, warranty and repair work. Sellers shall bill Purchaser
for all such  calls at a rate of Fifty  Dollars  ($50) per call.  To the  extent
Purchaser selects Sellers, or their affiliates, to perform any service, warranty
or repair work,  Sellers shall perform such work on a competitive  basis and all
profit from such work is to be split  fifty-fifty  (50/50) between Purchaser and
Sellers.

         6.8 Shortfall  Reimbursement  . To the extent,  if any, that  Purchaser
accrues  a net  operating  loss for the first  twelve  (12)  consecutive  months
following  Closing  exclusive of  depreciation,  bad debts,  sales and marketing
expenses and expenses in excess of $662,665 in  connection  with its sales force
(in the aggregate,  a  "Shortfall"),  Sellers shall  reimburse  Purchaser to the
extent of such Shortfall,  to a maximum of One Million  Dollars  ($1,000,000) in
the aggregate.  The Shortfall  shall be computed and recomputed as of the end of
each month,  and the net  Shortfall,  if any,  shall be paid  immediately  after
notice of such Shortfall.  To the extent that any reimbursable  Shortfall is not
paid by  Sellers  immediately  after such  notice,  Purchaser  may  offset  such
Shortfall against the next payments due under the installment promissory note to
the extent of such  amounts.  During the first  twelve (12)  consecutive  months
following  Closing,  Purchaser  shall  operate the  Business  in a  commercially
reasonable manner.

         6.9 Purchaser's  Advertising Commitment . During the fifteen (15) month
period  subsequent  to Closing,  Purchaser  will invest  Five  Hundred  Thousand
Dollars ($500,000) or more in (a) outdoor, radio and print advertising,  and (b)
additional  costs  and  expenses,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  salaries,
commissions,  benefits,  etc., in connection with expanding  Purchaser's initial
sales force.

         6.10 Right of First  Refusal . If Buyer  receives  an offer to purchase
all or substantially  all of its assets or all or substantially all of its stock
(in a  private  transaction,  not a public  offering)  during  the five (5) year
period  subsequent  to  Closing,  such that Dean  Becker  shall no longer own or
control Purchaser, directly or indirectly, Purchaser will notify SoftNet of such
offer and grant  SoftNet  thirty (30) days to match such offer in all  respects,
including  closing such  transaction.  If SoftNet  declines to  consummate  such
purchase, Purchaser shall be free to thereafter accept such offer and close such
transaction,  provided  that  the  ultimate  terms of such  transaction  are not
materially different than as presented to SoftNet.


                                   ARTICLE VII
                                 Indemnification

         7.1        Sellers' Indemnification .

                    (a) Notwithstanding any investigation by the Purchaser,  its
         attorneys or any of its agents or representatives, the representations,
         warranties  and  covenants of the Sellers set forth  herein,  or in any
         document or  instrument  delivered in  connection  herewith or pursuant
         hereto, and the liabilities of the Sellers with respect thereto,  shall
         survive the Closing.

                    (b) The Sellers, jointly and severally,  agree to indemnify,
         defend  and  hold  the  Purchaser  and  its  shareholders,   directors,
         officers,  employees, agents,  representatives,  successors and assigns
         harmless  from and  against  any and all  Losses  imposed  on,  accrued
         against,  sustained or incurred by such  indemnitees or any one of them
         resulting   from  or   arising   out  of  or  by  virtue  of:  (i)  any
         misrepresentation  or breach of warranty  made herein by the Sellers or
         non-compliance with, non-performance of or breach by the Sellers of any
         of the covenants of this Agreement to be performed by the Sellers;  and
         (ii) any and all  liabilities  arising out of or in connection with the
         conduct of the  Business  on or prior to the  Closing  Date or Sellers'
         other operations.

         7.2        Purchaser's Indemnification .

                    (a) The  representations,  warranties  and  covenants of the
         Purchaser set forth herein, or in any document or instrument  delivered
         in connection  herewith or pursuant hereto,  and the liabilities of the
         Purchaser with respect thereto, shall survive the Closing.

                    (b) The Purchaser  agrees to indemnify,  defend and hold the
         Sellers, their shareholders,  directors,  officers,  employees, agents,
         representatives,  successors and assigns  harmless from and against any
         and all Losses  imposed on, accrued  against,  sustained or incurred by
         such indemnitees or any one of them resulting from or arising out of or
         by virtue  of: (i) any  misrepresentation  or breach of  warranty  made
         herein  by the  Purchaser  or  non-compliance  with  or  breach  by the
         Purchaser of any of the covenants of this  Agreement to be performed by
         the Purchaser; and (ii) any and all liabilities and obligations arising
         out  of or in  connection  with  the  conduct  of the  Business  by the
         Purchaser after the Closing Date.

         7.3 Losses . For purposes of this  Agreement,  "Losses"  shall mean all
claims, actions, proceedings,  judgments, causes of action, liabilities (whether
fixed,  absolute,  accrued,  contingent  or  otherwise  and  whether  direct  or
indirect,  primary or  secondary,  known or unknown),  losses,  demands,  costs,
assessments,  damages,  interest,  penalties  or  expenses  (including,  without
limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and costs of litigation).


                                  ARTICLE VIII
                                  Miscellaneous

         8.1 Notices . Any notice,  request,  instruction or other communication
to be given  hereunder  by any party  hereto  shall be in  writing  and shall be
deemed to have been duly given on the date of  delivery,  provided  delivery  is
actually  tendered  at  the  appropriate  address,   addressed  to  the  persons
identified  below  (i) in  person,  or (ii) by  courier  service,  or  (iii)  by
facsimile  copy (with original copy mailed the same day), or (iv) three (3) days
after deposit in the U.S. mails by first class certified mail,  postage prepaid,
return receipt requested, all addressed as set forth below:

         (i)        If to the Sellers, to:

                    SoftNet Systems, Inc.
                    717 Forest Avenue
                    Lake Forest, Illinois  60045
                    Attn:  John I. Jellinek, President
                    Telephone No.:  (847)266-8150
                    Facsimile No.:  (847)266-8251

                    With a copy to:

                    Pedersen & Houpt
                    161 North Clark Street
                    Suite 3100
                    Chicago, Illinois  60601-3224
                    Attn:  Michael W. Black
                    Telephone No.:  (312)609-5693
                    Facsimile No.:  (312)641-6895

         (ii)       If to the Purchaser, to:

                    Extreme Communications, Inc.
                    P.O. Box 898
                    Highland Park, Illinois  60035
                    Attn:  Dean Becker
                    Telephone No.:  (847)266-8800
                    Facsimile No.:  (847)266-9697

                    With a copy to:

                    Holleb & Coff
                    55 East Monroe Street
                    Suite 4100
                    Chicago, Illinois 60603
                    Attn:  Mark S. Kipnis
                    Telephone No.:  (312)807-4600
                    Facsimile No.:  (312)807-3900

or to such  other  person or  persons at such  address  or  addresses  as may be
designated by written notice to the other party pursuant to this Section 8.1.

         8.2 Severability . If any provision of this Agreement is found invalid,
unenforceable  or in violation of any law by a court of competent  jurisdiction,
such  provision  shall be modified  only to the extent  necessary to enable such
provision to be valid and enforceable,  without affecting the remaining portions
of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.

         8.3  Mutual  Contribution  . The  parties to this  Agreement  and their
counsel have mutually contributed to its drafting. Consequently, no provision of
this  Agreement  shall be  construed  against  any party on the ground that such
party  drafted  the  provision  or caused  it to be  drafted,  or the  provision
contains a covenant of such party.

         8.4  Waivers  . No  delay on the part of any  party in  exercising  any
right,  power or  privilege  shall  operate as a waiver  thereof,  nor shall any
waiver of any right,  power or privilege operate as a waiver of any other right,
power or privilege, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, power
or  privilege  preclude  any other or further  exercise  thereof or of any other
right,  power  or  privilege.  The  rights  and  remedies  herein  provided  are
cumulative  and are not  exclusive  of any rights or remedies  which the parties
otherwise may have at law or in equity.

         8.5  Applicable  Law . This  Agreement  is  governed  by and  shall  be
construed  and enforced in  accordance  with the  internal  laws of the State of
Illinois.

         8.6  Waiver  of Jury  Trial . EACH  OF THE  PARTIES  HEREBY  KNOWINGLY,
VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHTS THEY EACH MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY
JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION BASED HEREON,  OR ARISING OUT OF, UNDER, OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER DOCUMENT OR INSTRUMENT  DELIVERED TO
THE OTHER AS OF THE DATE HEREOF,  PRIOR THERETO OR THEREAFTER,  OR ANY COURSE OF
CONDUCT, COURSE OF DEALING, STATEMENTS (WHETHER VERBAL OR WRITTEN) OR ACTIONS OF
THE  PARTIES  HERETO.  EACH OF THE PARTIES  ACKNOWLEDGES  AND AGREES THAT IT HAS
RECEIVED FULL AND  SUFFICIENT  CONSIDERATION  FOR THIS PROVISION (AND EACH OTHER
PROVISION OF EACH OTHER  DOCUMENT OR INSTRUMENT TO WHICH IT IS NOW OR WILL BE IN
THE FUTURE A PARTY) AND THAT THIS  PROVISION IS A MATERIAL  INDUCEMENT  FOR SUCH
PARTY ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND EACH SUCH OTHER DOCUMENT OR INSTRUMENT.

         8.7  Counterparts  .  This  Agreement  may be  executed  in one or more
counterparts,  each of  which  shall  be  deemed  an  original  but all of which
together shall constitute one and the same instrument.

         IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  each  of the  parties  hereto  has  caused  this
Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first written above.


PURCHASER:                                                    SELLERS:

EXTREME COMMUNICATIONS, INC.                COMMUNICATE DIRECT, INC.


    
By:                                              By:  
     ________________________                          _______________________ 
Its:                                             Its: 
     ________________________                          _______________________ 


                                                 SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.



                                                 By:  
                                                       _______________________ 
                                                 Its: 
                                                       _______________________ 



<PAGE>



                         LIST OF SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS



                                    Schedules

Schedule 1.1                        Accounts Receivable

Schedule 5.1(a)                     Licenses

Schedule 6.2                        Employees



                                    Exhibits

Exhibit A                           Installment Promissory Note

Exhibit B                           Warranty Bills of Sale

Exhibit C                           Assignment

Exhibit D                           Sublease

Exhibit E                           Administrative Services Agreement

Exhibit F                           Non-Competition Agreement


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-2.3
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>COMMUNICATE DIRECT PURCHASE AND SALE
<TEXT>





                       AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE


                  OF CERTAIN ASSETS OF COMMUNICATE DIRECT, INC.




<PAGE>






\42548\010\10AGTCDI.008
                                        i




                                        i

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

SECTION                                                                    PAGE


<PAGE>



SECTION                                                                    PAGE





\42548\010\10AGTCDI.008
                                       iii



Purchase and Sale of Assets..................................................  1
         1.1      Agreement to Purchase and Sell.............................  1
         1.2      Assumed Liabilities........................................  2
         1.3      Update of Schedules........................................  3
         1.4      Sublease...................................................  3
         1.5      Closing....................................................  3

Purchase Price and Payment Terms....................................... .....  3
         2.1      Purchase Price.............................................  3
         2.2      Method of Payment..........................................  3
         2.3      Allocation of the Purchase Price...........................  4

Representations and Warranties of Seller.....................................  4
         3.1      Seller's Organization and Standing.........................  4
         3.2      Seller's Corporate Authority...............................  5
         3.3      Events Subsequent to October 31, 1996......................  5
         3.4      Title to Personal Property.................................  5
         3.5      Litigation.................................................  5
         3.6      Consents...................................................  5
         3.7      Compliance with Law........................................  6
         3.8      Taxes......................................................  6
         3.9      Contracts..................................................  6
         3.10     Labor Relations............................................  6
         3.11     Benefit Plans..............................................  6
         3.12     Brokers and Finders........................................  6
         3.13     No Conflict or Violation...................................  6
         3.14     Discounts and Credits......................................  7
         3.15     Disclaimer of Warranties...................................  7

Representations and Warranties of Buyer......................................  7
         4.1      Buyer's Organization and Standing..........................  7
         4.2      Buyer's Corporate Authority................................  7
         4.3      Litigation.................................................  7
         4.4      Consents...................................................  7
         4.5      Brokers and Finders........................................  7
         4.6      No Conflict or Violation...................................  8
         4.7      Seller's Representations and Warranties....................  8

Covenants of Seller..........................................................  8
         5.1      Conduct of Seller's Business Pending Closing...............  8
         5.2      Access Pending Closing.....................................  8
         5.3      Consents of Third Parties..................................  8
         5.4      Introductions to Customers.................................  8


Buyer's Covenants............................................................  9
         6.1      Books and Records..........................................  9
         6.2      Consents...................................................  9
         6.3      Publicity..................................................  9

Mutual Covenants.............................................................  9
         7.1      Fairness Opinion...........................................  9
         7.2      Operations Pending Closing.................................  9
         7.3      Collection of Accounts Receivable.......................... 10
         7.4      Employees.................................................. 10

Conditions to Buyer's Obligations to Close................................... 11
         8.1      Representations and Warranties............................. 11
         8.2      Performance................................................ 11
         8.3      Updated Schedules.......................................... 11
         8.4      Fujitsu Contract........................................... 12
         8.5      Fairness Opinion........................................... 12
         8.6      Assignment Documents....................................... 12
         8.7      Tender of Possession....................................... 12
         8.8      Sublease....................................................12

Conditions to Seller's Obligations to Close.................................. 12
         9.1      Representations and Warranties............................. 12
         9.2      Performance................................................ 12
         9.3      Board Approval............................................. 12
         9.4      Fairness Opinion........................................... 12
         9.5      Assumption Documents....................................... 12
         9.6      Payment Note............................................... 12
         9.7      Release of Bank Loans...................................... 13
         9.8      Sublease................................................... 13

Indemnification ............................................................. 13
         10.1     Indemnification of Buyer................................... 13
         10.2     Seller's Indemnification Limitations....................... 13
         1010.3   Indemnification of Seller.................................. 13
         10.4     Procedure for Indemnification.............................. 14
         10.5     Survival................................................... 15
         10.6     Exclusive Remedy........................................... 15


<PAGE>


Miscellaneous................................................................ 15
         11.1     Seller's Knowledge.......................... .............. 15
         11.2     Written Agreement to Govern................................ 16
         11.3     Severability............................................... 16
         11.4     Notices.................................................... 16
         11.5     Parties in Interest........................................ 17
         11.6     Counterparts and Faxed Signatures.......................... 17
         11.7     Law to Govern.............................................. 17
         11.8     Successors and Assigns..................................... 17
         11.9     Further Assurances......................................... 17
         11.10    Gender, Number and Headings................................ 17
         11.11    Schedules and Exhibits..................................... 18
         11.12    Waiver of Provisions....................................... 18
         11.13    Expenses................................................... 18



<PAGE>







\42548\010\10AGTCDI.008
                                                         

                       AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE AND SALE
                           OF CERTAIN OF THE ASSETS OF
                            COMMUNICATE DIRECT, INC.

         THIS AGREEMENT is made in Chicago,  Illinois, this 9th day of December,
1996,  by and between  NEWTEL  BUFFALO  GROVE,  INC.,  an  Illinois  corporation
("Buyer") and COMMUNICATE DIRECT, INC., an Illinois corporation ("Seller") and a
wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.,  a New  York  Corporation
("SoftNet").

                              W I T N E S S E T H:

         WHEREAS,  Seller is engaged in the  business of  selling,  maintaining,
repairing,  servicing,  moving and  expanding  telephone  and data  systems (the
"Business");

         WHEREAS,  Seller  and Buyer  have  agreed  that  Seller  shall sell and
transfer and Buyer shall  purchase and assume,  certain assets used by Seller in
the Business and certain of Seller's liabilities on the terms and subject to the
conditions set forth herein;

         WHEREAS,  Seller and Buyer acknowledge that, following the transactions
contemplated in this  Agreement,  Seller will continue to engage in the Business
and further  acknowledge  that nothing in this  Agreement will in any way impair
Seller's right and ability to continue to engage in such Business; and

         NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the  mutual  agreements  herein
contained and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency
of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:


<PAGE>





1.    Purchase and Sale of Assets


      .1 Agreement to Purchase and Sell.  Seller hereby agrees to sell,  convey,
transfer,  assign and deliver the following  assets (the "Purchased  Assets") to
Buyer at the Closing (as defined in Section 1.5 below),  and Buyer hereby agrees
to purchase the  Purchased  Assets from Seller at the  Closing,  free and clear,
except as described on the schedules  attached  hereto,  of all liens,  pledges,
options,  claims, security interests,  successor liabilities and encumbrances of
whatever nature, or other similar right of any person, corporation, governmental
authority,  partnership,  company,  trust or  other  entity,  for the  aggregate
Purchase Price (as defined in Section 2.1 below):

                                    .1  The   right,   subject   to  the  rights
                                    described  on  Schedule  1.1.1,  to the name
                                    Communicate Direct, Inc.;

                                    .2 The specific  customer and mailing  lists
                                    described on Schedule 1.1.2;

                                    .3   Specific   accounts   receivable,    as
                                    described on Schedule 1.1.3;

                                    .4 Specific  inventories and parts supplies,
                                    subject  to  the  rights  as   described  on
                                    Schedule 1.1.4;

                                    .5 Specific  computer software and hardware,
                                    including    certain    computer    software
                                    currently owned by SoftNet, and rights under
                                    certain  computer  hardware  leases,  all as
                                    described on Schedule 1.1.5;

                                    .6 Specific  furniture and fixtures  located
                                    at the Seller's  facility in Buffalo  Grove,
                                    Illinois (the  "Facility"),  as described on
                                    Schedule 1.1.5;

                                    .7 Tools  and  equipment  and  rights  under
                                    certain equipment  leases,  all as described
                                    on Schedule 1.1.5;

                                    .8 Rights under certain vehicle  leases,  as
                                    described on Schedule 1.1.8;

                                    .9 Deposits, as described on Schedule 1.1.9;

                                    .10  Security  alarm  system  and  equipment
                                    located at the  Facility,  as  described  on
                                    Schedule 1.1.10; and

                                    .11 Vendor  warranties  and  guaranties,  as
                                    described on Schedule 1.1.11.

      .2 Assumed Liabilities.  Subject to and upon Closing,  Buyer hereby agrees
to  assume  the  following  liabilities  of Seller  related  to or  incurred  in
connection with the operation of the Business (the "Assumed Liabilities"):

                                    .1 Accounts payable and accrued expenses, as
                                    described on Schedule 1.2.1;

                                    .2  Accrued   sales  tax,  as  described  on
                                    Schedule 1.2.2;

                                    .3 Deferred revenue under service contracts,
                                    as described on Schedule 1.2.3;

                                    .4  Warranty   obligations  for  repair  and
                                    replacement  of  defective   workmanship  or
                                    materials, as described on Schedule 1.2.4;

                                    .5  Obligations   with  respect  to  certain
                                    vehicle  leases,  as  described  on Schedule
                                    1.2.5;

                                    .6  Obligations   with  respect  to  certain
                                    equipment and computer  hardware leases,  as
                                    described on Schedule 1.2.6;

                                    .7 Liabilities  and  obligations for accrued
                                    vacation,  sick  leave  and  holiday  pay to
                                    Buyer   Employees  (as  defined  in  Section
                                    7.4.1)

      .3 Update of Schedules.  Each of the Schedules  attached  hereto as of the
date hereof shall be updated by Seller on the Closing Date.

      .4 Sublease. On or prior to the Closing, Buyer and Seller shall enter into
a  sublease,  substantially  in the  form of  Exhibit  A  attached  hereto  (the
"Sublease")  for the  lease by  Buyer of a  portion  of the  Facility.  Payments
required under the Sublease shall be jointly and severally guaranteed,  pursuant
to a  guaranty  substantially  in the form  attached  hereto  as  Exhibit B (the
"Sublease  Guaranty"),  up to a maximum  aggregate  amount of  $400,000,  by the
following:  (a) John  Jellinek,  (b) Phil Kenny,  (c) Daniel Lee and (d) Michael
FSublease.  On or prior to the  Closing,  Buyer and  Seller  shall  enter into a
sublease,   substantially  in  the  form  of  Exhibit  A  attached  hereto  (the
"Sublease")  for the  lease by  Buyer of a  portion  of the  Facility.  Payments
required under the Sublease shall be jointly and severally guaranteed,  pursuant
to a  guaranty  substantially  in the form  attached  hereto  as  Exhibit B (the
"Sublease  Guaranty"),  up to a maximum  aggregate  amount of  $400,000,  by the
following:  (a) John  Jellinek,  (b) Phil Kenny,  (c) Daniel Lee and (d) Michael
Fainman.

      .5 Closing.  The  consummation  of the purchase and sale of the  Purchased
Assets and  assumption of the Assumed  Liabilities  (the  "Closing")  shall take
place at the  offices of Buyer's  counsel,  Rudnick & Wolfe,  203 North  LaSalle
Street,  Chicago,  Illinois  60601,  on such date and commencing at such time as
Seller and Buyer shall  agree,  but in no event later than 9:00 a.m. on December
9, 1996.  The date of the Closing is referred to herein as the  "Closing  Date".
Upon  Closing,  the  transactions  contemplated  hereby  shall be deemed to have
occurred  effective as of 12:01 a.m. on November 1, 1996 (the "Effective Date").
Seller shall  deliver  possession  of the  Purchased  Assets and the Sublease to
Buyer, and Buyer shall assume the Assumed  Liabilities and deliver to Seller the
Payment  Note and the  Payment  Note  Guaranties  (as  defined in Section  2.2.2
hereof) and the  Sublease and the  Sublease  Guaranty at the  Closing,  all such
deliveries  and  assumption  to be  deemed  to  have  occurred  on and as of the
Effective Date.



2.    Purchase Price and Payment Terms




      .1 Purchase Price. The aggregate  purchase price (the "Purchase Price") to
be paid to Seller by Buyer for the Purchased Assets shall be as follows:

                                    .1   The    assumption    of   the   Assumed
                                    Liabilities; plus

                                    .2 The sum of the amounts  shown in Sections
                                    2.2.2, 2.2.3, and 2.2.4.

      .2 Method of Payment.  Buyer shall pay the Purchase Price to Seller in the
following manner on the Closing Date:

                                    .1   Buyer   shall    assume   the   Assumed
                                    Liabilities;

                                    .2  $209,579  shall be paid by a  promissory
                                    note (the "Payment Note"),  substantially in
                                    the form attached hereto as Exhibit C.

                                    .3  An  amount  equal  to  the   outstanding
                                    principal  and  accrued  interest  as of the
                                    Closing shall be paid,  on Seller's  behalf,
                                    to West  Suburban Bank as payment in full of
                                    indebtedness  incurred  by Seller to finance
                                    certain  leasehold  improvements  located at
                                    the Facility.

                                    .4  An  amount  equal  to  the   outstanding
                                    principal  and  accrued  interest  as of the
                                    Closing shall be paid, on SoftNet's  behalf,
                                    to West  Suburban Bank as payment in full of
                                    indebtedness  incurred by SoftNet to finance
                                    certain computer software purchases.

      The Payment Note shall be unsecured and Seller shall agree to  subordinate
amounts due and owing under the Payment Note to debt incurred by Buyer to a bank
or other institutional  lender, and to execute evidence of such subordination as
necessary,  on such terms and conditions as Seller shall  approve.  Repayment of
the  Payment  Note  shall  be  severally  guaranteed,   pursuant  to  individual
guaranties  substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D (the "Payment
Note Guaranties"),  by each of the following: (a) John Jellinek, (b) Phil Kenny,
(c) Daniel Lee, and (d) Michael Fainman.

      .3 Allocation of the Purchase Price. The Purchase Price shall be allocated
by Seller and Buyer among the Purchased Assets in the manner mutually determined
by Buyer and Seller in good faith and as set forth on  Schedule  2.3.  Buyer and
Seller  shall  (a)  reflect  the  Purchased  Assets  in their  books and for tax
reporting  purposes  in  accordance  with such  allocations,  (b) file all forms
required  under  Section  1060 of the  Internal  Revenue  Code and all other tax
returns and reports in accordance with and based upon such  allocation,  and (c)
unless  required to do so in accordance  with a  "determination",  as defined in
Section  1313(a)(1) of the Internal  Revenue  Code,  take no position in any tax
return,  tax proceeding,  tax audit or otherwise which is inconsistent with such
allocation.



3.    Representations and Warranties of Seller


      Seller hereby  represents and warrants to Buyer, as of the date hereof, as
follows:

      .1 Seller's  Organization and Standing.  Seller is a corporation  which is
duly  organized,  validly  existing and in good  standing  under the laws of the
State  of  Illinois.  Seller  is duly  qualified  to do  business  as a  foreign
corporation  and  is in  good  standing  in  each  jurisdiction  in  which  such
qualification  is necessary  under  applicable law as a result of the conduct of
its business or the  ownership  of its  properties,  except in any  jurisdiction
where the failure to do so would not have any material adverse effect on Seller.
Seller has full  corporate  power and authority to conduct its business as it is
presently being conducted and to own and lease its properties and assets.



<PAGE>



      .2  Seller's  Corporate  Authority.  Seller has full  corporate  power and
authority  to execute and deliver this  Agreement  and the other  documents  and
agreements  referred to herein and to perform all of its  obligations  hereunder
and thereunder.  Seller's execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other
documents  and  agreements  referred to herein and Seller's  performance  of its
obligations  hereunder and thereunder have been duly authorized by all necessary
corporate action. This Agreement and the other documents and agreements referred
to  herein  are a legal,  valid and  binding  agreements  of Seller  and each is
enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms except as may be limited
by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws
or by the unavailability of equitable remedies.




<PAGE>



      .3Events  Subsequent  to  October  31,  1996.  To  the  best  of  Seller's
knowledge,  except to the extent set forth in Schedule 3.3 hereto, since October
31, 1996 there has not been:


                           (a)  Any  material  damage,   destruction,   loss  or
         forfeiture  (whether or not covered by insurance)  affecting any of the
         Purchased Assets; or

                           (b) Any material change in the Assumed Liabilities or
         in  the  manner  in  which  Seller  operates  the  Business  which  may
         reasonably  be  expected  to  have a  material  adverse  effect  on the
         Purchased Assets or Assumed Liabilities; or

                           (c) Any  written  notice  received by Seller from any
         material  customer  indicating  any  intention  to curtail,  suspend or
         terminate such customer's business relationship with Seller.

      .4 Title to Personal Property. Seller has good and marketable title to the
Purchased  Assets,  free  and  clear  of any and  all  liens,  claims,  security
interests,  options,  leases,  restrictions or encumbrances of whatever  nature,
except as described on Schedule 3.4.

      .5  Litigation.  Except as listed on Schedule  3.5, to Seller's  knowledge
there  is no suit,  arbitration,  claim,  investigation,  action  or  proceeding
pending or threatened before any court, arbitrator, administrative or regulatory
body,  or any  governmental  agency to which Seller is a party and which will or
could have any material  adverse effect upon any of the Purchased  Assets or the
Assumed  Liabilities  or  which  will or could  prevent  or  interfere  with the
consummation of the transaction  contemplated hereby. To Seller's knowledge,  no
such judgment,  order or decree has been entered, nor has any such determination
been made or liability been incurred, which has, or could have, such an effect.

      .6 Consents.  Except as specifically  set forth on Schedule 3.6, Seller is
not required to obtain any  consents or other  approvals  from any  governmental
agency or other person (including any lessor, customer, supplier or lender) as a
result of the transactions contemplated hereby.

      .7 Compliance  with Law. Seller is not in default under or in violation of
any  applicable  statute,  law,  ordinance,  decree,  order,  rule,  regulation,
franchise,  permit or license of any  governmental  body,  which may result in a
material  adverse  effect  upon  any  of the  Purchased  Assets  or the  Assumed
Liabilities.

      .8 Taxes.  Seller has timely filed all required  federal,  state and local
tax  returns and reports  relating to its  business,  and has paid all taxes due
with  respect  thereto.  Seller  does not have any  federal,  state or local tax
liabilities  other than those  reflected on such tax returns with respect to the
periods covered by such tax returns.

      .9 Contracts.  Except as set forth on Schedule 3.9,  there is no contract,
agreement,  commitment or  arrangement,  or any  outstanding  unaccepted  offer,
whether  written or oral,  express or  implied,  fixed or  contingent,  to which
Seller is a party or by which it or any of the Purchased Assets is bound,  which
has had, or may  reasonably be expected to have, a material  adverse effect upon
any of the Purchased Assets or the Assumed Liabilities.

      .10 Labor  Relations.ReSeller is not a party to or bound by any collective
bargaining  agreement.  To  Seller's  knowledge,   there  is  no  current  union
organizational  activity  with respect to the  employees of Seller and there has
not been any such activity in the past twelve months. To Seller's knowledge,  no
allegation,  charge or complaint of age, disability,  sex or race discrimination
or similar charge has been made or threatened against Seller.

      .11 Benefit  Plans.  Except as  described on Schedule  3.11,  there are no
employee  benefit  plans  currently  in effect  with  respect to any of Seller's
current or former employees.

      .12 Brokers and Finders.  Seller has not engaged or authorized any broker,
investment banker or other third party to act on its behalf,  either directly or
indirectly,  as a broker,  finder or advisor in connection with the transactions
contemplated hereby.

      .13 No Conflict or  Violation.  Assuming  that all  consents  described on
Schedule  3.6 have been  obtained  and  except as may  result  from any facts or
circumstances  relating  solely to Buyer,  the  execution  and  delivery of this
Agreement, the consummation of the transactions  contemplated by this Agreement,
and the  fulfillment  of the terms  hereof  do not and will not  result in (a) a
violation  of  or  conflict   with  any   provision  of  Seller's   Articles  of
Incorporation,  Bylaws, or other organizational documents, (b) a breach of, or a
default under, any term or provision of any contract,  agreement,  indebtedness,
encumbrance, commitment, license, franchise, permit, authorization or concession
to which Seller is a party and affecting any of the Purchased  Assets or Assumed
Liabilities,  other  than  such  breaches  or  defaults  which  would not have a
material  adverse effect on the Purchased Assets or Assumed  Liabilities,  (c) a
violation by Seller of any statute,  rule, regulation,  ordinance,  code, order,
judgment,  writ,  injunction,  decree or award, other than such violations which
would not have a  material  adverse  effect on the  Purchased  Assets or Assumed
Liabilities,  or (d) an imposition of any encumbrance,  restriction or charge on
any of the Purchased Assets.

      .14 Discounts and Credits.  Except as disclosed on Schedule  3.14,  Seller
has not  entered  into any  agreements,  does not have any  policy,  and has not
engaged  in any course of dealing  relating  to the  granting  of  discounts  or
credits to customers for any reason.

      .15  Disclaimer of  Warranties.  Except with respect to the warranties and
representations  specifically  set  forth  in this  Agreement,  Seller  makes no
warranty, express or implied, whether of merchantability, suitability or fitness
for a  particular  purpose,  or quality as to the  Purchased  Assets or any part
thereof,  or as to the condition or workmanship  thereof,  or the absence of any
defects therein, whether latent or patent.





4.    Representations and Warranties of Buyer

      Buyer  hereby  represents  and warrants to Seller as of the date hereof as
follows:

      .1 Buyer's Organization and Standing. Buyer is a corporation which is duly
organized,  validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of
Illinois.

      .2  Buyer's  Corporate  Authority.  Buyer  has full  corporate  power  and
authority to execute and deliver this Agreement,  the Payment Note and the other
documents  and  agreements  referred  to  herein  and  to  perform  all  of  its
obligations  hereunder and  thereunder.  Buyer's  execution and delivery of this
Agreement,  the Payment Note and the other documents and agreements  referred to
herein and the performance of its obligations hereunder and thereunder have been
duly authorized by all necessary corporate action.  This Agreement,  the Payment
Note and the other documents and agreements  referred to herein are legal, valid
and  binding  agreements  of Buyer  and  each is  enforceable  against  Buyer in
accordance  with its terms  except as may be limited by  applicable  bankruptcy,
insolvency, reorganization,  moratorium or similar laws or by the unavailability
of equitable remedies.

      .3 Litigation. There is no suit, arbitration, claim, investigation, action
or proceeding pending or threatened before any court, arbitrator, administrative
or  regulatory  body, or any  governmental  agency to which Buyer is a party and
which  will  or  could  prevent  or  interfere  with  the  consummation  of  the
transaction  contemplated  hereby.  No such  judgment,  order or decree has been
entered,  nor has any such  determination  been made or liability been incurred,
which has, or could have, such an effect.

      .4  Consents.  Buyer is not  required  to  obtain  any  consents  or other
approvals from any  governmental  agency or other person  (including any lessor,
customer,  supplier  or  lender)  as a result of the  transactions  contemplated
hereby.

      .5 Brokers and Finders.  Buyer has not engaged or  authorized  any broker,
investment banker or other third party to act on its behalf,  either directly or
indirectly,  as a broker,  finder or advisor in connection with the transactions
contemplated hereby.

      .6 No Conflict or Violation. The execution and delivery of this Agreement,
the Payment Note and the other documents and agreements  referred to herein, and
the  consummation of the  transactions  contemplated by this Agreement,  and the
fulfillment of the terms hereof do not and will not result in (a) a violation of
or conflict with any provision of Buyer's Articles of Incorporation,  Bylaws, or
other organizational documents, (b) a breach of, or a default under, any term or
provision of any contract,  agreement,  indebtedness,  encumbrance,  commitment,
license,  franchise,  permit,  authorization  or  concession to which Buyer is a
party, or (c) a violation by Buyer of any statute, rule, regulation,  ordinance,
code, order, judgment, writ, injunction, decree or award.

      .7 Seller's  Representations  and  Warranties.  Buyer does not know of any
breach  by  Seller  of its  representations  and  warranties  set  forth in this
Agreement or in the other documents and agreements referenced herein.


5.    Covenants of Seller

                
      Seller hereby covenants and agrees with Buyer as follows:

      .1 Conduct of Seller's  Business Pending Closing.  From the date hereof to
and including  the Closing  Date,  Seller shall operate the Business only in the
usual and ordinary course, consistent with past practice, and shall not, without
the prior written consent of Buyer, take or omit to take any action,  the effect
of which  act or  omission  would  render  any of  Seller's  representations  or
warranties set forth herein inaccurate as of the Closing Date.

      .2 Access  Pending  Closing.  From the date  hereof to and  including  the
Closing Date, Seller shall cause Buyer and its directors,  officers,  employees,
accountants,  and other agents and representatives to have the right of full and
complete  access to  Seller's  facilities,  books  and  records,  during  normal
business  hours  and on  reasonable  notice,  for the  purpose  of  making  such
investigation of Seller's business, assets, liabilities, condition (financial or
other), operations and prospects as Buyer may reasonably deem necessary.

      .3 Consents of Third Parties. Seller shall use its best efforts to obtain,
at its  expense,  all consents  and other  approvals  of all  lessors,  lenders,
governmental  authorities  and other  third  parties  which are  required  to be
obtained  by Seller in  connection  with the  transaction  contemplated  by this
Agreement.

      .4 Introductions  to Customers.  From the date hereof to and including the
Closing Date,  Seller shall provide Buyer with  introductions to the appropriate
representatives  of such of Seller's  customers  as Seller  shall  suggest or as
Buyer may reasonably request.


<PAGE>


6.    Buyer's Covenants

   
                        
      Buyer hereby covenants and agrees with Seller as follows:

      .1 Books and  Records.  In  connection  with (i) any tax audit of  Seller,
SoftNet or any of SoftNet's  shareholders,  or (ii) the  preparation  of any tax
return of Seller,  SoftNet or any of  SoftNet's  shareholders,  Buyer shall make
available to Seller,  SoftNet or such  shareholder  for inspection or copying at
any  reasonable  time within  seven (7) years after the  Closing  Date,  at such
entity's or  individual's  request and  expense,  all books and records  then in
Buyer's possession or control relating to Seller's Business which existed on the
Closing Date or which relate to any period prior to the Closing Date.

      .2 Consents.  Prior to the Closing,  Buyer shall  cooperate with Seller to
procure,  upon  reasonable  terms and  conditions,  all consents  and  approvals
required   hereunder  and  shall   complete  all  filings,   registrations   and
certificates  required to be made by Buyer in  connection  with the  transaction
contemplated herein.

      .3  Publicity.  Except as required by  applicable  law,  without the prior
written consent of Seller, (i) prior to the Closing, Buyer shall not disclose or
publish, or permit the disclosure or publication of, any information  concerning
the execution and delivery of this Agreement,  or the transactions  contemplated
by this  Agreement,  to any third  party and (ii) Buyer shall not  disclose  the
Purchase Price paid hereunder.



7     Mutual Covenants

                               
      The parties hereto hereby covenant and agree with one another as follows:

      .1 Fairness Opinion. Buyer and Seller acknowledge that principals of Buyer
are directors and substantial  shareholders of SoftNet;  accordingly SoftNet and
Seller will  obtain a so-called  fairness  opinion  with  respect to the subject
transaction in a form and from a firm acceptable to Seller.

      .2 Operations Pending Closing. The Closing of the transaction contemplated
hereby  shall be  effective  from and after the  Effective  Date and the parties
intend that all operations relating to the Purchased Assets shall be for Buyer's
account.  Accordingly,  (i) all cash receipts  relating to the Purchased  Assets
from and after the Effective Date shall be retained in Seller and used solely to
satisfy  obligations  relating to the Purchased  Assets and (ii) all liabilities
and obligations  relating to the Purchased  Assets or the Buyer Employees in the
ordinary  course of  business  from and after the  Effective  Date  shall be the
responsibility  of Buyer.  No funds or assets  relating to the Purchased  Assets
shall be  diverted to any other  purpose,  business  or  operation  of Seller or
SoftNet.  Seller shall use  reasonable  efforts to preserve the Business and the
Purchased Assets pending Closing and to retain existing  customer,  employee and
vendor  relationships.  If and to the extent the funds  from  operations  of the
Business  are  inadequate  to cover all  payroll,  employee  benefit and related
employee costs or to provide other essential services to employees or customers,
then  Seller or SoftNet  shall  provide the  shortfall  and funds so advanced by
Seller or SoftNet with respect to operations  between the Effective Date and the
Closing shall be repaid by Buyer to Seller in cash at Closing.

      .3 Collection of Accounts Receivable

                  .1 Subject to the terms of this  Section  7.3, at the Closing,
         Buyer will acquire hereunder, and thereafter Buyer shall have the right
         and authority to collect for Buyer's account those accounts  receivable
         listed on Schedule 1.1.3 (collectively,  the "Transferred Receivables")
         and Seller shall,  within five (5) days after receipt of any payment in
         respect of any of the  Transferred  Receivables,  properly  endorse and
         deliver to Buyer any cash,  checks or other  forms of  payment  (or the
         appropriate  portion thereof)  received on account thereof or otherwise
         relating thereto.

                  .2  Included  in  the  Transferred   Receivables  are  certain
         accounts  receivable  which are over  ninety  (90)  day's past due (the
         "Aged Receivables").  Buyer hereby agrees to use all reasonable efforts
         to  collect  the  amounts   outstanding  under  the  Aged  Receivables.
         Additionally,  notwithstanding  anything to the  contrary  contained in
         this  Agreement  or the other  agreements  and  documents  referred  to
         herein,  Buyer and  Seller  hereby  agree  that  Seller  shall  receive
         seventy-five  percent  (75%)  of any and  all  amounts  collected  with
         respect to the Aged  Receivables  and Buyer shall  receive  twenty-five
         percent  (25%)  thereof.  Seller  shall  pay to Buyer the  amounts  due
         pursuant to this Section 7.3.2 within five (5) days of Seller's receipt
         thereof.

                  .3 If and to the extent that all of the Aged  Receivables have
         not been  collected  within 120 days of the Closing  Date,  Buyer shall
         promptly  assign to Seller such  uncollected  Aged  Receivables and the
         right to pursue collection thereof.

      .4 Employees.

                  .1 Buyer shall offer  employment  to those  current  employees
         (the "Buyer  Employees")  of the Business  listed on Schedule  7.4.1 on
         substantially  equivalent  salary,  bonuses,  benefits  and  positions.
         Seller will use all  reasonable  efforts to retain all Buyer  Employees
         through the Closing.  Buyer shall not incur any liability or obligation
         with  respect  to any  employee  that does not accept  employment  with
         Buyer.  Buyer  will  not  incur  as a  result  of the  transfer  of the
         Purchased  Assets,  any  present,  future or  contingent  liability  or
         obligation to pay any pension benefits, medical benefits,  compensation
         for  loss of  employment  or  other  compensation  or  benefits  to any
         employee of Seller  (including  any Buyer  Employee)  terminated  on or
         prior to the Effective Date.  Except as  specifically  provided in this
         Section 7.4, Buyer shall be responsible for compensation,  benefits and
         other  employee-related  matters of the Buyer Employees  arising out of
         service on or after the Effective Date.

                  .2  Seller   shall   retain  all   liabilities,   perform  all
         obligations and maintain all insurance under the  Consolidated  Omnibus
         Budget  Reconciliation  Act  of  1985  ("COBRA")  with  respect  to its
         employees  and  former  employees  of the  Business  and their  covered
         dependents,  other than Buyer  Employees  who  accept  employment  with
         Buyer.

                  .3 Seller  shall be liable for any  severance,  separation  or
         similar liabilities,  that are payable (i) to any person whose right to
         severance or separation benefits arises as a result of the transactions
         contemplated  by this Agreement  (other than as a result of a breach by
         Buyer  of  its  obligations  hereunder),   (ii)  to  any  person  whose
         employment with Seller was terminated  prior to the Closing,  and (iii)
         to any employee of Seller not hired by Buyer. Buyer shall be liable for
         any  severance,   separation  or  similar  liabilities  for  all  Buyer
         Employees under Buyer's employment policies and procedures.

                  .4 Seller shall be liable for the  administration  and payment
         of all workers'  compensation  liabilities and benefits with respect to
         (i) Buyer  Employees  resulting  from  claims,  events,  circumstances,
         exposures,  conditions or occurrences  occurring prior to the Effective
         Date,  and (ii)  employees  and former  employees of Seller that do not
         become   Buyer   Employees.   Buyer  shall  be   responsible   for  the
         administration and payment of all workers' compensation liabilities and
         benefits with respect to Buyer Employees resulting from claims reported
         following the Effective Date, and resulting from events, circumstances,
         exposures,   conditions,  or  occurrences  after  the  Effective  Date,
         provided  Seller shall  administer  and pay all  workers'  compensation
         liabilities  and claims in the  ordinary  course of  business  from the
         Effective Date through  Closing and shall promptly  assign to Buyer any
         insurance  proceeds  attributable to the workers'  compensation  claims
         accepted by Buyer.



8     Conditions to Buyer's Obligations to Close



      Buyer's  obligations  to  proceed  with the  Closing  are  subject  to the
satisfaction on or before the Closing Date of each of the following conditions:

      .1  Representations  and  Warranties.  Each  of  the  representations  and
warranties of Seller  contained herein shall be true and correct in all material
respects on and as of the Closing Date.

      .2  Performance.  Seller  shall have duly  performed  or  complied  in all
material  respects  with  all of  the  covenants,  acts  and  obligations  to be
performed or complied with by them hereunder at or prior to the Closing.

      .3 Updated Schedules. Seller shall have delivered all Schedules hereto, in
accordance with Section 1.3 hereof.

      .4 Fujitsu  Contract.  Buyer shall have  received  from  Fujitsu  Business
Communications  a contract  acceptable to Buyer for continued  service and parts
for "imbedded base customers" which are essentially existing and prior customers
of Seller.

      .5 Fairness  Opinion.  Seller shall have  received  the  fairness  opinion
described in Section 7.1.

      .6  Assignment  Documents.  Seller  shall  deliver  to Buyer  an  executed
assignment and bill of sale and such other instruments of transfer and corporate
consents and documents as Buyer may reasonably request to effect the transfer of
the Purchased Assets in accordance herewith.

      .7 Tender of Possession. Seller shall tender to Buyer possession of all of
the Purchased Assets.

      .8 Sublease. Seller shall deliver to Buyer an executed Sublease. Sublease.



9.    Conditions to Seller's Obligations to Close


      Seller's  obligations  to  proceed  with the  Closing  are  subject to the
satisfaction on or before the Closing Date of each of the following conditions:

      .1  Representations  and  Warranties.  Each  of  the  representations  and
warranties of Buyer  contained  herein shall be true and correct in all material
respects on and as of the Closing Date.

      .2  Performance.  Buyer  shall  have duly  performed  or  complied  in all
material  respects  with  all of  the  covenants,  acts  and  obligations  to be
performed or complied with by it hereunder at or prior to the Closing.

      .3 Board Approval.  Seller's and SoftNet's  Boards of Directors shall have
approved the transactions contemplated hereby.

      .4 Fairness  Opinion.  Seller shall have received the  so-called  fairness
opinion, as described in Section 7.1.

      .5 Assumption Documents. Buyer shall deliver to Seller such instruments of
assumption and corporate consents and documents as Seller may reasonably request
to effect the  assumption  by Buyer of the  Assumed  Liabilities  in  accordance
herewith.

      .6 Payment  Note.  Buyer shall  tender to Seller the Payment  Note and the
Payment Note Guaranty as described in Section 2.2 hereof.

      .7 Release of Bank Loans.  Buyer shall have tendered to West Suburban Bank
the amounts  described in Sections 2.2.3 and 2.2.4 hereof and Seller and SoftNet
shall have  received  evidence of their  release  from the bank loans  described
therein.

      .8 Sublease.  Buyer shall  deliver to Seller an executed  Sublease and the
Sublease Guaranty as described in Section 1.4 hereof.



10    Indemnification
                      

      .1 Indemnification of Buyer. Seller shall indemnify, defend and hold Buyer
and its  officers,  directors,  shareholders,  employees  and agents,  and their
respective heirs, executors,  personal representatives,  successors and assigns,
harmless from and against any and all costs, expenses,  losses,  damages, fines,
penalties or liabilities (including,  without limitation,  interest which may be
imposed by any third party in  connection  therewith,  court  costs,  litigation
expenses,  reasonable  attorneys' and accountants' fees and expenses relating to
proof  of  claims)  (collectively  "Damages"  herein),  incurred  by any of such
parties with respect to, in  connection  with,  or arising  from,  or alleged to
result from, arise out of or in connection with:

                           .1  A  breach  by   Seller  of  any   representation,
         warranty,   covenant,   restriction  or  agreement  contained  in  this
         Agreement  or in any other  document  delivered  pursuant  hereto or in
         connection herewith; and

                           .2 Any  federal,  state  or local  taxes  or  customs
         duties payable by Seller and attributable to Seller's Business prior to
         the  Closing,  other than those  specifically  included  in the Assumed
         Liabilities; and

                           .3 Any environmental condition or occurrence relating
         to Seller's Business prior to the Closing; and

                           .4  Other   than   with   respect   to  the   Assumed
         Liabilities,  any other  matter  relating to the  operation of Seller's
         Business   prior  to  the  Closing,   including   without   limitation,
         obligations  undertaken,   accidents,  injuries,  property  damage  and
         products liability.

      .2 Seller's  Indemnification  Limitations.  With respect to any  indemnity
claims pursuant to Section 10.1,  Seller's liability shall be limited to Damages
incurred by Buyer which when  aggregated  with other Damages  incurred by Buyer,
exceed  $25,000  and  then,  only  to  the  extent  of  such  excess.   Seller's
indemnification obligations hereunder shall be limited to $209,579.

      .3  Indemnification  of Seller.  Buyer  shall  indemnify,  defend and hold
Seller and its shareholders,  directors,  officers,  employees,  agents,  heirs,
executors,  personal  representatives,  successors and assigns harmless from and
against any and all Damages  incurred by any of such parties with respect to, in
connection  with,  arising from, or alleged to result from,  arise out of, or in
connection with (i) a breach by Buyer of any representation, warranty, covenant,
restriction  or agreement  contained in this  Agreement or in any other document
delivered  pursuant  hereto  or  in  connection   herewith,   (ii)  the  Assumed
Liabilities or (iii) Buyer's use of the Purchased  Assets following the Closing,
including  without  limitation,  obligations  undertaken,  accidents,  injuries,
property damage and products liability.

      .4 Procedure for Indemnification.or Indemnification

                           .1 Any  party  which is  entitled  to be  indemnified
         hereunder (the "Indemnified  Party") shall give notice hereunder to the
         indemnifying  party  ("Indemnifying  Party")  promptly after  obtaining
         written  notice of any claim as to which recovery may be sought against
         such Indemnifying Party because of the terms of this Section 10 and, if
         such  indemnity  shall  arise  from the claim of a third  party,  shall
         permit the  Indemnifying  Party to assume the defense of any such claim
         and any  litigation  resulting from such claim using such legal counsel
         as shall be reasonably  acceptable to the Indemnified Party. Any notice
         given pursuant to this Paragraph  10.4.1 shall be accompanied by copies
         of  all  materials  in  possession  of  the  Indemnified   Party  which
         reasonably  relate to such claim.  Notwithstanding  the foregoing,  the
         right to indemnification hereunder shall not be affected by any failure
         of an  Indemnified  Party to give such notice or related  materials  or
         delay  by an  Indemnified  Party  in  giving  such  notice  or  related
         materials unless,  except to the extent that the rights and remedies of
         the  Indemnifying  Party shall have been  prejudiced as a result of the
         failure to give, or delay in giving,  such notice or related materials.
         Failure by an Indemnifying  Party to notify an Indemnified Party of his
         or its  election  to defend any such  claim or action by a third  party
         within  twenty-one (21) days after notice thereof shall have been given
         to the Indemnifying Party shall be deemed a waiver by such Indemnifying
         Party of his or its right to defend such claim or action.

                           .2 If the Indemnifying Party shall assume the defense
         of such claim or litigation resulting therefrom, the obligations of the
         Indemnifying  Party  hereunder  as to  such  claim  shall  include,  in
         addition to the  indemnification  required hereby, the taking all steps
         necessary  in the defense or  settlement  of such claim or  litigation.
         Such Indemnifying  Party shall not, in the defense of such claim or any
         litigation  resulting  therefrom,  consent to the entry of any judgment
         (other than a judgment of dismissal on the merits without costs) except
         with the written consent of the Indemnified  Party (which consent shall
         not be unreasonably withheld) or enter into any settlement (except with
         the written consent of the Indemnified Party which consent shall not be
         unreasonably  withheld) which does not include as an unconditional term
         thereof the giving by the claimant or the plaintiff to the  Indemnified
         Party of a release  from all  liability  in  respect  of such  claim or
         litigation.   Anything  in  this  Paragraph   10.4.2  to  the  contrary
         notwithstanding,  the Indemnified  Party may, with separate  counsel of
         its choice and at its expense,  participate  in the defense of any such
         claim or litigation.

                           .3 If the  Indemnifying  Party  shall not  assume the
         defense of any such claim by a third party, or any litigation resulting
         therefrom,  after receipt of notice from such  Indemnified  Party,  the
         Indemnified  Party may defend  against such claim or litigation in such
         manner as it deems  appropriate,  and  unless  the  Indemnifying  Party
         shall,  at  its  option,  provide  a  bond  to,  or  deposit  with  the
         Indemnified  Party a sum  equivalent  to the  lesser  of (x) the  total
         amount which may be required to be paid in indemnification  pursuant to
         this  Section  10 or (y) the total  amount  demanded  in such  claim or
         litigation  plus  the  Indemnified  Party's  estimate  of the  costs of
         defending  the same,  the  Indemnified  Party may settle  such claim or
         litigation on such terms as it may deem  appropriate and shall have the
         right to receive,  subject to the terms of this Agreement,  the Damages
         incurred  by the  Indemnified  Party in  connection  with  the  defense
         against or settlement of such claim or litigation.  If the Indemnifying
         Party shall provide such bond or deposit,  the Indemnified  Party shall
         not settle any such claim or litigation  without the written consent of
         the  Indemnifying  Party,  which  consent  shall  not  be  unreasonably
         withheld.

                           .4 Subject to any  limitation  expressly  established
         herein,  the Indemnified Party shall have the right to receive from the
         Indemnifying   Party  the  amount  of  all  Damages   incurred  by  the
         Indemnified  Party in  connection  with the defense  against a claim or
         litigation by a third party, whether or not resulting from, arising out
         of, or incurred with respect to, the act of a third party.

                           .5 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
         herein,  any and all amounts to be paid by Seller to Buyer  pursuant to
         this Section 10 shall be satisfied  solely by set-off by Buyer  against
         payments, if any, to be made by Buyer to Seller pursuant to the Payment
         Note, in reverse order of maturity.

      .5 Survival. Seller's representations and warranties contained in Sections
3.1,  3.2,  3.4,  3.5 (with  respect to  pending  suits,  arbitrations,  claims,
investigations,  actions or proceedings  only),  3.8, 3.12 and 3.15, and Buyer's
representations and warranties  contained herein, shall each survive the Closing
for a period of ninety (90) days.  No other  representations  and  warranties of
Seller shall  survive the Closing.  The  covenants  and  agreements of Buyer and
Seller set forth herein shall survive the Closing.

      .6 Exclusive Remedy. The  indemnification  rights provided in this Section
10 shall be the sole and  exclusive  remedy  available to each of the parties to
this Agreement as against the other party for any  misrepresentation,  breach of
warranty or failure to fulfill any covenant or agreement  contained herein or in
connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.



11.   Miscellaneous
                                  

      .1  Seller's  Knowledge.  As used in this  Agreement,  the term  "Seller's
knowledge" and all other  references to matters which are known by or to Seller,
shall refer to matters which are actually  known by John J. McDonough and Martin
A. Koehler.

      .2 Written  Agreement  to  Govern.  This  Agreement  sets forth the entire
understanding  and  supersedes  all prior and  contemporaneous  oral or  written
agreements among Seller,  Buyer, SoftNet and Telcom Midwest,  L.L.C. relating to
the  subject  matter  contained  herein,   including  the  Term  Sheet  for  the
Acquisition of the Assets of CDI which was executed  between  SoftNet and Buyer,
and merges all prior and  contemporaneous  discussions  among Seller,  Buyer and
SoftNet.  No  party  hereto  shall  be  bound  by  any  definition,   condition,
representation,  warranty,  covenant or provision other than as expressly stated
in this Agreement or as hereafter set forth in a written instrument  executed by
such party.

      .3  Severability.  The parties hereto  expressly  agree that it is not the
intention of any party hereto to violate any public policy,  statutory or common
law,  rules,  regulations,  treaties or  decisions of any  government  or agency
thereof. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, if any provision of this
Agreement is judicially or administratively interpreted or construed as being in
violation of any such  provision,  such articles,  sections,  sentences,  words,
clauses or combinations thereof shall be inoperative,  and the remainder of this
Agreement shall remain binding upon the parties hereto.

      .4  Notices.  Any and all  notices  necessary  or  desirable  to be served
hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given (a) if
delivered  in person and a receipt is given;  (b) if  communicated  by confirmed
facsimile  utilizing the fax numbers  referenced below; (c) if sent by overnight
delivery with a national  overnight courier service,  and addressed as set forth
below; or (d) if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,
prepaid, and addressed as follows:

                  If to Buyer:

                           Newtel Buffalo Grove, Inc.
                           1425 North Busch Parkway
                           Buffalo Grove, Illinois 60089
                           Facsimile:       (847) 821-2228
                           Attn:  Mr. John Jellinek

                           with a copy to:

                           Rudnick & Wolfe
                           203 North LaSalle Street
                           Suite 1800
                           Chicago, Illinois 60601
                           Facsimile:       (312) 236-7516
                           Attn:  Paul D. Rudnick, Esq.




<PAGE>


                  If to Seller:

                           Communicate Direct, Inc.
                           717 Forest Avenue
                           Lake Forest, Illinois 60045
                           Facsimile: (847) 266-8250
                           Attn: John J. McDonough

                           with a copy to:

                           McDermott, Will & Emery
                           227 West Monroe St.
                           Chicago, Illinois 60606
                           Facsimile: (312) 984-3669
                           Attn: H. George Mann, Esq.

or at such other  address or addresses any party hereto may designate for itself
or himself  from time to time in a written  notice  served upon each other party
hereto in accordance herewith.

      .5  Parties in  Interest.  Other than  those  specific  rights  granted to
SoftNet herein, nothing in this Agreement,  or in any other document referred to
herein,  whether  express or implied,  is intended  to: (i) confer any rights or
remedies  on any  persons  other than the  parties  hereto and their  respective
successors and assigns;  (ii) relieve or discharge the  obligations or liability
of any third  parties;  or (iii) give any third parties any right of subrogation
over or  action  against  the  parties  to this  Agreement  or their  respective
successors and assigns.

      .6 Counterparts  and Faxed  Signatures.  This Agreement may be executed in
any number of counterparts,  and each  counterpart  shall constitute an original
instrument, but all such separate counterparts shall constitute one and the same
agreement.  This  Agreement  may be executed by  original  signatures  or by fax
copies of original signatures.

      .7 Law to Govern.  The validity,  construction and  enforceability of this
Agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws of the State of Illinois
without regard to its conflict of laws rules.

      .8 Successors and Assigns.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall
inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their  respective  successors and
assigns;  provided,  however, that Buyer may not assign this Agreement or any of
the rights or obligations  arising hereunder,  without the prior written consent
of Seller, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.

      .9 Further  Assurances.  At any time on or after the Closing,  the parties
hereto  shall each  perform  such acts,  execute and deliver  such  instruments,
assignments,  endorsements  and other  documents  and do all such  other  things
consistent  with the terms of this  Agreement as may be reasonably  necessary to
accomplish the transaction contemplated in this Agreement or otherwise carry out
the purposes of this Agreement.

      . 10 Gender,  Number  and  Headings.  The  masculine,  feminine  or neuter
pronouns used herein shall be interpreted  without regard to gender, and the use
of the  singular  or plural  shall be deemed to include the other  whenever  the
context so requires. The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience
of reference only and are not a part of this Agreement.

      .11 Schedules and Exhibits.  The Schedules and Exhibits referred to herein
and attached hereto are  incorporated  herein by such references as if fully set
forth in the text hereof.

      .12  Waiver  of  Provisions.   The  terms,   covenants,   representations,
warranties  and  conditions  of this  Agreement  may be waived only by a written
instrument executed by the party waiving compliance. The failure of any party at
any time to require  performance of any provisions  hereof shall,  in no manner,
affect the right at a later date to enforce the same.  No waiver by any party of
any condition,  or breach of any provision,  term,  covenant,  representation or
warranty  contained in this Agreement,  whether by conduct or otherwise,  in any
one or more  instances,  shall be deemed  to be or  construed  as a  further  or
continuing waiver of any such condition or of the breach of any other provision,
term, covenant, representation or warranty of this Agreement.

      .13  Expenses.  Each party  shall bear its own  expenses  incident to this
Agreement  and  the  transactions   contemplated   hereby,   including   without
limitation, all fees of counsel, accountants and consultants.


<PAGE>


         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be
executed as of the date first written above.

                                   NEWTEL BUFFALO GROVE, INC.
                                   an Illinois limited liability corporation


                                   By:  ________________________________




                                   COMMUNICATE DIRECT, INC.,
                                   an Illinois corporation


                                   By:  ________________________________




<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT A

                                FORM OF SUBLEASE

                                    SUBLEASE


         AGREEMENT OF SUBLEASE made as of November 1, 1996 (hereinafter referred
to as this "Sublease") by and between Communicate Direct, Inc., having an office
at 1425 E. Busch Parkway, Buffalo Grove, Illinois 60089 (hereinafter referred to
as  "Sublessor"),  and Newtel  Buffalo  Grove,  Inc.,  an  Illinois  corporation
(hereinafter referred to as "Sublessee").

                                   WITNESSETH:

         WHEREAS, by that certain lease [undated],  as amended from time to time
(hereinafter  referred  to as the  "Lease"  and  attached  hereto as Exhibit A),
American  National  Bank and Trust  Company of Chicago,  not  personally  but as
trustee  under Trust  Agreement No. 56658 dated  December 30, 1982  (hereinafter
referred  to as the  "Lessor")  leased  to  Sublessor  the  premises  comprising
approximately 24,777 square feet (hereinafter referred to as the "Premises") and
known as 1405-1425 E. Busch Parkway, Buffalo Grove, Illinois; and

         WHEREAS, Sublessor desires to sublease approximately 14,370 square feet
of the Premises as shown on Exhibit B attached  hereto,  which shall include the
non-exclusive use of all common areas within the Premises  (hereinafter referred
to as the "Demised Premises") to Sublessee and Sublessee desires to sublease the
Demised Premises from Sublessor.

         NOW  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the  foregoing  and  the  mutual
covenants hereinafter set forth, the parties hereby agree as follow:



<PAGE>



                  12        Subleasing and Term


                           .1  Upon  the   terms  and   conditions   hereinafter
provided,  Sublessor hereby leases to Sublessee and Sublessee hereby leases from
Sublessor the Demised Premises for a period which shall commence effective as of
the date hereof (hereinafter  referred to as the "Commencement  Date") and shall
end on April 30,  2002,  unless such shall be  terminated  sooner or extended as
provided in this Sublease.

                           .2 Notwithstanding  the above, in the event Sublessor
renews the Lease and  Sublessee  is not in default of this  Sublease,  Sublessee
shall  have the right to renew this  Sublease  provided  that there  shall be an
equitable  adjustment to rent payable  hereunder to reflect any  increased  rent
payable by Sublessor pursuant to the Lease.

                           .3 Sublessee may use and occupy the Demised  Premises
for   general   office   purposes    including   sales   and   installation   of
telecommunications systems, and for no other purpose.




                  13        Fixed Rent

         Sublessee covenants and agrees to pay to Sublessor,  beginning as of on
November 1, 1996 (the "Rent Commencement Date"),  annual fixed rent (hereinafter
referred  to as  "Fixed  Rent") on a  monthly  basis in an  amount  equal to 58%
(Sublessee's  pro rata  share) of  monthly  rent  payable  by  Sublessor  in the
Premises.

         Fixed Rent shall be paid in advance,  promptly on the first day of each
month,  without any set-off,  deduction or abatement  except as specifically set
forth herein.

         If the  Sublessee  takes  full and  actual  possession  of the  Demised
Premises on any day other than the Commencement Date or if this Sublease ends on
any day other  than the last day of a month,  then the Fixed  Rent for the first
month Fixed Rent is due  hereunder or the last month of this  Sublease  shall be
prorated accordingly.

                  14        Additional Rent

                           .1 In addition  to Fixed Rent to be paid  pursuant to
Paragraph 2 hereof,  during the term of this Sublease,  beginning as of November
1, 1996,  Sublessee  shall pay to Sublessor 58% of all other  rentals,  charges,
fees and  expenses  provided  in the  Lease,  including  but not  limited to all
additional rents, taxes, dues, fees, and charges set forth in the Lease due from
Sublessor,  as lessee,  to  Lessor,  in  accordance  with the terms of the Lease
(collectively "Additional Rent").

                           .2  Additional  Rent  shall be paid by  Sublessee  to
Sublessor  at such  time or times  as such  expenses  shall  become  payable  by
Sublessor  to the Lessor  under the Lease.  Any such  Additional  Rent  payments
applicable to the year in which this Sublease  shall end shall be apportioned so
that the  Sublessee  shall pay its  aforesaid  share of only that  amount  which
corresponds  with the  portion  of said  year  which is within  the term  hereby
demised.

                           .3  Bills  for  Additional  Rent  shall  be  sent  to
Sublessee in the same detail as such bills are  received by  Sublessor  from the
Lessor  and shall be  accompanied  by  Lessor's  Statement  in  connection  with
Additional Rent and a computation showing the amounts due from Sublessee.

                           .4  Sublessee  shall be entitled to 58% of any refund
or credit to which  Sublessor is entitled in connection  with any overpayment of
Additional Rent by Sublessor to the Lessor with respect to the Demised  Premises
during  the term  hereof.  In the event of any such  refund  or credit  from the
Lessor to Sublessor,  Sublessor  shall  promptly  notify  Sublessee  thereof and
shall,  based on  Lessor's  treatment  of such  overpayment,  refund  or  credit
Sublessee's share of such refund or credit as applicable.

                           .5 The  obligations  provided for in this Paragraph 3
shall survive the termination or expiration of this Sublease for a period of two
(2) years,  provided,  however,  that  Sublessee's  obligations  with respect to
unpaid  Additional  Rent for which  Sublessee  has received  bills shall survive
until paid and  Sublessor's  obligations  with respect to refunds or credits due
Sublessee  which  Sublessor has received or had a right to receive shall survive
until paid or credited to Sublessee.

                  15        Payments

                           .1 All payments of Fixed Rent,  Additional  Rent, and
other amounts payable by Sublessee to Sublessor  pursuant to this Sublease shall
be made at the office of Sublessor as set forth at the head of this Agreement or
to such other place as may be designated by Sublessor in writing.

                           .2 All costs,  charges and expenses  which  Sublessee
assumes or agrees to pay to Sublessor  pursuant to this Sublease shall be deemed
Additional Rent, and, in the event of non-payment thereof,  Sublessor shall have
all the rights and remedies  herein  provided for in case of non-payment of rent
under the Lease.

                           .3 If  Sublessee  shall  fail to pay any  amount  due
hereunder  within  ten (10)  calendar  days of the  date  such  payment  is due,
Sublessee shall pay interest  thereon at an Interest Rate which shall be 18% per
annum  unless a lesser rate shall then be the maximum  rate  permissible  by law
with respect thereto, in which event such lesser rate shall be charged, from the
date when such installment of payment shall have been due (and not the tenth day
thereafter) to the date of payment thereof.

                  16        Condition of Demised Premises

         Sublessee  acknowledges  that it has inspected the Demised Premises and
is fully  familiar with the physical  conditions  thereof and agrees to take the
same "as is". Sublessee shall make no alterations,  improvements or additions to
the Demised Premises  whatsoever without the consent of Sublessor and the Lessor
in accordance with the terms of the Lease and this Sublease.

                  17        Utility Costs and Janitorial Services

                           .1 Sublessee  shall be responsible for payment of and
shall pay when due,  electricity,  natural gas, air  conditioning,  telephone or
other  communication  service(s)  and all other utility  services and janitorial
services in connection with the Demised  Premises as shall be billed directly to
Sublessee by such utility or communication  companies,  or, if such services are
not billed  directly to Sublessee,  Sublessee shall pay to Sublessor 58% of such
costs.

                  18        Lessor's Services

         If the Lessor fails to fulfill its obligations  under Lease,  Sublessor
agrees that it will cooperate with Sublessee to enable Sublessee to enforce such
obligations,  but Sublessee shall pay and indemnify and hold Sublessor  harmless
against  any  liability  for all costs and  expenses in the  prosecution  of any
proceedings  or actions so taken by Sublessee  except to the extent  caused by a
default of Sublessor under the Lease or this Sublease.


                  19        Covenants and Representations of Sublessor

                           .1  Sublessor  covenants  and agrees that it will not
enter into any  modification of the Lease or any other agreement with respect to
the Lease  which  would  adversely  affect the use by  Sublessee  of the Demised
Premises  or increase  the  obligations  of  Sublessee  or  diminish  its rights
hereunder.

                           .2 To  Sublessor's  knowledge,  there are no defaults
existing  under  the  Lease by the  Lessor  or  Sublessor  and no  circumstances
currently exist which would constitute a default, and there is no existing basis
for  Sublessor or Lessor to cancel the Lease or to exercise  any other  remedies
available to it by virtue of a default by Lessor or Sublessor respectively.

                  20        Incorporation of Lease

                           .1 Sublessor  certifies that a true and complete copy
of the Lease is  attached  hereto as Exhibit A.  Further,  as of the date hereof
there have been no amendments to the Lease.

                           .2 This  Sublease is subject and  subordinate  to the
terms and  conditions  of the  Lease  and any  mortgages  as  provided  therein.
Sublessee at its sole cost and expense  shall at all times fully comply with all
of the covenants,  terms,  conditions and agreements of the Lease  applicable to
Sublessee  as if the Lease is a direct  lease  between  Sublessee  as tenant and
Lessor  as  landlord.  Sublessee  shall  not do or  allow  to be done any act or
omission,  on its  part  or on the  part  of  any  of its  officers,  directors,
customers, invitees, agents, servants, employees,  contractors or third parties,
which  would  adversely  affect  Sublessor's  rights,  privileges,   powers  and
immunities under the Lease or which would be contrary to the requirements of the
Lease. In the event the obligations and  restrictions  imposed upon Sublessee in
this  Sublease  conflict  with the  obligations  and  restrictions  imposed upon
Sublessor,  as  lessee  under  the  Lease,  then  the  more  burdensome  of such
restrictions and obligations shall be binding upon Sublessee.

                           .3 The time limits  provided for in the provisions of
the Lease for the  giving of  notice,  making  demands,  performance  of any act
condition  or  covenant,  or the  exercise of any right,  remedy or option,  are
changed for the  purposes  of this  Sublease as  specifically  stated  elsewhere
herein,  or if not so stated,  by  lengthening  for Sublessor or shortening  for
Sublessee,  as the case may be, such limits by (i) five (5) days with respect to
all such periods of less than twenty (20) days but more than three (3) days, and
(ii) as much notice as  reasonable  practicable  with  respect to all periods of
less than three (3) days,  so that notices may be given,  demands  made,  or any
act, condition or covenant  performed,  or any right, remedy or option hereunder
exercised by Sublessor or  Sublessee,  as the case may be, within the time limit
relating thereto contained in the Lease.

                           .4 With respect to any such  actions  that  Sublessee
desires  to take for which the Lease  requires  the  approval  or consent of the
Lessor,  Sublessee  shall  request such  approval or consent from the Lessor and
Sublessor.  Notwithstanding Sublessor's consent Sublessee shall not be permitted
to take such  action for which the  approval  or consent of Lessor is  necessary
without Lessor's express written approval or consent.

                           .5 No representations or warranties made in the Lease
by Lessor to Sublessor shall be  incorporated  into this Sublease as having been
made by Sublessor to Sublessee.

                           .6 In the event that  Sublessee  shall default in the
full performance of any of the terms,  covenants or conditions on its part to be
performed  under this Sublease,  then  Sublessor  shall have the same rights and
remedies with respect to such default as are given to the Lessor under the Lease
with respect to defaults by Sublessor  under the Lease,  all with the same force
and effect as though the provision of the Lease with respect to defaults and the
rights and remedies of the Lessor under the Lease in the event  thereof were set
forth at length in this Sublease.

                  21        Assignment and Subletting

         Sublessee  shall  not  assign  or  sub-sublet  any part of the  Demised
Premises  without the prior written  consent of Sublessor,  which consent may be
withheld at Sublessor's reasonable discretion.

                  22        Subordination of Sublease

         Except for as otherwise  expressly  provided  herein,  this Sublease is
subject and  subordinate to the Lease,  and the Sublessee  shall have no greater
rights in and to the Demised  Premises  than  Sublessor  has as Lessee under the
Lease.

                  23        Broker

         Sublessee and Sublessor  each  represents to the other that it knows of
no claim, or basis for any claim,  against  Sublessor for broker's  commissions,
finder's  fees  or  other  compensation  due  and  arising  by  reason  of  this
transaction.  Sublessee shall indemnify and hold Sublessor  harmless against any
claim for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or other compensation arising out
of any  negotiations  had by  Sublessee  with any other  broker  or finder  with
respect to the subletting of the Demised  Premises.  Sub-lessor  shall indemnify
and hold  Sublessee  harmless  against  any claims for a  brokerage  commission,
finder's  fee or  other  compensation  arising  out of any  negotiations  had by
Sublessor  with any other  broker or finder with  respect to the  subletting  or
renewal of the Demised Premises.

                  24        Signage

         Sublessee  shall be  entitled  to take over such  signage  space at the
Premises as is presently  used by  Sublessor.  Sublessee  acknowledges  that its
signage is subject to Lessor's approval.

                  25        Parking Spaces

         Sublessee shall be entitled to such number of parking spaces  presently
reserved  to  Sublessor  under  the  Lease as shall  equal  the  ratio  that the
aggregate rent  Sublessee pays to Sublessor  bears to the aggregate rent paid by
Sublessor to Lessor pursuant to the Lease.

                  26        Notices

         All notices under the Sublease shall be in writing and shall be made by
certified  mail,  return-receipt  requested,  or  delivered  personally  to  the
addresses  specified  below or to such other address as either party may specify
in writing to the other party.

To Sublessor:              Communicate Direct, Inc.
                                    717 Forest Avenue
                                    Lake Forest, Illinois  60045
                                    Attn:  Martin A. Koehler

with a copy to:            McDermott, Will & Emery
                                    227 West Monroe Street
                                    Chicago, Illinois 60606
                                    Attn:  H. George Mann, Esq.

To Sublessee:              Newtel Buffalo Grove, Inc.
                                    1425 North Busch Parkway
                                    Buffalo Grove, Illinois 60089
                                    Attn:  John Jellinek

With a copy to:            Rudnick & Wolfe
                                    203 North LaSalle Street
                                    Suite 1800
                                    Chicago, Illinois  60601
                                    Attn:  Paul D. Rudnick, Esq.

                  27        Entire Agreement

         This Sublease  contains the entire  agreement  between the parties with
respect to the matters covered hereby and any executory agreement hereafter made
shall be ineffective to change,  modify or discharge this Sublease,  in whole or
in part,  unless such executory  agreement is in writing and signed by the party
against whom enforcement of the change, modification or discharge is sought.

                  28        Consent of Lessor

         This  Sublease  shall take  effect  only when the Lessor  executes  and
deliver  that certain  Consent to Sublease  through  which  Lessor  specifically
consents to the terms and conditions of this Sublease.

                  29        Execution in Counterpart

         This  Sublease may be executed in any number of  counterparts,  each of
which when so  executed  and  delivered  shall be deemed an  original,  but such
counterparts together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.



<PAGE>



         IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have caused this Sublease to be
executed as of the day first above written.


                                                     For the Sublessor:
                                                     Communicate Direct, Inc.

                                                     By:
                                      Its:

                                                     For the Sublessee:
                                                     Newtel Buffalo Grove, Inc.

                                                     By:
                                      Its:

         SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.,  a New  York  corporation  ("Guarantor"),  the
guarantor of the Lease described herein under that certain "Corporate  Guaranty"
by Guarantor  dated February 23, 1995 (the  "Guaranty"),  hereby consents to the
execution and delivery by Sublessor and Sublessee of this Sublease, and Lessor's
consent thereto.  Guarantor acknowledges,  ratifies and confirms its liabilities
and  obligations  with  respect to the Lease  under the  Guaranty as of the date
hereof.

                                                     SoftNet Systems, Inc.

                                                     By:
                                      Its:

         The undersigned, as Lessor, hereby consents to this Sublease, provided,
however, that:

        1. This consent to the Sublease  shall in no way release  Sublessor from
any of its covenants, agreements, liabilities and duties under the Lease and any
amendments  thereto. 

        2. This consent to Sublease  does not  constitute  approval by Lessor of
the terms of the Sublease.  

        3. Nothing herein  contained shall be deemed a waiver of any of Lessor's
rights  under the Lease.  

        4. This  consent  to  Sublease  shall be deemed  limited  solely to this
Sublease,  and Lessor reserves the right to consent to any further or additional
subleases and to consent to any assignments of the Lease or Sublease.

                                    American National Bank and Trust
                                    Company of Chicago, not personally
                                    but solely as Trustee under Trust
                                    Agreement No. 56658 dated December 30, 1982.


                                    By:
                                    Its:


<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT A

                                    THE LEASE



<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT B

                                DEMISED PREMISES



<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT B

                            FORM OF SUBLEASE GUARANTY

                                SUBLEASE GUARANTY


         For value received,  and in order to induce  Communicate  Direct,  Inc.
("CDI")  to  enter  into  an  asset  purchase  agreement  (the  "Asset  Purchase
Agreement")  with Newtel  Buffalo  Grove,  Inc.  ("Newtel")  and to enter into a
Sublease  (the  "Sublease")  with  Newtel  dated as of  November  1, 1996  which
Sublease was executed in connection with the  consummation  of the  transactions
contemplated by the Asset Purchase Agreement,  the undersigned  hereby,  jointly
and severally,  guarantee absolutely and unconditionally the prompt payment when
due, whether at maturity, by declaration, by demand or otherwise, and at any and
all times  thereafter,  of all indebtedness of Newtel to CDI, its successors and
assigns,  pursuant to the Sublease,  not  withstanding  any assignment by Newtel
thereof,  up to a  maximum  guaranteed  amount  of  $400,000,  and all  expenses
(including without limitation attorneys' fees and legal costs and expenses) paid
or incurred  by CDI in  endeavoring  to collect  such  indebtedness  or any part
thereof and in enforcing this Guaranty (collectively, the "Indebtedness").

         This  Guaranty is an absolute,  unconditional,  irrevocable,  unlimited
guarantee of payment,  irrespective of any  circumstances  which might otherwise
constitute a legal or  equitable  discharge  or defense of any  guarantor.  Each
guarantor  shall,  immediately  upon demand of CDI,  render full  payment of the
Indebtedness then due as guaranteed hereunder.

         Each guarantor  hereunder  waives notice of acceptance of this Guaranty
and consents that,  without  notice to or further  assent by any guarantor,  the
Indebtedness hereby guaranteed may be renewed, extended, modified,  accelerated,
prematured,  released,  settled  or  compromised  by CDI  as  CDI  in  its  sole
discretion may deem advisable.  Each guarantor  waives  presentment for payment,
demand, protest and notice of dishonor.

         No guarantor's  obligations hereunder shall be released,  discharged or
otherwise  affected by any claim,  set-off or other rights which such  guarantor
may have against  Newtel or CDI. No payments by any  guarantor  hereunder  shall
entitle such guarantor, by subrogation or otherwise, to the rights of CDI to any
payment by Newtel.

         If at any  time  all or any part of any  payment  received  by CDI with
respect to the Indebtedness  guaranteed hereby is rescinded or must be otherwise
restored  or  returned  to  Newtel  for any  reason  whatsoever  (including  the
insolvency,  bankruptcy or reorganization of Newtel or any guarantor), then each
guarantor's obligations hereunder shall, to the extent of such payment rescinded
or returned,  be deemed to have  continued in  existence,  notwithstanding  such
previous receipt by CDI and each guarantor's  obligations hereunder with respect
to such payment shall  continue to be effective or  reinstated,  as the case may
be, at such time, all as though such previous payment to CDI had not been made.

         CDI shall not be required to proceed  against Newtel or to resort first
to any  other  remedy to  enforce  payment  or  collection  of the  Indebtedness
guaranteed  hereby.  CDI  may  pursue  any or all of its  remedies  at one or at
different  times.  No failure or delay by CDI in exercising any right,  power or
privilege  hereunder  shall operate as a waiver  thereof nor shall any single or
partial  exercise  thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the
exercise  of any  other  right,  power or  privilege.  The  obligations  of each
guarantor  and all of the rights and  remedies of CDI herein  provided  shall be
cumulative  and not  exclusive  of any  rights or  remedies  provided  by law or
otherwise.  No consent or waiver,  express or  implied,  by CDI to any breach or
default by a guarantor in the performance of its obligations  hereunder shall be
deemed or construed to be a consent to or a waiver of any other  obligations  of
such of any other guarantor hereunder.

         Suit may be brought against the guarantors,  jointly or severally,  and
against any one or more of them, without impairing the rights of CDI against any
other  guarantor;  and CDI may settle with any  guarantor for such sum as it may
see fit and release any  guarantor  from all further  liability  to CDI for such
Indebtedness  without  impairing  the right of CDI to  demand  and  collect  the
balance of such Indebtedness from any other guarantor not so released.

         The  provisions of this guaranty  shall be binding upon each  guarantor
and his heirs, successors and assigns,  provided that a guarantor may not assign
or otherwise  transfer  any of its rights or  obligations  under this  Guaranty,
except the written consent of CDI.

         This Guaranty shall accrue to the benefit of the transferee or assignee
of the Sublease.  This Guaranty shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with the substantive  laws of the State of Illinois,  and each guarantor  hereby
consents to the  jurisdiction of Illinois courts of all matters relating to this
Guaranty.

         IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned  have caused this Guaranty to be
executed as of the 1st day of November, 1996.


                                -----------------------------
                                John Jellinek


                                -----------------------------
                                Phil Kenny


                                -----------------------------
                                Daniel Lee


                                -----------------------------
                                Michael Fainman


<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT C

                              FORM OF PAYMENT NOTE

                                 PROMISSORY NOTE



$209,579                                                        December 9, 1996


                  FOR VALUE  RECEIVED,  the  undersigned,  Newtel Buffalo Grove,
Inc., an Illinois corporation  ("Newtel") promises to pay to Communicate Direct,
Inc., an Illinois  corporation ("CDI") or any other holder hereof, the principal
sum of Two Hundred Nine Thousand Five Hundred  Seventy-Nine  Dollars ($209,579).
Interest  shall accrue on the unpaid  principal at an annual rate of ___%,  from
and after November 1, 1996.  Payment of accrued interest on the unpaid principal
shall be made quarterly on December 31, 1996 and March 31, 1997, and thereafter,
payments of the principal and accrued  interest shall be made in equal quarterly
installments of  _____________________  ($________) on the last day of June, and
September,  December  and March each year,  beginning  June 30,  1997 and ending
September 30, 2000.

                  Newtel  may  prepay  all or any  portion  of the  amounts  due
pursuant to this Note without  penalty or premium.  All amounts due and owing to
CDI or any other holder hereof  pursuant to this Note shall be deemed fully paid
and satisfied  if, on or prior to May 8, 1998,  Newtel pays to the holder hereof
an  amount  equal  to (x)  ninety-six  percent  (96%)  of the  unpaid  principal
hereunder on the date of such repayment plus (y) all accrued and unpaid interest
on the full amount of the unpaid principal through such repayment date.

                  Payments of  principal  and  interest are to be made in lawful
money of the  United  States of  America  in same day or  immediately  available
funds.

                  The  occurrence  of any of the  following  shall  constitute a
default by Newtel (each an "Event of Default"): (i) the failure of Newtel to pay
any  principal or interest of this Note when due;  (ii) the failure of Newtel to
perform or observe any of the covenants  contained in the Agreement for Purchase
and Sale of Certain  Assets of Communicate  Direct,  Inc. dated December 9, 1996
between CDI and Newtel (the  "Agreement"),  (iii) any representation or warranty
made by Newtel in the Agreement shall be incorrect in any material  respect when
made or as of the date hereof;  (iv) the failure of Newtel to generally  pay its
debts as they  mature;  and (v) the  commencement  by or  against  Newtel of any
bankruptcy,  insolvency,  arrangement,  reorganization,  receivership or similar
proceedings  under any federal or state law,  provided  that in the event of any
such  involuntary  proceeding  commenced  against Newtel such  proceeding is not
dismissed or discharged within thirty (30) days after commencement thereof.

                  Upon the  occurrence  of any Event of  Default,  the holder of
this Note may declare the principal balance hereof immediately due and payable.

                  Newtel  agrees  to  pay  all  expenses,  including  reasonable
attorneys'  fees and  legal  expenses,  incurred  by the  holder of this Note in
endeavoring  to collect any amounts  payable  hereunder  which are not paid when
due, whether by acceleration or otherwise.

                  All  parties  hereto,   whether  as  makers,   endorsers,   or
otherwise,  severally waive presentment for payment,  demand, protest and notice
of dishonor.

                  THIS NOTE HAS BEEN DELIVERED IN CHICAGO, ILLINOIS AND SHALL BE
DEEMED TO BE A CONTRACT  MADE UNDER AND  GOVERNED  BY THE  INTERNAL  LAWS OF THE
STATE OF ILLINOIS.


                                                     NEWTEL BUFFALO GROVE, INC.


                                                     By:
                                      Name:
                                     Title:







<PAGE>


                                    EXHIBIT D

                          FORM OF PAYMENT NOTE GUARANTY

                            PROMISSORY NOTE GUARANTY


         For value received,  and in order to induce  Communicate  Direct,  Inc.
("CDI")  to  enter  into  an  asset  purchase  agreement  (the  "Asset  Purchase
Agreement")  with  Newtel  Buffalo  Grove,  Inc.  ("Newtel")  and to accept  the
Promissory  Note (the  "Note") of Newtel  dated  December 9, 1996 which Note was
issued in connection with the consummation of the  transactions  contemplated by
the Asset Purchase Agreement,  the undersigned hereby guarantees  absolutely and
unconditionally   the  prompt  payment  when  due,   whether  at  maturity,   by
declaration, by demand or otherwise, and at any and all times thereafter, of (x)
up to a maximum of  twenty-five  percent (25%) of all  indebtedness  to CDI, its
successors and assigns,  pursuant to the Note,  notwithstanding  any transfer by
Newtel of the Note, and all expenses  (including without  limitation  attorneys'
fees and legal costs and  expenses)  paid or incurred by CDI or any other holder
of the Note in endeavoring to collect such indebtedness or any part thereof from
Newtel and (y) all expenses  (including without  limitation  attorneys' fees and
legal costs and  expenses)  paid or  incurred by CDI or any other  holder of the
Note in enforcing this Guaranty (collectively, the "Indebtedness").

         This  Guaranty is an absolute,  unconditional,  irrevocable,  unlimited
guarantee of payment,  irrespective of any  circumstances  which might otherwise
constitute  a legal or  equitable  discharge  or defense of any  guarantor.  The
undersigned  shall,  immediately  upon demand of the holder of the Note,  render
payment of the Indebtedness then due as guaranteed hereunder.

         The undersigned  hereunder waives notice of acceptance of this Guaranty
and consents that,  without notice to or further assent by the undersigned,  the
Indebtedness hereby guaranteed may be renewed, extended, modified,  accelerated,
prematured,  released,  settled or compromised by CDI or any other holder of the
Note as CDI or such  holder  in its  sole  discretion  may deem  advisable.  The
undersigned  waives  presentment  for  payment,  demand,  protest  and notice of
dishonor.

         The  undersigned's   obligations   hereunder  shall  not  be  released,
discharged or otherwise affected by any claim,  set-off or other rights which he
may have against Newtel, CDI or any other holder of the Note. No payments by the
undersigned  hereunder  shall entitle him, by subrogation  or otherwise,  to the
rights of CDI or any other holder of the Note, to any payment by Newtel.

         If at any time all or any part of any  payment  received  by CDI or any
other holder of the Note with respect to the Indebtedness  guaranteed  hereby is
rescinded  or must be  otherwise  restored  or returned to Newtel for any reason
whatsoever (including the insolvency,  bankruptcy or reorganization of Newtel or
the  undersigned),  then the undersigned's  obligations  hereunder shall, to the
extent of such payment  rescinded or  returned,  be deemed to have  continued in
existence,  notwithstanding such previous receipt by CDI or such other holder of
the Note,  and the  undersigned's  obligations  hereunder  with  respect to such
payment  shall  continue to be effective or  reinstated,  as the case may be, at
such time,  all as though  such  previous  payment to CDI or such holder had not
been made.

         Neither  CDI nor any other  holder  of the Note  shall be  required  to
proceed against Newtel or to resort first to any other remedy to enforce payment
or  collection of the  Indebtedness  guaranteed  hereby.  CDI or such holder may
pursue any or all of its  remedies at one or at different  times.  No failure or
delay  by CDI or such  holder  in  exercising  any  right,  power  or  privilege
hereunder  shall  operate  as a waiver  thereof  nor shall any single or partial
exercise  thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise
of any other right,  power or privilege.  The obligations of the undersigned and
all of the rights and  remedies  of CDI and any other  holder of the Note herein
provided  shall be  cumulative  and not  exclusive  of any  rights  or  remedies
provided by law or otherwise.  No consent or waiver,  express or implied, by CDI
or such  other  holder  to any  breach  or  default  by the  undersigned  in the
performance of his  obligations  hereunder  shall be deemed or construed to be a
consent to or a waiver of any other obligations of such hereunder.

         Suit may be brought against the  undersigned  and/or against any one or
more of the other  guarantors  of amounts  owing  pursuant to the Note,  without
impairing  the  rights of CDI or any  other  holder  of the  Note,  against  the
undersigned  or any other  guarantor;  and CDI or such other holder,  may settle
with the undersigned or any guarantor for such sum as it may see fit and release
the  undersigned  or any  guarantor  from all further  liability  to CDI or such
holder for such  Indebtedness  without impairing the right of CDI or such holder
to demand and collect the  Indebtedness  from the undersigned or the appropriate
guaranteed amounts from any other guarantor not so released.

         The provisions of this guaranty  shall be binding upon the  undersigned
and his heirs,  successors and assigns,  provided that the  undersigned  may not
assign or  otherwise  transfer  any of his  rights  or  obligations  under  this
Guaranty,  except  upon the  written  consent of CDI or any other  holder of the
Note.

         This Guaranty shall accrue to the benefit of the  transferee,  assignee
or holder of the Note.  This  Guaranty  shall be  governed by and  construed  in
accordance  with  the  substantive  laws  of the  State  of  Illinois,  and  the
undersigned  hereby  consents  to the  jurisdiction  of  Illinois  courts of all
matters relating to this Guaranty.

         IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  undersigned  has caused this  Guaranty to be
executed as of this 9th day of December, 1996.


                                                   -----------------------------


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENT TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
<TEXT>


                            CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT
                      OF THE CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                             SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.
               UNDER SECTION 805 OF THE BUSINESS CORPORATION LAW

                                      ****

WE THE UNDERSIGNED,  John I. Jellinek and Eleanor Ault,  being  respectively the
President and the Assistant Secretary of SoftNet Systems, Inc. hereby certify:

        Article 1. The name of the  corporation  is SoftNet  Systems,  Inc. (the
"Corporation"), originally known as Tensor Electric Development Co., Inc.

        Article 2. The certificate of incorporation of the Corporation was filed
by the Department of State on the 12th day of December, 1956.

        Article 3.

                         (a) The  certificate  of  incorporation  is  amended to
                         increase  the  number  of  authorized  shares of common
                         stock of the Corporation.

                         (b) To effect the foregoing  Article Third (a) relating
                         to the Corporation's common stock, Article Third of the
                         Certificate  of  Incorporation  of the  Corporation  is
                         hereby  amended by changing the first  sentence to read
                         as follows:

                         THIRD:   The  aggregate  number  of  shares  which  the
                         Corporation shall have the authority to issue is Twenty
                         Nine Million  (29,000,000) shares, of which Twenty Five
                         Million  (25,000,000)  shall be common stock, par value
                         $0.01  per  share and Four  Million  (4,000,000)  share
                         shall be Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share.


        Article 4. The  foregoing  amendment  was  authorized  by an vote of the
Board  of  Directors  followed  by a vote  of in  excess  of  two-thirds  of all
outstanding  shares  entitled  to  vote  on  amendments  to the  Certificate  of
Incorporation at a meeting of the shareholders.

IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  we have signed this  certificate on the 25th day of March,
1996 and we affirm the statements  contained  therein as true under penalties of
perjury.

                              _________________________________
                              John I. Jellinek, President



                              _________________________________
                              Eleanor Ault, Assistant Secretary

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>SIZEMORE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
<TEXT>


                             



                              EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT


THIS  EMPLOYMENT  AGREEMENT  (the  "Agreement"),  dated this ___ day of October,
1996,  by and  between  SOFTNET  SYSTEMS,  INC.,  a New  York  corporation  (the
"Company"), whose principal place of business is 717 Forest Avenue, Lake Forest,
IL 60045,  Kansas  Communications,  Inc., a Kansas  corporation  ("KCI"),  whose
principal place of business is 8206 Marshall Drive,  Lenexa,  KS 66214, ant DALE
H.  SIZEMORE,  JR.,  residing at 2705 W. 121st Terrace,  Leawood,  KS 66209 (the
"Employee").


                                   WITNESSETH:

WHEREAS, the Company,  through its subsidiary,  Kansas  Communications,  Inc. is
engaged in the business of providing telecommunications services, and

WHEREAS,  the Employee is familiar with the  administration  and management of a
telecommunications business; and

WHEREAS,  the parties acknowledge that the Employee's abilities and services are
unique and essential to the prospects of KCI, and

WHEREAS,  Employee and Company are currently parties to that certain  Consulting
Agreement dated June 30, 1996 (the  "Consulting  Agreement"),  which  Consulting
Agreement the parties hereto now desire to terminate; and

WHEREAS,  the  Employee  and the  Company  are  desirous  of  entering  into  an
agreement providing for the employment by the Company and KCI of the Employee in
the position and upon the terms provided herein.

NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

1.  Recitals  and  Release.   -  The  recitals  to  this  Agreement  are  hereby
incorporated  herein as part of this Agreement,  and immediately  upon execution
hereof, the parties acknowledge and agree that the Consulting Agreement referred
to above shall be deemed terminated, and of no former force or effect except for
amounts which may be due Employee that have accrued as of the termination  date.
The parties further mutely agree to forever release and hold each other harmless
from any claim, cause of action or over liabilities, known or unknown, which may
have arisen pursuant to the Consulting Agreement.

2. Employment  Duties and Term. - The Company and KCI hereby employ the Employee
and the  Employee  hereby  accepts  employment  upon the  terms  and  conditions
hereinafter set forth.



<PAGE>



(a) The Company  agrees to employ the  Employee in the  position of President of
Kansas  Communications  Inc. and  Employee  agrees to perform such duties (to be
defined by the  President  of SoftNet) and tasks as the Company may from time to
time reasonably request, during the period from October 15, 1996 through October
14, 1997 (the "Employment Period").

(b) The Employee  hereby  accepts such  employment and agrees to devote his full
time and attention to such duties,  except during usual vacation periods and for
personal and sick leave in accordance with the Company's and KCI's policies. The
Company  agrees that  Employee  will perform his duties  hereunder  primarily in
Lenexa, Kansas, and that Employee will not be required to relocate his residence
during  the term of the  Employment  Agreement.  Employee,  however,  agrees  to
periodically  travel to the Company's  headquarters  or such other  locations as
reasonably required by the Company to perform his duties hereunder.

3  Compensation.  - During the  Employment  Period the Company  shall pay to the
Employee  compensation  equal to an Annual base  salary  (the "Base  Salary") of
$150,000, payable in semi-monthly installments.  The Company shall reimburse the
Employee for all expenses necessarily and reasonably incurred by the Employee in
connection with the business of KCI, against  presentation of proper receipts or
other  proof of  expenditure,  and  subject  to such  reasonable  guidelines  or
limitations provided to the Employee,  and which are to be applied prospectively
only as the Board of  Directors  of the  Company may impose.  The  Employee  may
receive  such  greater  compensation,  including  incentive  bonuses  and  stock
bonuses, as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors of the
Company.

4. Benefits.  - During the Employment  Period, the Employee shall be entitled to
participate  in any profit  sharing  plan,  bonus  plan,  stock  option or other
benefit plan, retirement plan, group life insurance plan or other insurance plan
or medical  expense  plan  maintained  by the Company for its senior  executives
generally.

5. Termination.  - The Employee's  employment hereunder shall terminate upon the
earlier of (a) the  expiration of the  Employment  Period,  (b) the death of the
employee, (c) the expiration of a continuous period of 120 days during which the
Employee  is unable to perform  his  assigned  duties due to  physical or mental
incapacity,  (d)  termination  by the Company  due to a material  breach of this
Agreement  by the  Employee,  or for  Just  Cause  (as  defined  below),  or (e)
termination  by the Employee due to a material  breach of this  Agreement by the
Company.  The  exercise of the right of the Company or the Employee to terminate
this Agreement  pursuant to clause (d) or (e) hereof,  as the case may be, shall
not abrogate the rights and remedies of the terminating  party in respect of the
breach giving rise to such termination. The Company shall only be deemed to have
materially breached this Agreement and the terms of the Employee's employment if
it fails to comply with  Sections 1, 2, 3, or 4 in all  material  respects.  The
Employee  shall only be deemed to have  materially  breached the Agreement if he
fails to comply



<PAGE>


with Sections 1, 5 or 6 in all material respects. For purposes of this Agreement
"Just Cause" shall be limited to one of The following grounds:

(i) The  Employee's  failure or refusal,  after notice  thereof and a reasonable
opportunity  to cure, to perform  specific  directives of the Board of Directors
which are  consistent  with the scope and  nature of the  Employee's  duties and
responsibilities as said forth herein; or

(ii) Dishonesty of the Employee directly or indirectly and materially  affecting
the Company; or

(iii) Habitual  drunkenness or use of drugs (unless medically  prescribed) which
interferes  with  the  performance  of the  Employee's  obligations  under  this
Agreement; or

(iv) The  Employee's  conviction  of a felony  or of any crime  involving  moral
turpitude, fraud, or misrepresentation; or

(v) Any gross or willful  misconduct  of the  Employee  resulting in loss to the
Company  or KCI,  damage  to the  Company's  or  KCI's  reputation  or  theft or
defalcation from The Company or KCI;

(vi) Any  intentional  act  having  the  propose  and  effect  or  injuring  the
reputation, business or business relationships of the Company or KCI, or

(vii) Gross  incompetence  on the part of the Employee in the performance of the
duties undertaken by the Employee under the terms of this Agreement.

In the event of any dispute regarding the existence of the Employee's incapacity
hereunder,  the matter will be resolved  by the  determination  of a majority of
three physicians qualified to practice medicine in Kansas, one to be selected by
each of the Employee and the Board of Directors  and the third to be selected by
the two  designated  physicians.  For this purpose,  the Employee will submit to
appropriate  medical  examinations.  In the event that the Company determines to
relieve the  Employee of his duties for any reason  other than as stated  above,
then the Company shall  continue to pay the Employee his Base Salary which would
otherwise be payable  hereunder  and shall  reimburse  Employee for the costs of
COBRA coverage, for the remaining Employment Period.


<PAGE>



6. Covenant Not to Compete: Confidential Information.
(a) The  Employee  shall at all times hold in strictest  confidence  any and all
confidential  information  that may have come and may come  into the  Employee's
possession  or the  Employee's  knowledge  concerning  the  products,  services,
processes,  businesses,  suppliers, customers and clients of the Company or KCI.
For  purposes  of this  Section,  confidential  information  shall  not  include
information  known to  Employee  from  sources  other than the Company or KCI or
generally  available to the public other than as a result of Employee's improper
disclosure  thereof.  The  Employee  agrees  that  neither  he nor any person or
enterprise  controlled  by  the  Employee  will  for  any  reason,  directly  or
indirectly,  for himself or any other person or enterprise,  use or disclose any
trade secrets, proprietary information, inventions, manufacturing and industrial
processes and procedures,  confidential information,  patents, trademarks, trade
names,  customer lists, service marks, service names,  copyrights,  applications
therefor,   and  license  or  over  rights  in  respect  thereof  ("Confidential
Materials"),  owned or used by, or  licensed  to,  the  Company or KCI or any of
their affiliates or otherwise relating to the Company's or KCI's businesses.

(b) The  Employee  agrees  that from the date  hereof and  continuing  until the
Employee's  employment with the Company and KCI has terminated (the "Non-Compete
Period"),  neither the Employee nor any person or  enterprise  controlled by the
Employee will solicit for employment  any person  employed by the Company or KCI
at any time within one (1) rear prior to the time of the act of solicitation.

(c) The Employee agrees that during the Non-Compete  Period neither the Employee
nor  any  person  or  enterprise  controlled  by  the  Employee  will  become  a
stockholder,  director, officer, agent or employee of a corporation or member of
a partnership,  engage as a sole proprietor in any business, act as a consultant
to or  have  any  financial  stake  of any  nature  in any of the  foregoing  or
otherwise  engage  directly or indirectly in any enterprise  which competes with
KCI's business operations or in any over business in which KCI is engaged on the
date hereof or in which KCI is engaged as of the  termination  of the Employment
Period,  in any area within 100 miles of any office of KCI;  provided,  however.
that the  foregoing  shall not  prohibit the  ownership of capital  stock of the
Company or less than two percent (2%) of the outstanding  shares of the stock of
any corporation engaged in any business,  which shares are regularly traded on a
national  securities exchange or in any  over-the-counter  market, and shall not
apply to  Employee's  involvement  with  VITEC,  Inc.  so long as VITEC  remains
primarily engaged in voice mail and related telephony applications.

(d) The  Employee  agrees that the  restrictive  covenants  in  subsections  (a)
through (c) above are reasonable in their scope and duration and may be enforced
by specific performance or otherwise.  The Employee shall not raise any issue of
reasonableness  as a defense in any proceeding to enforce any of such covenants.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event


<PAGE>



that a covenant  included in this  Agreement  shall be deemed by any court to be
unreasonably  broad in any  respect  it shall  be  modified  in order to make it
reasonable and shall be enforced  accordingly;  provided,  however,  that in the
event that a court shall  refuse to enforce any of the  covenants  contained  in
subsections  (a) through (c) above,  then the  unenforceable  covenant  shall be
deemed eliminated from the provisions of this Agreement for the purpose of those
proceedings  to the extent  necessary  to permit the  remaining  covenants to be
enforced so that the  validity,  legality  or  enforceability  of the  remaining
provisions of this Agent shall not be affected thereby.

7.  Inventions.  - The Employee  hereby assigns to the Company his entire right,
title and interest in all discoveries and improvements, patentable or otherwise,
trade  secrets and ideas,  writings  and  copyrightable  material,  which may be
conceived  by the  Employee or  developed  or acquired by him during the term of
this  Agreement,  which may pertain  directly or  indirectly to the Company's or
KCI's  business.  The Employee  agrees to promptly and fully disclose in writing
all such developments.  The Employee shall, upon the Company's request, execute,
acknowledge  and deliver to the Company  all  instruments  and do all other acts
which are  necessary or  desirable  to enable the Company to file and  prosecute
applications  for,  and to acquire,  maintain  and enforce all letters  patents,
trademark registrations, or copyrights in all countries.

8.  Remedies.  - The  Employee  acknowledges  that any  material  breach of this
Agreement will cause  irreparable harm to the Company and KCI,  difficult if not
impossible  to  ascertain  and that the  Company  or KCI  shall be  entitled  to
equitable relief, including injunction,  against any actual or threatened breach
hereof,  Without  bond and  without  liability  should  such  relief be  denied,
modified or vacant. Neither the right to obtain such relief nor the obtaining of
such relief  shall be exclusive of or preclude the Company or KCI from any other
remedy.  In addition,  the parties agree that in the event either party is found
by a court of law or  equity  to have  breached  this  Agreement  and  relief is
granted,  the breaching  party shall be liable to the  prevailing  party for all
attorneys' fees, expert witness fees and other costs incurred by such prevailing
party in such proceeding.

9. Insurance. - The Company may, at its election and for its benefit, insure the
Employee  against  disability,  accidental  loss or death (in an  amount  not to
exceed  $1,000,000  without  Employees  written  consent) and the Employee shall
submit to such  physical  examination  and  supply  such  information  as may be
required in connection therewith.

10.  Assignment.  - The rights and  benefits of the Employee  hereunder  are not
assignable  whether by voluntary or  involuntary  assignment  or transfer.  This
Agreement  shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the  successors  of
the  Company  and KCI and  shall be  assignable  by the  Company  to any  entity
acquiring substantially all of the assets of the Company.


<PAGE>



11. Notices - Any notice  required or permitted to be given under this Agreement
shall be  sufficient  if in writing and sent by  registered  mail,  or overnight
courier  service to the Employee at his  residence  set forth  above,  or to the
Company c/o SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.,  717 Forest Avenue,  Lake Forest,  Illinois
60045, Attention: President.

12.  Waiver of Breach.  - A waiver by the  Company or KCI or the  Employee  of a
breach of any  provision of this  Agreement by the other party shall not operate
or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by the other party.

13. Entire  Agreement.  - This instrument  contains the entire  agreement of the
parties.  It may be changed only by an  agreement  in writing  signed by a party
against  whom  enforcement  of any waiver,  change,  modification,  extension or
discharge is sought.

14.  Applicable  Law. - This  Agreement  shall be governed by and  construed  in
accordance with the internal substantive laws of the State of Illinois,  and the
parties  hereby  irrevocably  and  unconditionally  consent and submit to the in
personam  jurisdiction  of Illinois  courts  over all  matters  relating to this
Agreement. Each party agrees that service of process in any action or proceeding
hereunder  may be made  upon  such  party  by  certified  mail,  return  receipt
requested  to the address for notice set forth  herein,  Each party  irrevocably
waives any  objection it may have to the venue of any action suit or  proceeding
brought  in such  courts  or to the  convenience  of the  forum  and each  party
irrevocably waives the right to proceed in any over jurisdiction. Final judgment
in any such action,  suit or proceeding  shall be conclusive and may be enforced
in other  jurisdictions  by suit on the  judgment,  a certified  or true copy of
which  shall  be  conclusive  evidence  of  the  fact  and  the  amount  of  any
indebtedness or liability of any party therein described.

15. Arbitration.  - Any dispute between the parties arising under this Agreement
which  cannot be amicably  resolved  between the  parties,  shall be resolved by
arbitration  in Chicago,  Illinois in accordance  with the  following  terms and
conditions:  either party may deliver a notice to all other  parties which shall
set forth in detail  all  issues  which it  believes  constitutes  a dispute  or
grievance.  Within twenty (20) days of the delivery of such notice,  counsel for
the parties shall  mutually  select as an  arbitrator an attorney  practicing in
Chicago,  Illinois who is experienced in commercial arbitration.  If counsel for
the  parties  are unable to agree upon the  selection  of this  arbitrator,  the
arbitrator  shall be an attorney  selected by the  President  of the Chicago Bar
Association. The Arbitrator so selected shall schedule a hearing on the disputed
issues within  forty-five  (45) days after his  appointment,  and the arbitrator
shall render his decision after the hearing,  in writing as  expeditiously as is
possible.  Except as set forth  herein the  arbitration  shall be  conducted  in
accordance with the rules of the American  Arbitration  Association,  unless the
parties  hereto agree  otherwise in writing.  A default  judgment may be entered
against any party who fails to appear at the arbitration hearing The decision of
the arbitrator shall be final and unappealable and shall be confirmed by a court
in any jurisdiction designated by the prevailing


<PAGE>


party.  The arbitrator  shall assess the costs of the arbitration to the parties
as he determines to be  appropriate.  The parties to this  Agreement  agree that
this  paragraph  has been  included  to resolve  rapidly and  inexpensively  any
disputes  which may arise,  and that  submission of a dispute to  arbitration in
accordance with this Agreement  paragraph shall constitute grounds for dismissal
of any action commenced by any party with respect to a dispute arising out of or
from  any  provisions  of this  Agreement,  except  for  actions  for  equitable
remedies, which shall survive the submission of a dispute for arbitration.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the parties hereto have executed this Employment  Agreement
as of the day and year first above written.



SOFTNET SYSTEMS


By:  ____________________________
     Its President



KANSAS COMMUNICATIONS, INC.


By: _____________________________
     Its President




_________________________________
Dale H. Sizemore, Jr.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>MANUF. AND DIST. LICENSE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>




                MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE AGREEMENT
<PAGE>


                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                            Page
PARTIES......................................................................  1

PREAMBLE.....................................................................  1
 
1.       DEFINITIONS.........................................................  1
         1.1      Affiliate..................................................  1
         1.2      CNAV.......................................................  1
         1.3      CNAV Order.................................................  2
         1.4      Cost Plus..................................................  2
         1.5      Current Customer...........................................  2
         1.6      Direct Competitor..........................................  2
         1.7      Distributor Agreement......................................  2
         1.8      HCIS Vendor................................................  2
         1.9      IMNET FILM OSS.............................................  2
         1.10     Intellectual Property......................................  2
         1.11     License Fees...............................................  2
         1.12     MegaSAR Equipment..........................................  2
         1.13     MegaSAR 420 Inventory......................................  2
         1.14     MegaSAR Product............................................  3
         1.15     Note.......................................................  3
         1.16     Prepaid License Fee........................................  3
         1.17     [Deleted.].................................................  3
         1.18     Provider...................................................  3
         1.19     Stock Pledge Agreement.....................................  3
         1.20     Term.......................................................  3
         1.21     Territory..................................................  3
         1.22     Unit.......................................................  3

2.       GRANT OF MANUFACTURING LICENSE......................................  3
         2.1      MegaSAR Product Manufacturing License......................  3
         2.2      Transition Support.........................................  4
         2.3      Restrictions on Use and Disclosure of Intellectual Property  4
         2.4      Restrictions on Use and Disclosure of Software.............  4

3.       GRANT OF DISTRIBUTION LICENSE.......................................  5
         3.1      MegaSAR Product Distribution License.......................  5
         3.2      Payment for Distribution License...........................  5
         3.3      Appointment of Distributors................................  5

4.       LICENSE FEES........................................................  5
         4.1      Prepaid License Fee........................................  5
         4.2      Additional License Fees....................................  5
         4.3      Quarterly Payments.........................................  5
         4.4      Records....................................................  5



341063.4
                                       -i-

<PAGE>


5.       SALE OF MEGASAR 420 INVENTORY AND MEGASAR EQUIPMENT.................  6
         5.1      MegaSAR 420 Inventory; IMNET as Exclusive Supplier.........  6
         5.2      Maintenance of MegaSAR 420 Inventory Records...............  6
         5.3      Payment for MegaSAR Equipment..............................  6

6.       FUTURE PURCHASES OF MEGASAR PRODUCTS BY IMNET.......................  7
         6.1      Appointment as Distributor.................................  7
         6.2      Agreement to Manufacture MegaSAR Products..................  7
         6.3      IMNET Quotation, Time and Material Services................  8
         6.4      Price for MegaSAR Products.................................  8
         6.5      Maintenance.  .............................................  8
         6.6      Spare Parts................................................  8
         6.7      CNAV and the CNAV Order....................................  8
         6.8      Price Changes for MegaSAR Products.........................  9
         6.9      Prices are FOB Licensee's Location.........................  9
         6.10     Purchase Orders............................................  9
         6.11     Title/Insurance............................................  9
         6.12     Payment Terms..............................................  9
         6.13     Acceptance of MegaSAR Products.............................  9
         6.14     Documentation..............................................  9
         6.15     Source Code Escrow......................................... 10

7.       AMENDMENT TO THE DISTRIBUTOR AGREEMENT.............................. 11
         7.1      Agreement to Amend Distributor Agreement................... 11
         7.2      Settlement of Amounts Due IMNET............................ 11

8.       CERTAIN RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS....................................... 11
         8.1      No Sales or Sales-Based Compensation to Direct Competitors. 11
         8.2      No Sales or Sales-Based Compensation to Current Customers.. 11
         8.3      No Sales or Sales-Based Compensation to HCIS Vendors....... 12
         8.4      No Sales or Sales-Based Compensation to Providers.......... 12
         8.5      No Competing Products...................................... 12

9.       IMNET'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES.............................. 12
         9.1      Binding Obligation......................................... 12
         9.2      Ownership Interests........................................ 13
         9.3      Good Standing.............................................. 13
         9.4      No Infringement............................................ 13
         9.5      Substantial Compliance..................................... 13
         9.6      No Third Party Payments.................................... 13
         9.7      Exception to Warranties and Representations for Generally A
                  Technology................................................. 13
         9.8.     IMNET Indemnity as to Infringement......................... 13


341063.4
                                      -ii-

<PAGE>


10.      LICENSEE'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES........................... 14
         10.1     Binding Obligation......................................... 14
         10.2     Good Standing.............................................. 14
         10.3     Licensee Indemnity as to Infringement...................... 15
         10.4     [Deleted.]................................................. 15
         10.5     Authorization to Bind Licensee............................. 15

11.      EQUIPMENT LIMITED WARRANTY...........................................15
         11.1     Limited Warranty............................................15
         11.2     Warranty Claim Procedures...................................15
         11.3     IMNET Provided Warranty Service.............................16
         11.4     Changes in Specifications...................................16
         11.5     Warranty May be Void in Certain Circumstances...............16
         11.6     Limitations on Warranty.....................................16
         11.7     Limitation on Liability.....................................16

12.      FURTHER LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY.................................... 17

13.      DATA AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS......................................... 17
         13.1     IMNET to Honor Licensee Rights............................. 17
         13.2     Notice of Unauthorized Use or Misappropriation............. 17

14.      TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES.......................................... 17
         14.1     IMNET Acknowledges Trademarks and Trade Names.............. 17

15.      TERMINATION.........................................................18
         15.1     Right to Terminate.........................................18
         15.2     Termination Does not Affect Pre-Termination Obligations....18
         15.3     Termination by IMNET Hereunder -- Effect on Licenses.......18

16.      TRAINING............................................................19

17.      APPLICABLE LAW......................................................19
         17.1     Georgia Law to Apply.......................................19
         17.2     Export.....................................................19

18.      INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS.............................................19

19.      ASSIGNMENT..........................................................19

20.      SOLICITATION OF EMPLOYEES...........................................20

21.      NOTICES.............................................................20

22.      DISPUTE RESOLUTION..................................................21
         22.1     Disputes to be Referred to Chief Executive Officers........21


341063.4
                                      -iii-
<PAGE>



         22.2     Arbitration................................................21
         22.3     Final and Binding Determination............................21

23.      INTERPRETATION......................................................21

24.      LEGAL FEES..........................................................22

25.      GENERAL.............................................................22



341063.4
                                       -iv-

<PAGE>

                                  EXHIBIT 10.35


                        CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED

         Confidential  Portions of this  Agreement  which have been redacted are
         marked  with  brackets  ("[ ]").  The omitted  material  has been filed
         separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


                MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE AGREEMENT


         This  Manufacturing and Distribution  License Agreement  ("Agreement"),
dated July 12,  1996 is by and  among  IMNET  Systems,  Inc.,  a  Delaware
corporation,  having  its  principal  place  of  business  in  Atlanta,  Georgia
("IMNET"),  SoftNet Systems, Inc., a New York corporation,  having its principal
place  of  business  in  Lake  Forest,   Illinois   ("SoftNet")   and  SoftNet's
wholly-owned  subsidiary,   Micrographic  Technology  Corporation,   a  Delaware
corporation  ("MTC")  having its principal  place of business in Mountain  View,
California. SoftNet and MTC are hereinafter jointly and severally referred to as
"Licensee".

                              W I T N E S S E T H:

         WHEREAS, IMNET has developed and owns certain proprietary  intellectual
property rights in microfilm retrieval devices; and

         WHEREAS,  SoftNet and MTC, acting  together,  desire for MTC to acquire
the exclusive worldwide manufacturing right to such devices; and

         WHEREAS,  SoftNet  and MTC,  acting  together,  also  desire for MTC to
acquire a nonexclusive right to distribute such devices; and

         WHEREAS,  IMNET desires to grant such  manufacturing  and  distribution
rights;

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants,  promises,  payments
and other valuable consideration contained in this Agreement, the parties hereto
hereby agree as follows:


1.       DEFINITIONS

         1.1 Affiliate.  "Affiliate"  means any person (or  affiliated  group of
persons) which under the term of this Agreement controls, is controlled by or is
under  common  control with either IMNET or SoftNet but only for so long as such
entity  controls,  is  controlled  by or is under  common  control with IMNET or
SoftNet, as appropriate.

         1.2 CNAV. "CNAV" is an acronym for a specific  department of the French
Social Security Administration.

341063.4

<PAGE>




         1.3 CNAV  Order.  "CNAV  Order"  means  orders for an  aggregate  of 11
MegaSAR 420s (an IMNET  developed  MegaSAR  Product) which have been placed with
IMNET through Advisoft Consulting ("Advisoft"), which is a Current Customer.

         1.4 Cost Plus.  "Cost Plus" means the actual cost  incurred by Licensee
of manufacturing a MegaSAR  Product,  computed on the basis set forth on Exhibit
1.4, plus 15%.

         1.5 Current  Customer.  "Current  Customer"  means one of the  entities
identified  on  Exhibit  1.5.  IMNET  hereby  represents  that all the  entities
identified  on  Exhibit  1.5  are  either  current  IMNET   customers,   current
distributors of IMNET products, or customers of IMNET distributors.

         1.6  Direct   Competitor.   "Direct   Competitor"  means  the  document
management  or  imaging  system  vendors  who  directly  compete  with  IMNET in
providing  document  imaging and  electronic  patient  record systems for use in
healthcare.

         1.7   Distributor   Agreement.   "Distributor   Agreement"   means  the
Distributor  Agreement  between IMNET and SoftNet (or successor) dated March 19,
1993, as amended.

         1.8 HCIS Vendor.  "HCIS  Vendor"  means a provider of software  systems
specifically  designed for use by Providers,  as opposed to more general purpose
types of software which are also incidentally  also used by Providers.  Examples
of providers of software  designed for general  business use are  Microsoft  and
IBM. However,  the term "HCIS Vendor" does include,  without limitation,  Cerner
Corporation, IDX Systems Corporation,  Integrated Medical Systems, Inc., PHAMIS,
Inc., HBO & Company, and Citation Systems, Inc.

         1.9 IMNET FILM OSS.  "IMNET FILM OSS" means the software  identified as
such on Exhibit 1.10.

         1.10 Intellectual Property.  "Intellectual  Property" means the patent,
copyright,  trade secret and confidential proprietary information of IMNET which
is utilized in the manufacture,  installation,  operation and service of MegaSAR
Products and is generally identified on Exhibit 1.10 hereto.

         1.11 License Fees.  "License  Fees" shall mean the Prepaid  License Fee
and all amounts payable by Licensee in accordance with Section 4.2 hereof.

         1.12 MegaSAR  Equipment.  "MegaSAR  Equipment"  means certain  tooling,
tools and other  equipment used in the  manufacture of the MegaSAR listed on the
"IMNET  Systems Net Book Value Report" as  previously  provided to Licensee (the
"NBV Report").

         1.13 MegaSAR 420  Inventory.  "MegaSAR 420  Inventory"  means the IMNET
MegaSAR inventory  described on a listing  previously  provided to Licensee.  It
includes the raw  materials,  work in progress and finished goods (less finished
goods required for current IMNET orders) identified on that list.


341063.4
                                        2

<PAGE>



         1.14 MegaSAR  Product.  "MegaSAR  Product"  means a microfilm (or other
film) retrieval  device,  including the existing MegaSAR 420 Microfilm  Jukebox,
which  incorporates  all or  part  of,  or is  derived  from,  the  Intellectual
Property,  or which  performs  substantially  all of the functions  such MegaSAR
Microfilm  Jukeboxes  perform.  It does not include IMNET  Products prior to the
MegaSAR 420, and Licensee shall have no rights to manufacture or distribute such
prior products

         1.15  Note.  "Note"  means  the  obligation  of  the  Licensee  to  pay
$2,909,627 as set forth in accordance  with the note attached  hereto as Exhibit
1.15,  and the Stock Pledge  Agreement,  and executed  concurrently  herewith by
Licensee.

         1.16 Prepaid License Fee.  "Prepaid License Fee" means the amount to be
paid to IMNET pursuant to Section 4.1 hereof.

         1.17     [Deleted.]

         1.18 Provider.  "Provider" means a hospital,  medical or dental clinic,
medical laboratory,  physician's office, physician practice group, nursing home,
or other  licensed  provider  of  medical,  dental,  hospital  or  nursing  home
services,  and those businesses  whose primary business is providing  management
services to such providers, such as Med Partners, Medaphis, or Renal Care Group,
Inc.

         1.19  Stock  Pledge  Agreement.  "Stock  Pledge  Agreement"  means  the
agreement for pledge of IMNET Common Stock and proceeds from the sale thereof by
Licensee, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.19.

         1.20 Term. "Term" means the period from the date hereof until the first
to occur of (i)  termination of this agreement  pursuant to Section 19.1 or (ii)
November 21, 2011.

         1.21     Territory.  "Territory" is worldwide.

         1.22 Unit. "Unit" means (i) a MegaSAR Product or a portion thereof;  or
(ii)  the  IMNET  FILM OSS or a  derivative  for  retrieving  and  displaying  a
particular  image from microfilm (or other film).  The  combination of a MegaSAR
Product and an IMNET FILM OSS or its  derivative  shall be  considered  a single
Unit. For example,  a single IMNET FILM OSS (or derivative)  sold in combination
with eight MegaSAR Products (or derivatives) would equal eight Units.


2.       GRANT OF MANUFACTURING LICENSE

         2.1 MegaSAR  Product  Manufacturing  License.  IMNET  hereby  grants to
Licensee  a single  exclusive,  perpetual  worldwide  license  to use the  IMNET
Intellectual Property solely to develop,  manufacture,  distribute,  install and
maintain MegaSAR Products subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,   IMNET  retains  the  right  to  complete  the
manufacture of MegaSAR 420s to complete the CNAV Order.  IMNET also retains full
manufacturing  rights  regarding all software which is part of the  Intellectual
Property;

341063.4
                                        3

<PAGE>



provided,  however, that Licensee shall retain ownership of any modifications to
the Intellectual Property made by Licensee.

         2.2   Transition   Support.   IMNET  has  made   confidential   written
recommendations to Licensee  regarding those IMNET  manufacturing or engineering
personnel  that Licensee may wish to consider  employing as MTC employees to aid
in Licensee's  activities with the MegaSAR Products.  IMNET will assist Licensee
in the transfer of the know-how related to the Intellectual  Property, for up to
six months from the date hereof using its then existing employees experienced in
manufacturing and engineering of the MegaSAR 420.

         2.3 Restrictions on Use and Disclosure of Intellectual Property. During
the Term in the Territory,  Licensee may use the Intellectual  Property only for
the  purpose  of  developing,   manufacturing,   distributing,   installing  and
maintaining  MegaSAR  Products in accordance with this  Agreement.  Furthermore,
Licensee agrees not to use, or to permit other persons to use, such Intellectual
Property except in accordance  with the terms of this Agreement.  Licensee shall
safeguard  the  certain  "confidential"  portions of the  Intellectual  Property
(identified  as such on Exhibit  1.10)  against  disclosure  to third parties by
using  at  least  the same  degree  of care as it uses  for its own  proprietary
information of similar nature. Except as necessary to support Licensee's efforts
hereunder,  Licensee shall  restrict  access to such  confidential  Intellectual
Property to  individuals  who are  employees  or agents of Licensee  and who are
bound by written agreement to protect the  confidentiality  of such Intellectual
Property,  Licensee's  counsel and  accountants who reasonably have need to know
such information in connection with the purposes of this Agreement.  Parties who
receive  knowledge of the  confidential  portions of the  Intellectual  Property
shall be bound by written  agreement  to  protect  the  confidentiality  of such
information. Licensee shall not be obligated to maintain confidentiality of such
confidential  Intellectual Property (i) which is, or becomes, publicly available
without fault on the part of Licensee; or (ii) which is disclosed to Licensee by
a third party without similar restrictions.

         2.4  Restrictions  on Use and  Disclosure  of  Software.  The  right to
exploit  certain  software  provided  to  Licensee  hereunder  as  part  of  the
Intellectual  Property is a  non-exclusive  license  for use of the  software by
Licensee,  Licensee's  end-user  customers or end-user  customers of  authorized
Licensee  subdistributors  on a single system utilizing MegaSAR  Products.  Such
software  may be modified or copied in whole or in part by Licensee for purposes
of providing copies for distribution,  for backup purposes,  for demonstrations,
and for development of MegaSAR Products. The software may only be utilized as an
integral  part of MegaSAR  Products.  The source  code to the IMNET FILM OSS and
MegaSAR.exe  which is  provided to  Licensee  hereunder  shall not be copied for
distribution  to third  parties or otherwise  made  available by Licensee to any
third  party.  Neither  title  to  nor  ownership  of  the  software  and  other
Intellectual Property is hereby transferred to Licensee; provided, however, that
Licensee  shall  retain  ownership  of any  modifications  to  the  Intellectual
Property  made by  Licensee.  Licensee  agrees  to take  appropriate  action  by
instruction  or agreement  with its employees  who are  permitted  access to the
Intellectual  Property to fulfill  its  obligations  hereunder.  At its risk and
expense, Licensee or Licensee's subdistributor may modify the software delivered
hereunder  so as to meet the  needs of  Licensee  or any  end-user  customer  or
subdistributor.  All such  modifications  shall be the  property  of Licensee or
Licensee's  subdistributors  as  applicable.  Licensee  may  sublicense  to  any
subdistributor  or  end-user  any  software  (other  than  IMNET  FILM  OSS  and
MegaSAR.exe source code) furnished to Licensee under this Agreement and an

341063.4
                                        4

<PAGE>


                                          [ ] - Confidential Treatment Requested

authorized subdistributor may sublicense such software to any end-user. All such
sublicenses must be in writing,  prohibit  further  transfers or sublicensing by
end-users,  and be approved in advance as to form by IMNET for  presentation  to
end-user customers.


3.       GRANT OF DISTRIBUTION LICENSE

         3.1 MegaSAR Product  Distribution  License.  IMNET grants to Licensee a
single non-exclusive,  non-transferable, perpetual, worldwide license to market,
distribute  and sell MegaSAR  Products.  Licensee  acknowledges  and agrees that
IMNET retains the right to market, distribute and sell MegaSAR Products.

         3.2 Payment for Distribution License. In consideration of the marketing
and  distribution  rights granted  pursuant to this  Agreement,  Licensee hereby
agrees to make the payments of the License Fees pursuant to Article 4 below,  as
well as all other payments due hereunder and under the Note.

         3.3 Appointment of Distributors.  Licensee may appoint  subdistributors
to  assist  Licensee  in  exploiting  the  distribution  rights  granted  to  it
hereunder,  and shall  provide  IMNET  with  notice of the  appointment  of such
subdistributors  upon  their  appointment.  Any  such  subdistributor  shall  be
required to abide by the  provisions  of  Articles  2.3,  2.4 and 8 hereof,  and
Licensee and such  subdistributor must acknowledge in writing that IMNET has the
right to enforce such provisions directly against such subdistributor.

4.       LICENSE FEES

         4.1 Prepaid License Fee.  Licensee will pay IMNET a Prepaid License Fee
in the  amount of  $1,000,000  which is a  non-refundable  prepaid  license  fee
evidenced by the Note. Licensee shall have no further license fee obligations in
connection with the initial sale of the first 250 Units.

         4.2  Additional  License Fees. In addition to the Prepaid  License Fee,
IMNET shall be entitled to receive a License Fee on each Unit sold by  Licensee,
during the Term of this  Agreement,  beginning  with the 251st  Unit  sold.  The
License Fee shall be [ ] per Unit.

         4.3 Quarterly Payments. Throughout the term of this Agreement, Licensee
shall provide  quarterly  reports (by the 30th of the month following the end of
the calendar quarter for which the report is prepared) to IMNET,  specifying the
number of Units  sold and a  computation  and  payment of any  License  Fees (or
credits  against the Prepaid  License Fee) then due to IMNET.  The obligation to
pay License Fees shall  continue  after the term of this Agreement so that IMNET
receives  payment  for all Units  sold by  Licensee  during  the  Term,  even if
delivery of such Units occurs after expiration of the Term.

         4.4 Records.  Licensee shall keep accurate  records relating to License
Fees due IMNET  hereunder.  Upon  request  of IMNET,  but not more than once per
year, at IMNET's

341063.4
                                        5

<PAGE>



expense,  Licensee  shall permit IMNET to have an independent  certified  public
accountant examine those of Licensee's records which relate to its obligation to
pay License Fees (and its  obligations)  hereunder.  The  accounting  firm shall
provide a copy of its report to Licensee.


5.       SALE OF MEGASAR 420 INVENTORY AND MEGASAR EQUIPMENT

         5.1 MegaSAR 420 Inventory; IMNET as Exclusive Supplier. IMNET agrees to
sell to  Licensee  and  Licensee  agrees  that  when  and if  Licensee  requires
inventory parts for the purposes of manufacturing the MegaSAR 420, Licensee will
first  order the  required  parts from  IMNET and to the  extent  such parts are
unavailable,  Licensee  will then order the  required  part from a vendor of its
choice.  The purchase  price for each item of the MegaSAR 420 Inventory  will be
the lower of cost or market  (LCM) on the date the order is placed by  Licensee,
plus  shipping.  If the parties  cannot agree on the market value of the MegaSAR
Inventory  at the time the order is placed,  both  parties  agree to submit such
question to the certified public  accounting firm of Arthur Andersen,  or in the
event of its refusal or inability to act,  then to another "Big Six"  accounting
firm mutually agreeable to IMNET and Licensee, or failing such agreement,  to an
accounting firm selected by Arthur  Andersen.  The  determination of the MegaSAR
Inventory's  value in question by the accounting firm so retained shall be final
and binding upon both parties.  Payment terms for MegaSAR  Inventory  ordered by
Licensee  shall be net 30 days.  Prices  are FOB  IMNET's  headquarters  and are
exclusive of taxes, duties,  shipping and insurance,  all of which shall be paid
by  Licensee.  Title shall pass to  Licensee  upon  delivery.  In the absence of
specific  instructions,  IMNET will insure MegaSAR 420 Inventory against risk of
loss or damage until received by Licensee at the receiving  location  designated
by Licensee.

         5.2 Maintenance of MegaSAR 420 Inventory Records.  IMNET shall maintain
accurate records  regarding the MegaSAR 420 Inventory not delivered to or placed
within the control of Licensee hereunder.

         5.3 Payment for MegaSAR  Equipment.  Within 30 days of the execution of
the Agreement, Licensee shall inspect such MegaSAR Equipment and either agree to
accept or reject  each item on the NBV  Report.  For  those  items  accepted  by
Licensee, IMNET agrees to sell to Licensee, and Licensee agrees to purchase from
IMNET, the MegaSAR  Equipment.  The purchase price for the MegaSAR  Equipment is
set forth on the NBV Report.  The purchase  price shall be added to the sums due
under the Note, by an amendment to the Note, and Licensee shall make payment for
the MegaSAR Equipment in accordance with the terms of the Note. IMNET represents
and  warrants  that it has  good,  valid  and  marketable  title to the  MegaSAR
Equipment  purchased  by  Licensee  and that none of the  MegaSAR  Equipment  is
subject to any mortgage,  pledge,  lien,  security  interest,  conditional  sale
agreement or  encumbrance of any kind.  IMNET also  represents and warrants that
the MegaSAR Equipment  purchased by Licensee is in adequate operating  condition
and repair and conforms to its respective manufacturers' specifications, subject
to normal wear and tear.



341063.4
                                        6

<PAGE>



6.       FUTURE PURCHASES OF MEGASAR PRODUCTS BY IMNET

         6.1  Appointment  as  Distributor.  Licensee  hereby  grants to IMNET a
single non-exclusive,  non-transferable, worldwide license to market, distribute
and sell  MegaSAR  Products  (other  than  those  which  constitute  part of the
Intellectual Property, as to which IMNET has retained rights) during the Term.

         6.2      Agreement to Manufacture MegaSAR Products.

                  6.2.1 All  MegaSAR  Products  developed  and  manufactured  by
         Licensee shall utilize the IMNET FILM OSS, or shall be fully compatible
         with the IMNET FILM OSS and MegaSAR.exe in all respects.

                  6.2.2  For at least the first  five  years of this  Agreement,
         Licensee shall manufacture the MegaSAR 420 or its functional equivalent
         (the "MegaSAR 420"), and offer it for sale.

                  6.2.3 In the event that Licensee  decides to  discontinue  the
         manufacture  of  MegaSAR  Products  after  the  five  (5)  year  period
         described above, Licensee shall:

                         6.2.3.1  provide  IMNET  with  120  days  prior  notice
                  of Licensee's decision;

                         6.2.3.2 return all Intellectual  Property  provided to
                  Licensee by IMNET by the effective date of Licensee's
                  discontinuance  of the manufacture of MegaSAR products.
                  Licensee's right to manufacture and distribute MegaSAR
                  products shall terminate on that date;

                  6.2.4 In the event  that  Licensee  decides to sell or license
         its rights to any derived  technology or intellectual  property derived
         from the Intellectual Property to any third party, IMNET shall be given
         the  right to match  any bona  fide  offer  from  such  third  party to
         purchase or otherwise license such rights. Licensee shall provide IMNET
         with such information concerning such offer as may be reasonably needed
         to assess such offer and IMNET shall have ten (10)  business  days from
         its receipt in which to agree to the terms of the third party offer. In
         the event that IMNET either  declines  such terms,  or fails to respond
         within  the  ten  day   period,   Licensee's   obligation   under  this
         subparagraph shall expire with respect to such third party's offer. Any
         transferee  shall be bound by Licensee's  obligations  pursuant to this
         Agreement  regarding any such derived  technology,  including  Sections
         2.3, 2.4 and Article 8.

                  6.2.5  During  such time as  Licensee's  right to  manufacture
         MegaSAR  Products  is in  effect,  IMNET  will  provide  Licensee  with
         information regarding all relevant  corrections,  updates, "bug fixes",
         new releases,  and new versions of IMNET FILM OSS and MegaSAR.exe.  All
         such  material  shall be  subject  to the terms and  conditions  of the
         Agreement.  Licensee  shall  promptly  update  the  IMNET  FILM OSS and
         MegaSAR.exe  (or  equivalent)  used by it in  connection  with  MegaSAR
         Products.  In no event shall Licensee  require more than eight weeks to
         implement corrections, updates, "bug fixes"

341063.4
                                        7

<PAGE>



         and new releases. In the event of a release of a new version,  Licensee
         shall implement an update within no more than three months.

         6.3 IMNET  Quotation,  Time and Material  Services.  IMNET will provide
certain  specified  MegaSAR  Product  development   assistance  to  Licensee  in
accordance  with Exhibit 6.3.  The purpose of these  services  will be to assist
Licensee  in  integrating  the IMNET FILM OSS to  Licensee's  existing  document
management  solution  known as "Coed".  A brief  description of the scope of the
work to be done by IMNET is also attached  hereto as part of Exhibit 6.3.  Other
work will be done by IMNET for Licensee,  as agreed in the future on a "time and
materials"  basis at IMNET's regular rates in accordance  with IMNET's  standard
agreements for such services.

         6.4 Price for MegaSAR  Products.  Licensee hereby agrees to manufacture
and to make available for sale to IMNET MegaSAR Products. The price to IMNET for
each MegaSAR 420 shall be the lower of (i) the current  cost of IMNET  ("IMNET's
Cost"),  computed as set forth on Exhibit 6.4 per unit (as adjusted  annually to
reflect  changes in the Producer Price Index);  or (ii) Cost Plus. The price for
other MegaSAR Products shall be as may be mutually agreed upon by the parties at
the time of such MegaSAR Product's introduction.  IMNET's orders for Units shall
be given at least equal priority to Licensee's other preferred customers,  i.e.,
"most favored customer" status,  with regard to scheduling,  delivery,  returns,
pricing,  support,  service,  and all other aspects of manufacturing,  delivery,
installing and maintaining such products.

         6.5  Maintenance.  IMNET,  its distributors and end users shall receive
warranty,  maintenance and installation  service at prices and on other terms no
less favorable to IMNET,  its distributors and such customers than those granted
by Licensee to its other preferred end user customers.

         6.6 Spare Parts.  Licensee will make available all spare parts to IMNET
so as to permit  IMNET to continue to support its  existing  MegaSAR  customers.
Licensee will make available  spare parts to IMNET at Cost Plus,  except for any
MegaSAR  420  Inventory  which has been  delivered  to  Licensee,  but for which
Licensee has not yet paid in  accordance  with  Section 5.1.  These latter parts
will be  provided  to IMNET at no charge  other  than  shipping.  Licensee  will
maintain an adequate  supply of spare and  replacement  parts and  maintain  and
replenish  such  supply as  necessary  for the  performance  by  Licensee of its
obligations hereunder.

         6.7  CNAV  and  the  CNAV  Order.   IMNET  is  retaining  at  least  11
MegaSAR-420s for delivery to Advisoft for redelivery pursuant to the CNAV Order.
To the extent that CNAV orders additional MegaSAR Products through Advisoft, and
IMNET has no others in stock,  IMNET  will  order  such  MegaSAR  Products  from
Licensee.  IMNET  agrees not to sell such  MegaSAR  Products  to  Advisoft  at a
discount level below the discounts  currently being offered to Advisoft  without
Licensee's   prior   approval.   All   amounts   received   by  IMNET  for  such
Licensee-supplied  MegaSAR  Products  shall  be  promptly  "passed  through"  to
Licensee. These "passed through" revenues shall apply solely to MegaSAR Products
ordered by Advisoft for CNAV,  and not to other IMNET software such as the IMNET
FILM OSS.  Similarly,  the right granted to Licensee to  participate  in lieu of
IMNET in such equipment sales to CNAV shall not

341063.4
                                        8

<PAGE>



apply to other  departments  of the French  government  that may order  products
through Advisoft, other IMNET distributors, or IMNET.

         6.8 Price Changes for MegaSAR Products.  Licensee will provide 30 days'
advance  written notice to IMNET of any changes in prices for MegaSAR  Products.
Within 15 days of receipt of such notice,  IMNET will furnish Licensee a list of
quotations  already submitted to customers or potential  clients.  Licensee will
honor the previously  prevailing  prices for any orders against such  quotations
which have been submitted to Licensee for delivery within 90 days of the date of
order acceptance by Licensee.

         6.9  Prices are FOB  Licensee's  Location.  Prices  are FOB  Licensee's
manufacturing  and  development  center  which  is  located  in  Mountain  View,
California and are exclusive of all taxes and duties.  IMNET shall pay taxes and
duties  associated  with the sale of the MegaSAR  Products by it,  exclusive  of
taxes based on Licensee's income.

         6.10 Purchase Orders.  Purchase orders must be on IMNET's approved form
and  are  subject  to  written  acceptance  by  Licensee,   which  will  not  be
unreasonably  withheld or  delayed.  They must  incorporate  this  Agreement  by
reference.  Any change to previously accepted purchase orders will be treated as
new purchase  orders  submitted for acceptance by Licensee.  Purchase orders and
confirmations  sent via facsimile will be accepted by Licensee and IMNET.  IMNET
will  provide good faith  confidential  estimates of the number of each model of
MegaSAR Products it anticipates that it will purchase, but shall not be required
to purchase such quantities until it submits a purchase order, and such order is
accepted by Licensee.

         6.11 Title/Insurance.  Title in MegaSAR Products and risk of loss shall
pass to IMNET upon Delivery (FOB Licensee's factory). In the absence of specific
instructions  Licensee will insure all MegaSAR Products for delivery against all
risk or loss or  damage  until  received  by  IMNET  at the  receiving  location
designated by IMNET.  IMNET shall reimburse Licensee for the actual cost of such
insurance.

         6.12  Payment  Terms.  Payment  for  MegaSAR  Products  will be made in
accordance with Exhibit 6.12.

         6.13 Acceptance of MegaSAR Products.  MegaSAR Products ordered by IMNET
hereunder  shall be  deemed  to have  been  "Accepted"  by IMNET  when they pass
Licensee's  standard test procedures  (including  manufacturer's  standard setup
diagnostics) at IMNET or IMNET's customer site, thereby  demonstrating that they
perform in accordance with specifications.

         6.14  Documentation.  Licensee will supply IMNET, at no charge,  with a
set of technical  instructional and operational  manuals in the English language
with each  MegaSAR  Product  purchased  hereunder.  Additional  MegaSAR  Product
documentation  shall  be  provided  by  Licensee  at  then-prevailing   Licensee
literature prices as determined from time to time by Licensee.  Upon termination
of this  Agreement,  IMNET  agrees to return to Licensee  any  documentation  in
IMNET's possession which was provided by Licensee at no charge to IMNET.


341063.4
                                        9

<PAGE>



         6.15     Source Code Escrow.

                  6.15.1  IMNET  shall  place a copy of the source  code for the
         IMNET FILM OSS and MegaSAR.exe  with an independent  escrow agent.  The
         escrow agent shall be authorized to release the source code to Licensee
         if and when Licensee has the right thereto as provided below.

                  6.15.2 Provided that Licensee is not then in default under the
         terms of this Agreement, the escrow agent shall provide to Licensee one
         complete   copy  of  the  source  code  for  the  IMNET  FILM  OSS  and
         MegaSAR.exe,  brought up to date as of the delivery of such source code
         upon occurrence of any one or more of the following events:

                           6.15.2.1 IMNET ceases, for any reason, to do
                  business; or

                           6.15.2.2 The undisputed  failure by IMNET,  following
                  not less than 30 days  written  notice from  Licensee  clearly
                  indicating the alleged  failure by IMNET to maintain the IMNET
                  FILM  OSS  and  MegaSAR.exe  and  such  failure  substantially
                  impairs  Licensee's or its  customers'  ability to operate and
                  use the  IMNET  FILM OSS or  MegaSAR.exe  in  accordance  with
                  IMNET's  specifications.  If such  failure is  disputed,  such
                  notice must be  supplemented  by an  arbitrated  decision,  as
                  defined below, or by a court order resolving the dispute; or

                           6.15.2.3 A case shall be commenced by or against I
                  MNET under the United States Bankruptcy Act.

                  6.15.3 Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the
         event that any of the source code documentation contains source code of
         software  licensed to IMNET and sublicensed to Licensee,  Licensee will
         be required to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the escrow agent that
         it is properly  licensed by such  licensor or Licensee to obtain access
         to such  source  code.  In the event  that the escrow  supplied  by the
         escrow agent contains third-party development tools (e.g.,  compilers),
         Licensee  shall be responsible  for obtaining  licenses from such third
         parties for the use of such products.

                  6.15.4  Any  request to the  escrow  agent for the  release of
         Intellectual  Property  source  code  shall  include  (i) a copy of any
         default  notice sent to IMNET as set forth  above,  along with proof of
         delivery of such notice to IMNET;  (ii) written  demand that the source
         code be  released  and  delivered  to  Licensee,  along  with  specific
         delivery  instructions;  (iii) written affirmation by Licensee that the
         source code supplied will be used only in accordance  with the terms of
         this  Agreement;  (iv) a copy of the  Agreement,  and  proof  that  all
         payments to Licensee under the Agreement are current;  and (v) any fees
         due the escrow agent for the escrow  and/or  release of the source code
         being provided.

                  6.15.5 Upon taking  possession  of the source code  hereunder,
         Licensee  agrees  that  such  source  code  shall  be  subject  to  the
         restriction  on use,  transfer,  sales and  reproduction  placed on the
         Intellectual Property by this Agreement.


341063.4
                                       10

<PAGE>



                  6.15.6 This escrow  obligation  will  commence on the date the
         Intellectual  Property is  delivered  to  Licensee  and expire one year
         after  termination of the License granted  herein.  IMNET shall utilize
         its Escrow Agent, Fort Knox Escrow Services, Inc. of Clarkston, Georgia
         as escrow agent under this Agreement.

                  6.15.7 Licensee shall use the source code and related material
         only for the maintenance of Intellectual  Property licensed from IMNET.
         It is expressly  understood that this Section  pertains to the right to
         use the  Intellectual  Property  and that no rights to ownership of the
         source code shall pass from IMNET to Licensee,  unless expressly agreed
         upon  herein in  writing.  It is also  expressly  understood  that this
         source  code is the  confidential  and  secret  asset of IMNET  and the
         source code will be secured by Licensee and not  reproduced  or copied,
         or  be  made  available  to  any  other  party.  It is  also  expressly
         understood  that the source  code will  either be  returned to IMNET or
         destroyed  once the default  which gave  Licensee  access to the source
         code is removed.
         UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES IS THE SOURCE CODE TO BE SOLD,  TRANSFERRED,  OR
         COPIED BY LICENSEE.


7.       AMENDMENT TO THE DISTRIBUTOR AGREEMENT

         7.1 Agreement to Amend  Distributor  Agreement.  Concurrently  with the
execution  and  delivery  of this  Agreement,  the  Note  and the  Stock  Pledge
Agreement,  the  Distributor  Agreement  shall be  amended by the  execution  of
Exhibit 7.1.

         7.2 Settlement of Amounts Due IMNET.  Concurrently  herewith,  and as a
condition to the amendment to the Distributor Agreement, SoftNet acknowledges it
owes IMNET  $377,752.12,  representing all amounts previously due to IMNET under
the Distributor Agreement. The details of the amount due IMNET, and the invoices
which are to be satisfied by this payment,  are specified on Exhibit 7.2.  IMNET
will accept such  payment,  made under the Note,  as full payment of all amounts
due under the referenced  invoices.  Each of IMNET and Licensee hereby represent
to the other  that they are aware of no  outstanding  invoices  or credits to be
obtained against any such invoices except as specified herein and on Exhibit 7.2
arising from the Distributor Agreement.


8.       CERTAIN RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS

         8.1 No Sales or Sales-Based Compensation to Direct Competitors.  During
the Term in the Territory,  neither  Licensee nor any Affiliate of Licensee will
(i) sell,  license or lease  MegaSAR  Products  to Direct  Competitors;  or (ii)
provide any direct or indirect  compensation to such Direct Competitors based on
(or  otherwise  in  connection  with) the  purchase,  license or lease by Direct
Competitors,  end-users or distributors of MegaSAR  Products.  This clause shall
not be read to  prohibit  sales,  licensing  or leasing  of  MegaSAR  Product to
end-users of software products licensed for them by Direct Competitors.

         8.2 No Sales or Sales-Based  Compensation to Current Customers.  During
the Term in the Territory,  neither  Licensee nor any Affiliate of Licensee will
(i) sell, license or lease

341063.4
                                       11

<PAGE>



MegaSAR Products to Current  Customers  (including  Current  Customers which are
IMNET's  authorized  distributors);  or (ii)  provide  any  direct  or  indirect
compensation  to such Current  Customers  based on (or  otherwise in  connection
with) the  purchase,  license or lease by end-users or  distributors  of MegaSAR
Products.

         8.3 No Sales or Sales-Based  Compensation  to HCIS Vendors.  During the
Term in the Territory,  neither  Licensee nor any Affiliate of Licensee will (i)
sell,  license or lease MegaSAR  Products to HCIS  Vendors;  or (ii) provide any
direct or indirect  compensation  to such HCIS Vendors based on (or otherwise in
connection with) the purchase,  license or lease by end-users or distributors of
MegaSAR Products.

         8.4 No Sales or Sales-Based Compensation to Providers.  During the Term
in the Territory,  neither Licensee nor any Affiliate of Licensee will (i) sell,
license or lease MegaSAR  Products to  Providers;  or (ii) provide any direct or
indirect  compensation to any person based on (or otherwise in connection  with)
the purchase, license or lease by Providers of MegaSAR Products.

         8.5 No Competing Products.  During the Term in the Territory,  Licensee
acknowledges and agrees that neither Licensee nor any Affiliate of Licensee will
develop,  manufacture,  or sell,  license or lease any  product  which  performs
substantially the same functions as a Unit, unless a License Fee is paid thereon
to IMNET as though such product were a Unit.

         8.6      [Deleted.]


9.       IMNET'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

         IMNET hereby makes the  following  representations  and  warranties  to
Licensee and enters into the following covenants:

         9.1  Binding  Obligation.  This  Agreement  constitutes  the  valid and
binding  obligation of IMNET  enforceable  against IMNET in accordance  with its
terms, except as such  enforceability may be limited by insolvency,  bankruptcy,
reorganization  or  other  laws  affecting  creditors'  rights  and  by  general
equitable principles. The execution,  delivery and performance of this Agreement
by IMNET will not (i) conflict with or result in the breach or  termination  of,
or  constitute  a  default  under,  any  lease  agreement,  commitment  or other
instrument  or any  order,  judgment  or decree to which  IMNET is a party or by
which it is bound; (ii) constitute a violation by IMNET of any applicable law or
regulation;  or (iii) result in the creation of any lien,  charge or encumbrance
upon  any of  the  Intellectual  Property,  MegaSAR  420  Inventory  or  MegaSAR
Equipment,  licensed and/or sold to Licensee under this  Agreement.  No consent,
approval or  authorization  of, or designation,  declaration or filing with, any
governmental  authority  or other  third party is required to be obtained on the
part  of  IMNET  in  connection  with  this  Agreement,  except  such  consents,
approvals,  etc., as have been  obtained.  IMNET is currently  solvent,  and the
transactions contemplated in this Agreement will not render it insolvent.


341063.4
                                       12

<PAGE>



         9.2  Ownership  Interests.  IMNET  owns  sufficient  right,  title  and
interest in and to the Intellectual Property, MegaSAR 420 Inventory, and MegaSAR
Equipment to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement.  IMNET
has full  right,  title and  interest in and to the  MegaSAR  Equipment  and the
MegaSAR 420 Inventory,  except "components on order" inventory. IMNET represents
and warrants that the right, title and interest to the Intellectual  Property is
free and clear of all liens and encumbrances and further warrants that there are
no existing copyrights, trade secrets or similar property rights of others which
are or will be  infringed  upon or  interfered  with by the grants  made in this
Agreement.

         9.3 Good  Standing.  IMNET is a corporation  duly organized and validly
existing  and in good  standing  under the laws of the State of Delaware and has
full  corporate  power  and  authority  to carry on its  business  as  presently
conducted  and has  full  corporate  power  and  authority  to enter  into  this
Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated herein.

         9.4 No Infringement. None of the Intellectual Property infringes on any
patents,  trademarks or copyrights or any other rights  (including  Intellectual
Property rights) or any person or violate the terms of any license or sublicense
for such Intellectual  Property.  IMNET has no reasonable basis to believe there
are any claims of third  parties to the use of any such  Intellectual  Property,
nor does IMNET know of have any  reasonable  basis to believe  that there exists
any basis for any such claim or claims.

         9.5 Substantial  Compliance.  All of the software delivered to Licensee
hereunder  will  substantially  comply  with  the  performance   representations
regarding  such  software  as set forth in the user or  instruction  manuals and
related  documentation  associated  with  each  such  program.   Similarly,  the
Intellectual Property is sufficient, when taken together with adequate know-how,
to enable a business whose employees and agents are reasonably competent in such
matters to  manufacture a MegaSAR 420 as currently  designed.  A MegaSAR 420, as
currently designed,  manufactured to current manufacturing  specifications will,
when completed and tested,  perform in substantial  compliance  with its written
specifications.

         9.6 No Third Party Payments.  Except as set forth herein,  IMNET is not
currently  required  nor will  Licensee  be  required to pay any entity or third
party any fees or License  Fees or other  compensation  in order to utilize  the
Intellectual Property to manufacture MegaSAR 420, as currently designed.

         9.7 Exception to Warranties and Representations for Generally Available
Technology.  The warranties and  representations  of IMNET herein set forth with
regard to the Intellectual Property do not apply to Intellectual Property,  such
as basic software or materials or components,  that is readily  available on the
open  market at  published  prices and which may be  purchased  by  Licensee  on
substantially  the same terms and conditions as those on which such products are
available to IMNET.

         9.8.  IMNET  Indemnity  as to  Infringement.  IMNET  shall  defend  and
indemnify Licensee against, at IMNET's expense, any suit against Licensee to the
extent based on a claim or infringement  of a U.S. patent or other  intellectual
property right by the  Intellectual  Property  provided  Licensee:  (i) notifies
IMNET  promptly in writing of the claim;  (ii) gives  IMNET sole  control of the
defense and  settlement of same,  subject to Licensee's  right to participate in
such

341063.4
                                       13

<PAGE>



defense  and  settlement  described  below;  and  (iii)  provides  to IMNET  all
available  information,  assistance  and authority to defend.  Licensee shall be
permitted  to  participate  in such defense and  settlement,  but shall not have
authority as to any settlement which is fully paid by IMNET.  Should any MegaSAR
Product or any portion become, or in Licensee's opinion be likely to become, the
subject of a claim of such infringement by Intellectual Property, Licensee shall
permit IMNET at IMNET's option  either:  (i) to obtain for Licensee the right to
sell or  license  and use such  MegaSAR  Product;  (ii)  replace  or modify  the
Intellectual  Property  so that it becomes  non-infringing;  or (iii)  reimburse
Licensee  for that  portion of the License  Fees paid  regarding  the  allegedly
infringing  Intellectual  Property,  less depreciation (an equal amount per year
over the Term) for use, damage and obsolescence, and accept its return. However,
IMNET  shall have no  responsibility  to defend or  indemnify  against any claim
based  upon (i) use of any  MegaSAR  Product  in  combination  with any  device,
software  or data  (not a part of the  Intellectual  Property);  (ii) use of any
MegaSAR  Product  in  practicing  any  process;  or (iii) the  result of IMNET's
compliance with designs or specifications of Licensee.  THE FOREGOING STATES THE
ENTIRE LIABILITY OF IMNET WITH REGARD TO INFRINGEMENT BY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.


10.      LICENSEE'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

         Licensee hereby makes the following  representations  and warranties to
IMNET and enters into the following covenants:

         10.1  Binding  Obligation.  This  Agreement  constitutes  the valid and
binding  obligation  of each of  SoftNet  and MTC  enforceable  against  them in
accordance  with its  terms,  except as such  enforceability  may be  limited by
insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or other laws affecting creditors' rights
and by general equitable principles. The execution,  delivery and performance of
this Agreement by Licensee will not (i) conflict with or result in the breach or
termination of, or constitute a default under, any lease  agreement,  commitment
or other  instrument  or any order,  judgment  or decree to which  Licensee is a
party or by which it is bound; or (ii) constitute a violation by Licensee of any
applicable  law or  regulation.  No consent,  approval or  authorization  of, or
designation,  declaration  or filing with, any  governmental  authority or other
third party is  required  to be  obtained on the part of Licensee in  connection
with  this  Agreement,  except  such  consents,  approvals,  etc.,  as have been
obtained. Each Licensee is currently solvent, and the transactions  contemplated
in this Agreement will not render either insolvent.

         10.2 Good Standing. SoftNet is a corporation duly organized and validly
existing and in good standing  under the laws of the State of New York, has full
corporate  power and authority to carry on its business as presently  conducted,
and has full  corporate  power and authority to enter into this Agreement and to
consummate  the  transactions  contemplated  herein.  MTC is a corporation  duly
organized and validly  existing and in good standing under the laws of the State
of Delaware,  has full corporate power and authority to carry on its business as
presently  conducted,  and has full corporate  power and authority to enter into
this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated herein.


341063.4
                                       14

<PAGE>



         10.3 Licensee  Indemnity as to Infringement.  Licensee shall defend and
indemnify IMNET against,  at Licensee's  expense,  any suit against IMNET to the
extent based on a claim or infringement  of a U.S. patent or other  intellectual
property right (other than those which are a part of the Intellectual  Property)
by any MegaSAR  Product,  provided  IMNET:  (i)  notifies  Licensee  promptly in
writing of the claim;  (ii)  gives  Licensee  sole  control of the  defense  and
settlement of same,  subject to IMNET'S right to participate in such defense and
settlement  described  below;  and (iii)  provides  to  Licensee  all  available
information,  assistance  and  authority to defend.  IMNET shall be permitted to
participate in such defense and  settlement,  but shall not have authority as to
any settlement  which is fully paid by Licensee.  Should any MegaSAR  Product or
any portion become, or in Licensee's opinion be likely to become, the subject of
a claim of such  infringement,  IMNET shall permit Licensee at Licensee's option
either:  (i) to  obtain  for IMNET  the  right to sell or  license  and use such
MegaSAR  Product;  (ii) replace or modify the MegaSAR Product so that it becomes
non-infringing;  or (iii)  grant  IMNET  credit for such  MegaSAR  Product  less
depreciation  (an equal amount per year over the life of the MegaSAR  Product as
established  by  Licensee)  for use,  damage  and  obsolescence,  and accept its
return.  However,  Licensee shall have no  responsibility to defend or indemnify
against any claim based upon (i) use of any MegaSAR Product in combination  with
any non-Licensee  device,  software or data where such use in combination  forms
the basis of the  claim of  infringement;  (ii) use of any  MegaSAR  Product  in
practicing any process;  (iii) the result of Licensee's  compliance with designs
or  specifications  of IMNET.  THE  FOREGOING  STATES  THE ENTIRE  LIABILITY  OF
LICENSEE WITH REGARD TO INFRINGEMENT BY MEGASAR PRODUCTS.

         10.4     [Deleted.]

         10.5  Authorization  to Bind Licensee.  Written  documents  executed on
behalf of either of MTC or SoftNet  may be relied  upon by IMNET as having  been
executed by Licensee.


11.      EQUIPMENT LIMITED WARRANTY

         11.1  Limited  Warranty.  For a  period  of 90 days  from  the  date of
Acceptance  by IMNET of  MegaSAR  Products,  or for a  period  of 90 days  after
shipment of such MegaSAR Products to any end-user customer of IMNET (or an IMNET
distributor)  (provided  such  shipment  is  made no  more  than  30 days  after
Licensee's  delivery to IMNET),  such MegaSAR Product shall be free from defects
in material and  workmanship.  Any MegaSAR  Product which  complies with current
specifications (those in effect at the date of delivery) shall not be considered
defective. Licensee's sole liability and IMNET's sole and exclusive remedy for a
breach of warranty is limited to (at Licensee's  sole option and expense) repair
or  replacement  of the MegaSAR  Products or part  thereof  which is returned to
Licensee's  plant or  designated  repair  depot,  or refund of the price paid by
IMNET or its end-user customer, if delivered to the end-user.

         11.2  Warranty  Claim  Procedures.  IMNET or its end-user  shall notify
Licensee  in writing  of the  defective  MegaSAR  Products  within the  warranty
period.  Freight  expenses,  duties and tariffs for MegaSAR products returned by
IMNET will be prepaid by IMNET. Licensee shall pay for shipment back to IMNET or
the customer of IMNET, including duties and tariffs,

341063.4
                                       15

<PAGE>



if any,  provided,  however,  that if Licensee's  inspection  discloses that the
returned  MegaSAR Products or part(s) are not defective within the terms of this
warranty,  Licensee's standard maintenance/repair charges shall be paid by IMNET
or the customer in addition to all shipping expenses.

         11.3 IMNET  Provided  Warranty  Service.  IMNET will  perform  warranty
service on all MegaSAR  Products it has sold to date, and those sold pursuant to
the CNAV Order.  IMNET will provide other service only on an  agreed-upon  basis
and will  accept  full  payment  for such  service in  accordance  with the then
current  warranty  service  schedule  of  Licensee,  or as  otherwise  agreed in
advance.

         11.4 Changes in  Specifications.  Subject to other  provisions  herein,
including  Section 6,  Licensee  reserves the right,  on 30 day notice,  to make
changes in Equipment and  specifications  without any  obligation to incorporate
those changes in any MegaSAR Products previously delivered to IMNET.

         11.5  Warranty  May  be  Void  in  Certain  Circumstances.   THE  ABOVE
WARRANTIES  DO NOT EXTEND AND SHALL NOT APPLY TO:  MegaSAR  Products  which have
been repaired or modified by third parties without prior written  approval or by
IMNET not in compliance with Licensee approved procedures and practices. MegaSAR
Products  subjected  to  accident,  neglect  or  misuse,  to  unusual  physical,
environmental  or electrical  stress or MegaSAR  Products  improperly  installed
including interconnection to foreign equipment.

         11.6 Limitations on Warranty. THE FOREGOING WARRANTIES AND REMEDIES ARE
MADE ONLY TO AND FOR THE BENEFIT OF IMNET,  ARE EXCLUSIVE,  AND ARE EXPRESSLY IN
LIEU OF ALL OTHER  WARRANTIES,  EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED,  INCLUDING  WARRANTIES  OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR  PURPOSE.  LICENSEE NEITHER ASSUMES
NOR  AUTHORIZES  ANY  OTHER  PERSON  TO ASSUME  FOR IT ANY  OTHER  LIABILITY  IN
CONNECTION   WITH  THE  SALES,   INSTALLATION   OR  USE  OF  ITS  PRODUCTS.   NO
REPRESENTATION  OR  OTHER  AFFIRMATION  OF FACT  INCLUDING  BUT NOT  LIMITED  TO
STATEMENTS  REGARDING CAPACITY,  SUITABILITY FOR USE OR PERFORMANCE OF PRODUCTS,
WHETHER MADE BY IMNET  EMPLOYEES OR  OTHERWISE,  WHICH IS NOT  CONTAINED IN THIS
AGREEMENT,  SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A WARRANTY BY LICENSEE FOR ANY PURPOSE OR GIVE
RISE TO ANY LIABILITY OF LICENSEE WHATSOEVER. NEITHER IMNET NOR LICENSEE WARRANT
THAT USE OF MEGASAR PRODUCTS WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE.

         11.7  Limitation  on Liability.  NEITHER IMNET NOR LICENSEE  SHALL HAVE
LIABILITY  FOR  SPECIAL,  INCIDENTAL  OR  CONSEQUENTIAL  DAMAGES,  ARISING  FROM
OPERATION OF MEGASAR PRODUCTS, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.



341063.4
                                       16

<PAGE>



12.      FURTHER LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY

         12.1 EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY  PROVIDED  HEREIN,  NEITHER IMNET NOR LICENSEE
SHALL BE  LIABLE  FOR ANY LOSS OR  DAMAGE  CLAIMED  TO HAVE  RESULTED  FROM USE,
OPERATION,  OR PERFORMANCE OF THE MEGASAR PRODUCTS AND REGARDLESS OF THE FORM OF
ACTION,  EXCEPT  FOR LOSS OR  DAMAGE  CAUSED  BY THE SOLE  GROSS  NEGLIGENCE  OF
LICENSEE.

         12.2 IN NO EVENT SHALL  LICENSEE OR IMNET BE LIABLE TO THE OTHER OR ITS
END-USER  CUSTOMERS FOR (i) ANY SPECIAL,  INDIRECT,  INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES;  (ii) ANY DAMAGES RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS; OR (iii)
ANY CLAIM,  WHETHER IN CONTRACT OR TORT,  THAT AROSE MORE THAN ONE YEAR PRIOR TO
INSTITUTION OF SUIT THEREON, EVEN IF LICENSEE WAS ADVISED,  KNEW, OR SHOULD HAVE
KNOWN OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.

         12.3 THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY SHALL BE EFFECTIVE, EVEN IF
THE REMEDIES  PROVIDED  HEREIN ARE JUDICIALLY  DEEMED TO FAIL IN THEIR ESSENTIAL
PURPOSE.  IMNET'S AND  LICENSEE'S  LIABILITY  RELATING TO PERFORMANCE OF MEGASAR
PRODUCTS  SHALL IN NO EVENT  EXCEED THE PURCHASE  PRICE OF THE MEGASAR  PRODUCTS
PURCHASED.


13.      DATA AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS

         13.1 IMNET to Honor Licensee Rights.  Licensee may supply data relating
to MegaSAR  Products,  portions of which are  proprietary and will be so marked.
IMNET agrees to abide by such markings and agrees it will not reverse  engineer,
disassemble  or  decompile  any MegaSAR  Products in whole or in part.  Licensee
retains for itself exclusively  proprietary rights (other than those retained by
IMNET as to Intellectual Property but including  manufacturing rights) in and to
all designs,  engineering  details and other data pertaining to MegaSAR Products
provided to IMNET, and to all discoveries,  inventions,  patent rights, products
and all other property rights arising out of work done by Licensee.  A copyright
notice of any data by itself does not  constitute or evidence a  publication  or
public disclosure.

         13.2 Notice of Unauthorized Use or Misappropriation.  IMNET will notify
Licensee  in writing of any  unauthorized  use or  misappropriation  of Licensee
proprietary  data and will  cooperate in any action taken by Licensee to recover
or protect Licensee proprietary data.


14.      TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES

         14.1 IMNET Acknowledges  Trademarks and Trade Names. IMNET concedes and
recognizes the rights of Licensee to, and shall have no right or license in, the
trademarks  or trade names used with or affixed to any MegaSAR  Products,  other
than  "MegaSAR",  as to which IMNET  retains the  interest  specified at Exhibit
1.10.  IMNET  specifically  agrees to refrain  from  using such  phrase or other
trademarks or trade names as a part of IMNET's (or

341063.4
                                       17

<PAGE>



such  reseller)  name  or  mark  or in any  other  manner  which  would  cause a
reasonable  person to infer that IMNET (or such  reseller)  has any  affiliation
with Licensee Equipment and licensed Software.  IMNET further agrees that it and
its  resellers  will not affix any  Licensee  trademarks  or  tradenames  to any
product other than MegaSAR Products. IMNET shall be free to market product lines
other than those of Licensee.


15.      TERMINATION

         15.1 Right to Terminate. Either party shall have the right to terminate
this  Agreement  upon the  occurrence of any of the following  events which each
agrees will constitute essential and substantial violation of this Agreement and
just cause for such termination:

                  15.1.1 The other  party  neglects or fails to make any payment
         due and such  payment is not made within 15 days after  written  notice
         thereof has been given to the defaulting party.

                  15.1.2 The other party  defaults in any  material  obligation,
         other  than a  payment,  hereunder,  which  default  has not been cured
         within 30 days  after  written  notice  thereof  has been  given to the
         defaulting party.

                  15.1.3 The other party (i) assigns  this  Agreement  or any of
         its rights  hereunder  except as  provided in this  Agreement;  (ii) is
         adjudged a bankrupt,  makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors,
         or a receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or similar officer is appointed to
         take charge of all or part of its property; (iii) ceases to conduct its
         business  as a going  concern  or in the  normal  course  of  business,
         including entering into a composition for the benefit of creditors;  or
         (iv)  neglects  or fails to perform or observe  any of its  existing or
         future essential  obligations  hereunder,  and such condition(s) is not
         remedied  within 30 days after written notice thereof has been given to
         the defaulting party.

         15.2   Termination   Does  not  Affect   Pre-Termination   Obligations.
Termination  of this Agreement  shall not affect either party's  pre-termination
obligations  hereunder.  Any such termination  shall be without prejudice to the
enforcement of any undischarged obligations existing at the time of termination.
The provisions of Articles 2.3, 2.4, 4.4, 6.15, 9.8, 10.3, 10.5, 11, 12, 13, 15,
17, and 20  through 25 shall  survive  termination.  Article 1 shall  survive as
necessary to interpret the other surviving Articles.

         15.3 Termination by IMNET Hereunder -- Effect on Licenses. In the event
IMNET  terminates this Agreement  pursuant to Section 15.1, the licenses granted
pursuant to Articles 2 and 3 hereof shall also terminate  concurrently with this
Agreement.

         15.4 Liquidated Damages. In the event that IMNET breaches the exclusive
manufacturing  rights granted  hereunder,  or IMNET  materially  defaults on its
payment obligations for MegaSAR Products, this agreement will be terminated upon
Licensee's  notice to IMNET as set forth  above,  and IMNET will pay to Licensee
(upon  such  termination),  as  liquidated  damages,  a sum  equal to  $4,000.00
multiplied by 250 less the number of Units sold.

341063.4
                                       18

<PAGE>





16.      TRAINING

         Licensee's  customer  training  courses  shall be open to attendance by
IMNET, IMNET's distributors and end-user customers at Licensee's then-prevailing
rates.  The time and  location for all  training  courses  shall be specified by
Licensee.   IMNET,   IMNET'S  distributor  and/or  IMNET's  customers  shall  be
responsible  for all  expenses of  training  to include,  but not be limited to,
travel, lodging, subsistence and miscellaneous expenses.


17.      APPLICABLE LAW

         17.1 Georgia Law to Apply.  IMNET and licensee  acknowledge  that IMNET
currently has its principal  offices in Atlanta,  Georgia,  U.S.A.  Furthermore,
Licensee  acknowledges  that IMNET has executed this Agreement in Georgia.  This
Agreement and the  obligation  of the parties  hereunder  shall be  interpreted,
construed  and  enforced  in  accordance  with the laws of the State of Georgia,
U.S.A.

         17.2  Export.  Each party  agrees  that it will  comply with all United
States  laws and  regulations  regarding  re-export  licenses  or the control or
regulation of  re-exportation  of technical  data  including  MegaSAR  Products.
Licensee  and IMNET  agree not to  transfer  or license  any  technical  data or
MegaSAR  Products  covered by this  Agreement  to any party if such  transfer or
license would  constitute a violation of any laws or  regulations  of the United
States.


18.      INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS

         The relationship of IMNET and Licensee established by this Agreement is
that of independent  contractors,  and nothing contained in this Agreement shall
be  construed  to (i) give  either  party the power to direct  and  control  the
day-to-day  activities of the other;  (ii)  constitute  the parties as partners,
joint  ventures,  co-owners or otherwise  as  participants  in a joint or common
undertaking;  or (iii)  allow the other to create or assume  any  obligation  on
behalf of the other for any purpose whatsoever. Performance by each party of all
sales and other agreements between each party and its customers are that party's
exclusive  responsibility  and shall have no effect on such party's  obligations
under this  Agreement.  Each party shall be solely  responsible  for,  and shall
indemnify  and hold either  party free and  harmless  from,  any and all claims,
damages or lawsuits (including  attorney's fees) arising out of the acts of that
party, its employees or its agents.


19.      ASSIGNMENT

         19.1 Neither party may assign this  Agreement nor any interest  herein,
in whole or in part without the prior written consent of the other party,  which
will not be unreasonably  withheld or delayed. Each acknowledges and agrees that
the other may assign its rights and obligations to another  corporation  without
the consent of the other party:


341063.4
                                       19

<PAGE>



                  19.1.1  in  connection  with  the  sale  of  substantially
         all  of the transferring party's assets; or

                  19.1.2   in connection with a change in ownership of the
         transferring company.

         19.2 A transfer  or  assignment  shall be deemed  agreed to only if the
transferee assumes all of the transferring party's obligations hereunder. In the
latter event, the transferor shall not be relieved of such obligations.

         19.3 Any  assignment  or transfer  of this  Agreement  or any  interest
herein to a Current Customer, Direct Competitor,  HCIS Vendor, or Provider shall
be valid only with IMNET's prior written consent, which will not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed.


20.      SOLICITATION OF EMPLOYEES

         Neither IMNET nor Licensee  shall solicit the service or hire employees
of the other during the Term or for a period of one year after the expiration of
the Term.  Nothing in this Section  shall  prevent  either  party from  offering
employment  to any employee of the other party who  responds to a publicly  made
advertisement of employment,  provided that such advertisement is not an attempt
to solicit, entice, or induce any employee of the other party to seek employment
with the  advertising  party or otherwise  circumvent  the  advertising  party's
obligations hereunder.


21.      NOTICES

         Notice shall be deemed given (i) when received, if hand delivered and a
receipt is executed;  or (ii) when receipt is executed,  if given in writing and
actually  delivered  or  deposited in the United  States mail in  registered  or
certified form with return receipt  requested postage paid. All notices shall be
given to the notified  party at the addresses  set forth below.  The address for
notice may be changed by notice.

         If to IMNET:                   Mr. Kenneth D. Rardin
                                        IMNET Systems, Inc.
                                        8601 Dunwoody Place
                                        Suite 420
                                        Atlanta, Georgia 30350

                  with a copy to:       T. Clark Fitzgerald III, Esq.
                                        Arnall Golden & Gregory
                                        1201 West Peachtree Street, Suite 2800
                                        Atlanta, Georgia  30309-3450


341063.4
                                       20

<PAGE>



         If to MTC or SoftNet:          c/o SoftNet Systems, Inc.
                                        717 Forest Avenue
                                        Lake Forest, Illinois  60045
                                        Attention:  Mr. John I. Jellinek

                  with a copy to:       Gary Mostow, Esq.
                                        Pederson & Houpt
                                        161 N. Clark St., Suite 3100
                                        Chicago, Illinois  60601

22.      DISPUTE RESOLUTION

         22.1 Disputes to be Referred to Chief Executive Officers.  If a dispute
arises  hereunder,  then IMNET and Licensee each agree that, prior to commencing
litigation or termination of this  Agreement,  such party will cause the dispute
to be  brought  to the  attention  of its  chief  executive  officer.  The chief
executive officer of IMNET is currently  Kenneth D. Rardin.  The chief executive
officer of Licensee is currently John I. Jellinek.

         22.2  Arbitration.  All  disputes,   controversies,   claims,  etc.  in
connection with this Agreement or any breach thereof shall be finally settled by
arbitration in Atlanta,  Georgia,  applying Georgia law, conducted in accordance
with the then-current Commercial Arbitration Rules (the "Rules") of the American
Arbitration  Association.  Either party may give notice, in accordance with this
Agreement,  of its intention to submit such dispute, etc. to arbitration,  which
shall take place before a single arbitrator experienced in the software industry
and appointed by the American  Arbitration  Association  in accordance  with the
Rules (the "Arbitrator").  Each party to the arbitration is to pay an equal part
of all costs,  including any deposits,  associated with the arbitration,  except
that each party shall be responsible for its own attorneys'  fees.  Licensee and
IMNET agree that all legal action or proceeding  with respect to this  Agreement
shall be finally  settled by arbitration  and the enforcement of the arbitration
provisions  of this  Agreement  may be  initiated  in the courts of the State of
Georgia (including the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Georgia).  Licensee and IMNET hereby subject  themselves to and accept that with
regard to any such  action of law or in equity,  the  prevailing  party shall be
entitled to be reimbursed for reasonable attorney's fees, costs and expenses.

         22.3  Final  and  Binding  Determination.  The  determinations  of such
Arbitrator  will be final and binding upon the parties to the  arbitration,  and
judgment upon the award  rendered by the  Arbitrator may be entered in any court
having  jurisdiction,  or  application  may be made to such court for a judicial
acceptance  of the award and an order of  enforcement,  as the case may be.  The
Arbitrator  shall set forth with specificity the grounds for the decision in the
award.


23.      INTERPRETATION

         This Agreement  will not be construed  against either IMNET or Licensee
by reason of the authorship of any provisions hereof.



341063.4
                                       21

<PAGE>



24.      LEGAL FEES

         If any  action  at law or in  equity,  such as a suit for  damages,  is
necessary to enforce the terms of this Agreement,  the prevailing party shall be
entitled to reasonable  attorney's  fees,  costs and expenses in addition to any
other relief to which such prevailing party may be entitled.


25.      GENERAL

         This  Agreement,  with  Exhibits,  and the  Distributor  Agreement,  as
amended,  constitute the entire agreement and understanding,  and supersedes all
prior proposals,  negotiations and communications,  oral or written, between the
parties  relating to the subject  matter  hereof.  This Agreement may be amended
only expressly and in writing signed by the duly authorized  representatives  of
the parties.  Unless  otherwise  stated,  all prices and dollar  amounts in this
Agreement are expressed in U.S. Dollars.

         IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the undersigned  have caused this Agreement to be
executed on their behalf as of the day and year first above written.



IMNET:                                    LICENSEE  (SoftNet and MTC):

                                          SOFTNET:

IMNET Systems, Inc.                       SoftNet Systems, Inc.


By:    ____________________________       By:  ___________________________
Kenneth D. Rardin, President                   Martin A. Koehler, Vice President


                                          MTC:

                                          Micrographic Technology Corporation


                                          By:   ___________________________
                                          Name: ___________________________
                                          Title:___________________________



341063.4
                                       22

<PAGE>



                                    EXHIBITS


Exhibit 1.4                Computation of Cost (excludes amortization of
                           License Fees)
Exhibit 1.5                Current Customers
Exhibit 1.10               Intellectual Property
Exhibit 1.15               Note
Exhibit 1.19               Stock Pledge and Security Agreement
Exhibit 6.3                Quotation for Development Services
Exhibit 6.4                Computation of IMNET's Cost
Exhibit 6.12               Payment Terms
Exhibit 7.1                Second Amendment to Distributor Agreement
Exhibit 7.2                Settlement Amounts

341063.4
                                        i

<PAGE>



                                   EXHIBIT 1.4

                         COMPUTATION OF LICENSEE'S COST

"Cost shall be defined as the sum of the following:

1.        Bill of Materials required to assemble one (1) MegaSAR Product

2.        Standard Cost of Labor and Overhead

"Labor" shall  include  overhead  applied as a percentage  of direct labor.  The
Calculation  of Cost shall be subject to review and approved by IMNET.  If IMNET
and Licensee  cannot agree on the  Calculation  of Cost,  both parties  agree to
submit  such  calculation  to the  certified  public  accounting  firm of Arthur
Andersen,  or in the event of its refusal or inability  to act,  then to another
"Big Six" accounting firm mutually agreeable to IMNET and Licensee,  or, failing
such  agreement,  then to an accounting  firm selected by Arthur  Andersen.  The
determination  by the  arbitrator  of the  calculation  shall be binding on both
parties.

341063.4
                                        i

<PAGE>
                     [      ] - CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT REQUESTED

                                   EXHIBIT 1.5

                                Current Customers

                                  CONFIDENTIAL


Advisoft Consulting
Attn:  Mr. Pierre Awad
3 Boulevard Ney
75018 Paris France

[     ]

Bell & Howell
360 Hanlan Road
Woodbridge, Ontario
L4L8Z65 Canada

[     ]

Cerner Corporation
Attn:  Angie
2800 Rockcreek Parkway
Kansas City, Missouri  64117

[     ]

Datacom Imaging Systems
545 Wellington Street
Toronto, Ontario
Canada  MSV 1G3

[    ]
Emory Clinic
Attn:  Sandra Bryant
Attn:  Theron Fulton
1365 Clifton Road, N.E.
Atlanta, Georgia  30322

[    ]

IDX Systems Corporation
Attn:  Linda
1400 Shelburne Road
P.O. Box C-1070
Burlington, Vermont  05402-1070

[      ]

Mint
Attn:  A.C. Vantilburg
Antwerpseweg 1
2803 PB Gouda
NL  Holland

McLaren Health Care Corp.
Attn:  Cynthia Kerchmar
401 S. Ballenger Highway
Flint, Michigan  48532-3685

Phamis Incorporated
401 Second Avenue South
Suite 200
Seattle, Washington  98104-2837

[     ]

Software AG of Austria
Attn:  Alfred Gerhold
Cobenzglasse 32
1190 Vienna Austria

Software AG of Belgium
Bid Du Souverain 360
Vorstiaan, Bruxelles 1160
Brussel  Belgium

Software AG of Far East
Shinjuku L Tower, 7F
1-6-1 Nishi-Shinjuku
Tokyo  Japan

Software AG of France
Avenue De Rhodanie
CH-1007 Lausanne
France

[     ]

<PAGE>
                                  EXHIBIT 1.10

                              INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

1.        Patents

          a)       Patent No. 5,367,382 "On Line Microfilm  Storage and
                   Retrieval System", dated November 22, 1994

          b)       Patent No. 4,364,529, "Leader Pin", dated December 2, 1982

          c)       Patent Application, Serial No. 08/51,800, "An Improved
                   Microfilm Storage and Retrieval System, filed November 22,
                   1995

2.        Trademarks

          a)       MegaSAR(R), registration number 1,887,812, registered April
                   14, 1995

3.        Source Code

          a)       FILM OSS

          b)       diagnostic routines (both manufacturer and customer level)

          c)       megasar.exe modules

                   i)      motion control

                   ii)     scanning

                   iii)    video

                   iv)     communication with OSS

                   v)      error recovery

                   vi)     status/error message reporting

                   vii)    initialization

                   viii)   interface module for Galil controller board set

4.        Executables

          a)       all of the above, plus

          b)       third party compression software

341063.4
                                        i

<PAGE>




          c)       third party motion control software (Galil drivers)

5.        Third Party Hardware

          a)       Sensors

          b)       Galil motion controller board

          c)       amplifiers

6.        Documentation

          a)       multiple levels of assembly and sub-assembly [joints?]
                   (manufacturing has a list of all the IMNET drawings

          b)       PC board artwork, bills of materials

          c)       documentation relating the third party "stuffing" of PC
                   boards

          d)       assembly procedures

          e)       documentation relating to "bring it up" and "test and debug"
                   procedures

          f)       copies of user and technical documentation for MegaSAR and
                   for third party hardware and software

MTC shall be responsible for all third party licenses.

341063.4
                                       ii

<PAGE>



                                  EXHIBIT 1.15

                                 PROMISSORY NOTE

$2,909,627                                                         July 12, 1996

          FOR  VALUE  RECEIVED,  each  of  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.,  a New  York
corporation  ("SoftNet"),  and SoftNet's wholly-owned  subsidiary,  Micrographic
Technology  Corporation,  a  Delaware  corporation  ("MTC")  (collectively,  the
"Maker"),  jointly and severally  promise to pay to the order of IMNET  Systems,
Inc., a Delaware  corporation,  ("Holder"),  at 8601 Dunwoody Place,  Suite 420,
Atlanta, Georgia 30350, or, at the Holder's option at such other place as may be
designated  from time to time by the Holder,  the  principal  sum of Two Million
Nine  Hundred  Nine  Thousand  Six Hundred  Twenty-Seven  and  No/100th  Dollars
($2,909,627) in lawful money of the United States of America,  first to occur of
(i) any sale or sales by SoftNet of shares of IMNET  Common Stock (to the extent
of such  proceeds) (in which event the proceeds from sales of IMNET Common Stock
shall be applied first against amounts due hereunder); or (ii) July 11, 1997.

          Interest shall accrue on the unpaid  principal amount of this Note for
each  day from  and  including  the  earlier  of (i) the  date on which  SoftNet
delivers to Holder an executed  representation  letter in form  satisfactory  to
Holder that confirms  SoftNet's  ability to sell its stock in Holder pursuant to
Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended;  or (ii) two (2) business
days after  Holder's  release  of its 1996  fiscal  year  earnings  and  audited
financial statements,  until paid at a per annum rate (calculated for the actual
number of days elapsed over a year consisting of 365 or 366 days as the case may
be)  equal to (i) so long as no Event of  Default  (defined  below)  shall  have
occurred and be continuing,  the Note Rate and (ii) otherwise,  the Post Default
Rate.  The "Note Rate" means the Prime Rate,  as  published  daily in the "Money
Rates"  table of The Wall  Street  Journal.  The "Post  Default  Rate" means two
percent  (2%) over the Note Rate.  Each  change in the Prime  Rate shall  become
effective on the business day on which the change in the Prime Rate is published
in The Wall Street  Journal.  On the due date unpaid  principal  balance and all
accrued but unpaid interest shall be paid in full. In no event shall the rate of
interest on this Note exceed the rate of interest that, if exceeded could, under
applicable law,  result in (i) civil or criminal  penalties being imposed on the
Holder or (ii) the Holder being unable to enforce  payment of (or if  collected,
to retain)  all or part of such  amount or the  interest  payable  thereon  (the
"Highest Lawful Rate").

          If any  installment of this Note shall fall due on a Saturday,  Sunday
or a banking holiday, such installment shall be paid on the next day that is not
a Saturday,  Sunday or banking  holiday  together with interest  thereon for the
additional days at the applicable rate.

          The Holder of this Note may declare all indebtedness evidenced by this
Note to be immediately due and payable  whenever such Holder has the right to do
so under any security agreement or other agreement,  now or hereafter in effect,
pursuant to which payment of the indebtedness  evidenced by this Note is secured
or,  irrespective  of the terms or existence of any such  security  agreement or
other  agreement,  upon the  happening of any of the  following  events (each an
"Event of Default"): (1) nonpayment when and as the same becomes due, whether by
acceleration or otherwise, of principal of, or interest on, this Note after five
(5) days' written

341063.4
                                        i

<PAGE>



notice  or;  (2)  default  by the Maker in the  payment  or  performance  of any
obligation,  term or  condition,  or there  shall  occur an event of  default or
equivalent  event,  under any other  agreement  between the  undersigned and the
Holder;  (3) the filing by or against  the Maker of a request  or  petition  for
liquidation, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment of debts, adjudication as a
bankrupt, relief as a debtor or other relief under the bankruptcy, insolvency or
similar  laws of the  United  States or any state or  territory  thereof  or any
foreign jurisdiction,  now or hereafter in effect; (4) the making of any general
assignment by the Maker for the benefit of creditors;  or (5) the appointment of
a receiver or trustee  for the Maker or for any assets of the Maker,  including,
without limitation,  the appointment of, or taking possession by, a "custodian",
as defined in the Federal Bankruptcy Code.

          No failure by the Holder to exercise, and no delay in exercising,  any
right or remedy  hereunder  shall  operate  as a waiver  thereof,  nor shall any
single or  partial  exercise  by the  Holder  of any  right or remedy  hereunder
preclude  any other or further  exercise  thereof or the  exercise  of any other
right or remedy.  The rights and remedies of the Holder as herein  specified are
cumulative  and not  exclusive of any other rights or remedies  which the Holder
may otherwise have.

          No  modifications,   rescission,   waiver,  forbearance,   release  or
amendment  of any  provision  of this  Note  shall be made,  except by a written
agreement duly executed by the Maker and the Holder.

         THE  MAKER  HEREBY  WAIVES  DILIGENCE,  PRESENTMENT,  PROTEST,  DEMAND,
DISHONOR AND NONPAYMENT OF THIS NOTE.

          This Note shall be construed  under,  and governed by, the laws of the
State of Georgia,  without  regard to principles of conflicts of laws. The Maker
agrees to pay all costs and expenses  incurred by the Holder in  enforcing  this
Note,  including,  without  limitation,   reasonable  attorney's  fees  actually
incurred.

          Payment of this Note is secured  pursuant to that certain Stock Pledge
And Security Agreement,  dated of even date herewith,  between the Maker and the
Holder (the "Stock Pledge Agreement") and by any other collateral granted in any
security  agreement  or other  documents  as may have been or may  hereafter  be
executed in favor of the Holder by the Maker of this Note or any other party.

                              MAKERS:

                              SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.


                              By:  _____________________________________
                                   Martin A. Koehler, Vice President

                                              [CORPORATE SEAL]



341063.4
                                       ii

<PAGE>



                               MICROGRAPHIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION


                               By:  _____________________________________
                               Its: _____________________________________

                                                [CORPORATE SEAL]

341063.4
                                       iii

<PAGE>



                                  EXHIBIT 1.19

                       STOCK PLEDGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

         THIS  STOCK  PLEDGE  AND  SECURITY   AGREEMENT,   (this  "Stock  Pledge
Agreement"),  made and  entered  into as of the 12th day of July,  1996,  by and
among SOFTNET SYSTEMS,  INC., a New York  corporation  ("SoftNet") and SoftNet's
wholly-owned  subsidiary,   Micrographic  Technology  Corporation,   a  Delaware
corporation  ("MTC")  (collectively,  "Pledgor"),  and IMNET  SYSTEMS,  INC.,  a
Delaware corporation ("Secured Party").

                              W I T N E S S E T H:

         WHEREAS,  SoftNet  owns  277,770  shares of the issued and  outstanding
Common Stock (the "Stock") of Secured Party; and

         WHEREAS,  Pledgor is  indebted  to  Secured  Party in the amount of Two
Million Nine Hundred Nine Thousand Six Hundred Twenty-Seven Dollars ($2,909,627)
(the "Loan"); and

         WHEREAS,  Pledgor has simultaneously herewith executed and delivered to
Secured  Party a  Promissory  Note  (the  "Note")  dated as of the date  hereof,
evidencing the Loan; and

         WHEREAS,  Pledgor and the Secured  Party have entered into that certain
Manufacturing and Distribution License Agreement, dated as of July 12, 1996, and
the related  Second  Amendment  to  Distributor  Agreement,  and  certain  other
documents  (collectively,  the  "Agreement"),  whereby  Pledgor  has  agreed  to
undertake  certain  actions for the benefit of, and make  payments  to,  Secured
Party from and after the date hereof; and

         WHEREAS, in order to induce the Secured Party to accept the Note and to
enter into the Agreement, Pledgor has agreed to secure its obligations under the
Note and the  Agreement  with 77,200  shares of the Stock and proceeds  from the
sale thereof by Pledgor (collectively, the "Collateral").

         NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration  of the  covenants  and  agreements
contained  in  this  Stock  Pledge  Agreement,   and  other  good  and  valuable
consideration,  the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged,  it
is hereby agreed as follows:

         1.  Stock  Pledge  and  Creation  of  Security  Interest.  Concurrently
herewith  Pledgor has  delivered  the  Collateral  to Secured  Party,  with each
certificate   accompanied  by  fully  executed  stock  powers,  with  signatures
guaranteed.  Pledgor hereby pledges,  hypothecates,  assigns, transfers and sets
over and continues to pledge,  hypothecate,  assign,  transfer and set over unto
Secured  Party,  and hereby  grants and  continues  to grant to Secured  Party a
security  interest in, the Collateral to secure  performance  and payment of the
obligations and indebtedness of Pledgor to Secured Party evidenced by the Note.

         2.   Representations,   Warranties   and   Covenants.   Pledgor  hereby
represents,  warrants and covenants in favor of the Secured Party that:  Pledgor
owns and has full power and  authority to pledge and assign the  Collateral  and
will  have  such  authority  with  respect  to  any  substituted  or  additional
Collateral that may be hereafter  delivered to the Secured Party; the Collateral
is not subject to the  interest  of any third  person  (other than the  security
interest granted hereunder);

341063.4
                                        i

<PAGE>



Pledgor will defend the  Collateral  against the claims and demands of all third
persons (other than the security interest granted hereunder);  the Collateral is
and will be genuine,  free from  forgery,  counterfeit,  and all adverse  liens,
claims,  conditions precedent,  conditions  subsequent,  and encumbrances (other
than the security  interest  granted  hereunder);  and Pledgor will  immediately
deliver any  certificates,  stock powers or  instruments  evidencing  any of the
Collateral to the Secured Party to be held by the Secured Party hereunder.

         3. Further  Assurances.  Pledgor shall do, make,  procure,  execute and
deliver all acts, things,  writings,  and assurances as the Secured Party may at
any time request to protect,  perfect,  assure or enforce its interests,  rights
and remedies  created by, provided in or arising from this Agreement,  including
without  limitation  the  execution  of blank  transfer  powers and any  Uniform
Commercial  Code  financing  statements  deemed  necessary or appropriate by the
Secured Party and any applications,  certificates or other documents the Secured
Party may request in  connection  with the  obtaining of any consent,  approval,
qualification  or  authorization  of any  governmental  authority  necessary  or
appropriate  for the  effective  exercise of any rights or  remedies  under this
Agreement.

         4. Event of  Default.  The  failure  of  Pledgor  to make any  required
payment  when due under the  Promissory  Note or any other  indebtedness  to the
Secured Party will constitute a default by Pledgor under this Agreement  (herein
also referred to as an "Event of Default").

         5. Remedies Upon Event of Default.  Upon the  occurrence of an Event of
Default  hereunder,  the Secured Party may, in its sole  discretion  and without
notice to or demand  upon  Pledgor,  declare  immediately  due and  payable  the
Promissory  Note  secured  hereby and exercise any one or more of the rights and
remedies  granted  pursuant to this Agreement or provided by law. In furtherance
of the Secured  Party's  rights and  remedies  hereunder  and not in  limitation
thereof,  the Secured Party shall have full power and authority to sell, assign,
transfer and deliver the whole of the Collateral,  or any part thereof,  in such
order as the Secured  Party may elect,  at public or private sale in  accordance
with the Georgia Uniform  Commercial Code, or other applicable law or agreement,
at such price or prices, and upon such terms and conditions as the Secured Party
in its sole discretion may determine,  and to apply the proceeds remaining after
deducting all costs of sale, in payment or reduction of the  Promissory  Note in
such order as the Secured Party, in its sole discretion,  may determine.  At any
such sale, the Secured Party may, if it be the highest  bidder,  purchase any or
all of the Collateral so sold, free from any right of redemption in Pledgor, and
may apply any  unpaid  portion of the  Promissory  Note on account of or in full
satisfaction of the purchase  price.  Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default
hereunder,  the Secured Party also shall have the right to surrender,  redeem or
collect any of the Collateral  and apply the proceeds  thereof to the Promissory
Note in such order as the Secured Party, in its sole discretion,  may determine.
If any  notification to Pledgor of an intended  disposition by the Secured Party
of any of the Collateral is required by law, such notification, if mailed, shall
be deemed  reasonably and properly given if mailed at least ten (10) days before
such disposition. For the purposes aforesaid, the Secured Party is authorized in
Pledgor's  name to sign and execute any  transfer,  conveyance  or instrument in
writing which may be necessary or lawful in the premises.

         6.  Additional  Rights of Secured  Party upon Event of Default.  At any
time after an Event of Default has occurred, the Secured Party in its name or in
the name of its nominee or of Pledgor may, in its  discretion and without notice
to or demand upon  Pledgor:  (l) collect by legal  proceedings  or otherwise all
dividends, interest, principal payments and other sums now

341063.4
                                       ii

<PAGE>



or hereafter  payable upon or on account of the  Collateral;  (2) enter into any
renewal, modification, extension, substitution, reorganization, deposit, merger,
or consolidation agreement, or any agreement in any way relating to or affecting
the Collateral,  and in connection therewith may deposit or surrender control of
such  Collateral  thereunder,   accept  other  property  in  exchange  for  such
Collateral  and do and perform such acts and things as it may deem  proper,  and
any money or property  received in exchange  for such  Collateral  or  otherwise
shall be either applied to the Promissory Note or thereafter held by the Secured
Party as Collateral pursuant to the provisions hereof in a non-interest  bearing
or cash  collateral  account  unless  and  until  such  application  will  cause
Promissory  Note to be paid in  full;  (3) make any  compromise,  settlement  or
release  the Secured  Party deems  desirable  or proper  with  reference  to the
Collateral;  (4) insure,  process and  preserve  the  Collateral;  (5) cause the
Collateral to be  transferred  to its name or to the name of its nominee with or
without  disclosing  that such  Collateral  is subject to the lien and  security
interest  hereunder;  (6) exercise as to such Collateral all the rights,  powers
and remedies of an owner; (7) perform any obligation of Pledgor  hereunder;  and
(8) send any Collateral,  whether pledged or transferred to the Secured Party by
Pledgor or some other Person,  to the Persons who pledged such  Collateral or to
any other  Person or agent for  collection,  sale,  redemption  or  substitution
without liability for loss in transit or for any act or default of the Person to
whom such  Collateral may be sent,  except Secured Party shall be liable for the
loss or wrongful  transfer of the  Collateral  resulting  from the  negligent or
intentional  misconduct of Secured Party or its agents,  all without  releasing,
impairing,  affecting or  lessening  the  liability of Pledgor,  but the Secured
Party shall have no obligation to do any of the foregoing. In furtherance of the
foregoing,   Pledgor   hereby   appoints  the  Secured  Party  as  their  lawful
attorney-in-fact  to carry out the  foregoing  acts  including  the authority to
redeem or collect and give full receipt for any  distributions  declared,  paid,
payable, or issued in respect of the Collateral and to endorse Pledgor's name on
any of the  Collateral  and on all  proceeds  therefrom  that may come  into the
Secured Party's possession and to deposit or otherwise collect the same.

         7. Receipt of Cash  Dividends.  Unless and until the  occurrence  of an
Event of Default  hereunder,  Pledgor  shall be  entitled to receive any and all
cash dividends or other cash distributions on the Collateral and/or exercise any
and all voting powers pertaining to any of the Shares (and give written consents
in lieu of voting  thereon)  for all purposes  not  inconsistent  with the terms
hereof. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default hereunder,  the Secured Party
or its nominee may, in its discretion  and upon notice to Pledgor,  exercise all
voting powers pertaining to any and all of the Shares (and give written consents
in lieu of voting  thereon)  and may  exercise  such power in such manner as the
Secured Party, in its sole discretion,  shall  determine,  but such voting power
shall not vest in Secured  Party unless and until  Secured  Party or its nominee
actually  gives notice to Pledgor that the Secured Party has elected to exercise
the same.  The  exercise by the Secured  Party of any of its rights and remedies
under this  paragraph  shall not be deemed a  disposition  of  Collateral  under
Article 9 of the Uniform  Commercial Code nor an acceptance by the Secured Party
of any of the Collateral in satisfaction of the Promissory Note.

         8. Security Interest  Absolute.  This Agreement and the lien,  security
interest and security  title conveyed  hereunder  shall remain in full force and
effect  without  regard to, and shall not be  released,  suspended,  terminated,
modified or otherwise  affected by any  circumstance  or occurrence  whatsoever,
including  without  limitation  any of the  following  (whether  or not  Pledgor
consent  thereto  or have  notice  thereof):  (i) any change in or waiver of the
time,  place or manner of payment,  or any other term, of the Promissory Note or
either  of  the  Promissory  Note,  any  waiver  of or any  renewal,  extension,
increase, amendment or modification of or

341063.4
                                       iii

<PAGE>



addition or  supplement  to or deletion  from,  or any other  action or inaction
under or in respect of, the Promissory  Note or either of the Promissory Note or
any  other  document,  instrument  or  agreement  referred  to  therein  or  any
assignment or transfer of the Promissory Note or either of the Promissory  Note;
(ii) any  bankruptcy,  insolvency,  liquidation  or  other  like  proceeding  or
occurrence  relating to Secured Party; (iii) any failure of the Secured Party to
exercise any right or remedy  against any Person  other than Pledgor  liable for
the Promissory  Note;  (iv) any other act or failure to act by the Secured Party
which may adversely affect Pledgor;  or (v) any other  circumstance  which might
otherwise  constitute a defense against,  or a legal or equitable  discharge of,
Pledgor's  liability under this Agreement or the Secured Party's lien,  security
interest or security title hereunder.

         9.  Release  of  Shares.  So long as no Event  of  Default  shall  have
occurred and be  continuing,  as of the date that a payment of principal is made
under the  Promissory  Note, a number of the Shares  shall be released  from the
pledge  hereunder and  delivered by the Secured Party to Pledgor.  The number of
Shares to be so released shall be calculated by multiplying the number of Shares
held by the Secured Party under the pledge (immediately before the release) by a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the amount of the principal being paid
on that date and the  denominator  of which is the sum of the  numerator and the
principal to be paid in the future.

         10.  Waivers.  Pledgor hereby waives:  (i) notice of acceptance of this
Agreement by the Secured Party;  (ii) notice of presentment,  protest and notice
of dishonor or  non-payment as to the  Promissory  Note or any other  instrument
which evidences the Promissory Note, and (iii) notice of any acceleration of the
Promissory  Note.  Pledgor further waives any right Pledgor may have, by statute
or otherwise  (such as by Official Code of Georgia  Annotated ss.  10-7-24),  to
require that the Secured Party seek recourse first against any other Person,  or
to realize upon any collateral for the Promissory Note other than the Collateral
pledged  hereunder,  as a condition  precedent to enforcing the Secured  Party's
lien,  security  interest  and  security  title  under  this  Agreement  in  the
Collateral.  Pledgor  further  consents  and agrees that,  without  notice to or
consent by Pledgor and without  affecting or impairing  this  Agreement  and the
lien, security interest and security title granted hereunder,  the Secured Party
may  compromise or settle,  or may waive,  amend or supplement in any manner the
provisions of either of the Promissory Note or any other  document,  instrument,
guaranty,  or agreement  relating to or securing the Promissory Note (other than
this Agreement) or may release,  surrender,  exchange,  modify or compromise any
and all collateral  securing the Promissory  Note (other than the Collateral) or
in which the Secured Party may at any time have a lien, or may refuse to enforce
its rights or may make any  compromise or settlement or agreement  therefor,  in
respect of any or all of such collateral.  Pledgor  expressly waives any and all
rights of subrogation,  reimbursement,  indemnity or contribution  and any other
claim  which  Pledgor  may now or  hereinafter  have  against  any other  Person
directly  or  contingently  liable  on the  Promissory  Note  arising  from  the
existence, performance or enforcement of this Agreement by or against Pledgor or
with respect to any of the Collateral.

         11. Taxes and Other Costs.  Pledgor  agrees to pay all taxes,  charges,
liens and assessments against the Collateral, and upon the failure of Pledgor to
do so the Secured  Party,  at its  option,  may pay any of them and shall be the
sole judge of the  legality or  validity  thereof  and the amount  necessary  to
discharge the same. All advances, charges, costs, taxes, liens, assessments, and
expenses,  including reasonable attorney's fees, incurred or paid by the Secured
Party in exercising any right,  power or remedy conferred in this Agreement,  or
in the

341063.4
                                       iv

<PAGE>



enforcement  thereof,  shall become a part of the Promissory Note secured hereby
and shall bear  interest  from the date incurred or paid by Secured Party at the
lesser of (i) the highest rate of interest  Pledgor has contracted to pay to the
Secured  Party under the  Promissory  Note or (ii) the highest rate  permissible
under applicable law.

         12.  Termination.  This  Agreement  and  the  assignment  and  security
interest  conveyed  hereunder  shall  remain in full force and effect until such
time as the Promissory Note have been paid in full.

         13. Rights  Cumulative.  The rights,  powers and remedies  given to the
Secured Party by this Agreement  shall be in addition to all rights,  powers and
remedies  given to the Secured Party by virtue of any statute or rule of law and
all such rights, powers and remedies are cumulative and not alternative, and may
be exercised and enforced  successively  or  concurrently.  Any  forbearance  or
failure or delay by the Secured Party in exercising  any right,  power or remedy
hereunder shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such right, power or remedy, and
any single or partial exercise of any right, power or remedy hereunder shall not
preclude the further exercise thereof;  and every right, power and remedy of the
Secured  Party  hereunder  shall  continue  in full force and effect  until such
right,  power or  remedy is  specifically  waived by an  instrument  in  writing
executed by the Secured Party.

         14.  Miscellaneous.  Words  importing the singular number shall include
the plural number and vice versa,  and any pronoun used shall be deemed to cover
all genders.  "Person" means any  individual,  corporation,  partnership,  joint
venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or
government or any agency or political  subdivision  thereof. The terms "Pledgor"
and "Secured Party" as used in this Agreement shall include,  where  applicable,
the heirs, legal  representatives,  successors and assigns of those parties.  If
any provision  hereof or the  application  thereof to any Person or circumstance
shall  to any  extent  be  invalid  or  unenforceable,  the  remainder  of  this
Agreement,  or the  application of such  provisions to Persons or  circumstances
other than those to which it is invalid or unenforceable,  shall not be affected
thereby,  and each  provision  of this  Agreement  shall be valid  and  shall be
enforced to the fullest extent  permitted by law. The internal laws of the State
of Georgia shall govern the construction of and the interests, rights and duties
of the parties to this Agreement shall be construed  under, and governed by, the
laws of the State of Georgia, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
This Agreement is intended to be an instrument under seal.

         WITNESS the hand and seal of Pledgor as of the 30th day of June, 1996.

                              PLEDGORS:

                              SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.


                              By: _____________________________
                                   Martin A. Koehler, Vice President

                                            [SEAL]



341063.4
                                        v

<PAGE>



                               MICROGRAPHIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION


                               By:   ______________________________
                               Its:  ______________________________

                                              [SEAL]


                               SECURED PARTY:

                               IMNET SYSTEMS, INC.


                               By:  _______________________________
                                    Kenneth D. Rardin, President


341063.4
                                       vi

<PAGE>



                                   EXHIBIT 6.4

                           COMPUTATION OF IMNET'S COST

         "IMNET's  Cost" shall be defined as IMNET's  actual cost to manufacture
the MegaSAR 420, as agreed to by both IMNET and Licensee within thirty (30) days
of the date hereof of this Agreement.  If Licensee and IMNET cannot agree on the
calculation  of IMNET's Cost,  both parties agree to submit such  calculation to
the certified public accounting firm of Arthur Andersen,  or in the event of its
refusal or inability to act, then to another "Big Six"  accounting firm mutually
agreeable  to  IMNET  and  Licensee,  or,  failing  such  agreement,  then to an
accounting firm selected by Arthur Andersen. The determination by the arbitrator
of the calculation shall be binding on both parties.

341063.4
                                        i

<PAGE>



                                  EXHIBIT 6.12

                              IMNET'S PAYMENT TERMS

Payment for MegaSAR Products

40% due on acceptance of an order by Licensee.

30% due on advice from Licensee that the MegaSAR  Products  ordered by IMNET are
ready for shipment.

30% due on successful  completion of acceptance  testing as described in Section
6.13.

341063.4
                                        i

<PAGE>



                                   EXHIBIT 7.1

                               IMNET Systems, Inc.
                               8601 Dunwoody Place
                                    Suite 420
                             Atlanta, Georgia 30350

                    SECOND AMENDMENT TO DISTRIBUTOR AGREEMENT


         THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO DISTRIBUTOR AGREEMENT ("Second
Amendment") is to that certain  Distributor  Agreement  dated March 28, 1993 and
later amended by that certain Amendment to Distributor  Agreement dated June 20,
1996 (the  "Amendment")  and is made  effective the later of the two dates below
written by and between IMNET SYSTEMS, INC. ("IMNET"), with its corporate address
and principal place of business at 8601 Dunwoody Place, Suite 420, Atlanta,  GA,
30350 and SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC. ("SoftNet" or "Distributor"), with its corporate
address at 717 Forest Avenue, Lake Forest, IL 60045.

         WHEREAS,  the above  parties  have  entered  into a  Manufacturing  and
Distribution License Agreement specific to IMNET's MegaSAR; and

         WHEREAS,  the above  parties  mutually  desire to modify  the terms and
conditions of the Distributor  Agreement,  as previously  amended to accommodate
the above agreement;

         NOW,  THEREFORE,  in  consideration of the mutual covenants herein made
and undertaken, IMNET and Distributor,  intending to be legally bound, do hereby
agree to the following:

1.       Distributor will substitute Software licenses in lieu of any commitment
         to  purchase  Equipment  made in the  Amendment  on a dollar for dollar
         basis.

2.       The  following   references  to  "Equipment"   are  stricken  from  the
         Agreement:

         a)       Section 1.3 (definition of "Equipment");

         b)       The second  sentence of Section 2.4 is  stricken  in its
                  entirety  and replaced with the following:

                  "Distributor's  prices for IMNET Software to its customers
                   shall be no less than the prices listed in the IMNET Price
                   List.";

         c)       The final sentence of Section 6.1.2;

         d)       Section 6.1.6 shall be stricken in its entirety;

         e)       Section 14 ("Equipment Warranty") shall be stricken in its
                  entirety.

3.       Sections  3.0 and 5.2 of this  Amendment  shall  be  stricken  in their
         entirety.


341063.4
                                        i

<PAGE>


                                       [    ] - Confidential Treatment Requested

4.       Section 5.3 is amended to delete the words "and Equipment".

5.       SoftNet  provided a Purchase  Order for  Software in an amount equal to
         the  Balance on June 28,  1996.  Payment of the amount of the  Purchase
         Order  shall be in  accordance  with the Note  issued  pursuant  to the
         Manufacturing and Distribution  License  Agreement  executed as of June
         30, 1996 (the "Note").

6.       IMNET shipped the Software specified on the Purchase Order on or before
         June 30, 996.

7.       The parties agree to reconcile  SoftNet's account under the Distributor
         Agreement by making the  payments and issuing the credits  described on
         the  attachment  to this Second  Amendment  (which shall be the same as
         Exhibit 7.2 to the Manufacturing and Distribution  License  Agreement).
         Payments due IMNET from SoftNet  shall be made in  accordance  with the
         terms and conditions of the Note.

8.       In  general,  the  party  performing  services  under  the  Distributor
         Agreement  should be the party  receiving  revenue for those  services;
         however,  services  performed  by IMNET  in the  support  of  SoftNet's
         prospective  customer,  R4 Services,  Inc., will be provided to SoftNet
         for such  customer  free of charge up to a maximum  of [ ],  calculated
         based on the rates used in IMNET's  current  quotation to SoftNet.  Any
         additional  services will be billed to SoftNet at rates as are mutually
         agreed upon.

9.       Unless otherwise herein modified,  changed, deleted or added, all other
         terms and conditions of the Agreement, as amended, remain as originally
         stated.

         IN WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  hereto  have  executed  this SECOND
AMENDMENT TO DISTRIBUTOR AGREEMENT as of the later of the dates below.


IMNET SYSTEMS, INC.                    SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.


By:    _____________________________   By:    _____________________________

Title: _____________________________   Title: _____________________________

Date:    July 12, 1996                 Date:    July 12, 1996



341063.4

                                      ii

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.3
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>LOAN MODIFICATION AGREEMENT
<TEXT>






                         LOAN MODIFICATION AGREEMENT

THIS  AGREEMENT  is made and entered into this ___ day of ______,  1996,  by and
between SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC., a New York Corporation  ("SoftNet"),  COMMUNICATE
DIRECT,  INC.,  an  Illinois  Corporation   ("CDI"),   MICROGRAPHIC   TECHNOLOGY
CORPORATION,  a Delaware Corporation  ("MTC"),  KANSAS  COMMUNICATIONS,  INC., a
Kansas Corporation ("KCI") (SoftNet,  CDI, MTC, and KCI collectively referred to
as "Borrowers") and WEST SUBURBAN BANK ("Bank").

WHEREAS,  Borrowers have executed and delivered to Bank a Revolving  Credit Note
dated  September  15,  1995 (the  "Note") in the  original  principal  amount of
$6,500,000.00  in which each of the  Borrowers  promises  to pay to the order of
Bank the principal amount and interest thereon as more specifically  provided in
the Note; and

WHEREAS,  to secure the repayment of the Borrowers'  obligations under the Note,
each of the  Borrowers  has executed  and  delivered to Bank a Loan and Security
Agreement dated September 15, 1995 (collectively the "Loan Agreements"); and

WHEREAS, to further secure the repayment of the Borrowers' obligations under the
Note,  SoftNet has executed and delivered to Bank a Stock Pledge Agreement dated
September 15, 1995 (the "Pledge  Agreement") whereby SoftNet has pledged 377,770
shares of common stock of IMNET Systems, Inc. in favor of Bank; and

WHEREAS,  Borrowers have  requested that the maximum amount of credit  available
under the Note and the Loan  Agreements be increased to  $9,500,000.00  and that
the Borrowing Base  limitations  set forth in the Loan Agreements be modified in
accordance with the terms hereof; and

WHEREAS,  Bank has agreed to increase the amount of credit  available  under the
Note  and the Loan  Agreements  to  $9,500,000.00  and the  modification  of the
Borrowing Base limitations, subject to the terms and conditions hereof.

NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of Ten ($10.00) Dollars in hand paid and other
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

1. The foregoing  recitals are incorporated  herein by reference as though fully
set forth.  Borrowers represent and warrant that the foregoing recitals are true
and correct.

2. The  terms of the Note are  hereby  amended  to  provide  that the  aggregate
maximum amount of credit  available under the Note (the "Principal Sum") is NINE
MILLION FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND AND NO/100 ($9,500,000.00) DOLLARS.

3. Each of the Loan  Agreements  is hereby  amended to provide  that the maximum
aggregate  principal  balance  of the Loan  shall  not at any time  exceed  NINE
MILLION FIVE HUNDRED  THOUSAND AND NO/100  ($9,500,000.00)  DOLLARS (the "Credit
Limit").

4. Section 2(c) of each of the Loan  Agreements  is hereby  modified by deleting
the following sentence therefrom:

"Notwithstanding  the amount of  Eligible  Inventory,  the  amount of  principal
advanced with respect to the Eligible  Inventory  portion of the Borrowing  Base
shall not exceed the sum of Two Million and No/100 ($2,000,000.00) Dollars.

5. Section 2(c) of each of the Loan Agreements is further modified by adding the
following sentence:

"Notwithstanding  the fair market value of the shares of stock of IMNET Systems,
Inc.  owned by  SoftNet  as  determined  from  time to time by Bank  based  upon
published price quotations, the amount of principal advanced with respect to the
portion  of the  Borrowing  Base  attributable  to the  shares of stock of IMNET
Systems,  Inc. shall not exceed the sum of One Million Five Hundred Thousand and
No/100 ($1,500,000.00) Dollars.

6.  The  terms of the  Loan  Documents  (as  such  term is  defined  in the Loan
Agreements)  are hereby  amended and  modified to comport with the terms of this
instrument to the extent the terms of any of the Loan Documents may be otherwise
inconsistent  with the  terms  hereof.  In all  other  respects,  the  terms and
provisions of the Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect.

7.  Borrowers  hereby  reaffirm all of the terms,  provisions,  warranties,  and
representations  set forth in each of the Loan  Agreements  and the  other  Loan
Documents as modified hereby.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
each of the Borrowers  warrants and  represents  that no event of default exists
under any of the Loan Agreements or any of the other Loan Documents and no event
has occurred or condition exists which with the passage of time or the giving of
notice would or could constitute an event of default.

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  have  entered  into this Loan  Modification
Agreement on the date first above written.


SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


COMMUNICATE DIRECT, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


MICROGRAPHIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


KANSAS COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


WEST SUBURBAN BANK

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.4
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>LOAN MODIFICATION MATURITY EXTENSION
<TEXT>






                           LOAN MODIFICATION AGREEMENT
                          (EXTENSION OF MATURITY DATE)

THIS  AGREEMENT  is made and entered into this ___ day of ______,  1996,  by and
between SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC., a New York Corporation  ("Softnet"),  COMMUNICATE
DIRECT,  INC.,  an  Illinois  Corporation   ("CDI"),   MICROGRAPHIC   TECHNOLOGY
CORPORATION,  a Delaware Corporation  ("MTC"),  KANSAS  COMMUNICATIONS,  INC., a
Kansas Corporation ("KCI") (SoftNet,  CDI, MTC, and KCI collectively referred to
as "Borrowers") and WEST SUBURBAN BANK ("Bank").

WHEREAS,  Borrowers have executed and delivered to Bank a Revolving  Credit Note
dated  September  15,  1995 (the  "Note") in the  original  principal  amount of
S6,500,000.00  in which each of the  Borrowers  promises  to pay to the order of
Bank the principal amount and interest thereon as more specifically  provided in
the Note; and

WHEREAS,  to secure the repayment of the Borrowers'  obligations under the Note,
each of the  Borrowers  has executed  and  delivered to Bank a Loan and Security
Agreement dated September 15, 1995 (collectively the "Loan Agreements"); and

WHEREAS, to further secure the repayment of the Borrowers' obligations under the
Note,  SoftNet has executed and delivered to Bank a Stock Pledge Agreement dated
September 15, 1995 (the "Pledge  Agreement") whereby SoftNet has pledged 377,770
shares  (subsequently  reduced  to  277,770  shares)  of  common  stock of IMNET
Systems, Inc. in favor of Bank; and

WHEREAS,  Borrowers and Bank executed a Loan Modification  Agreement dated March
15,  1996  wherein  the  maximum  amount of  credit  under the Note and the Loan
Agreements was increased to  $9,500,000.00  and the Borrowing  Base  limitations
were modified in accordance with the terms thereof; and

WHEREAS,  the Note (as modified from time to time) is scheduled to mature by its
terms on January 15 , 1997,  and Borrowers have requested that the maturity date
of the Note be extended to April 15 , 1997, and Bank has agreed to so extend the
maturity date of the Note, subject to the terms and conditions hereof.

NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of Ten ($10.00) Dollars in hand paid and other
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

1. The foregoing  recitals are incorporated  herein by reference as though fully
set forth.  Borrowers represent and warrant that the foregoing recitals are true
and correct.

2. The terms of the Note are hereby further amended to provide that the Maturity
Date is extended to April 15 , 1997, on which date the entire principal balance,
all accrued  unpaid  interest,  and all other amounts due under the terms of the
Note and the other Loan Documents  shall be immediately  due and payable without
notice.

3.  The  terms of the  Loan  Documents  (as  such  term is  defined  in the Loan
Agreements)  are hereby  amended and  modified to comport with the terms of this
instrument to the extent the terms of any of the Loan Documents may be otherwise
inconsistent  with the  terms  hereof.  In all  other  respects,  the  terms and
provisions of the Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect.

4.  Borrowers  hereby  reaffirm all of the terms,  provisions,  warranties,  and
representations  set forth in each of the Loan  Agreements  and the  other  Loan
Documents as modified hereby.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
each of the Borrowers  warrants and  represents  that no event of default exists
under any of the Loan Agreements or any of the other Loan Documents and no event
has occurred or condition exists which with the passage of time or the giving of
notice would or could constitute an event of default.

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  have  entered  into this Loan  Modification
Agreement on the date first above written.


SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


COMMUNICATE DIRECT, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


MICROGRAPHIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


KANSAS COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


WEST SUBURBAN BANK

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


<PAGE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.5
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>LOAN MODIFICATION MATURITY EXTENSION
<TEXT>



                           LOAN MODIFICATION AGREEMENT
                          (EXTENSION OF MATURITY DATE)


THIS  AGREEMENT is made and entered into this day of JULY,  1996, by and between
SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC., a New York Corporation  ("SoftNet"),  COMMUNICATE DIRECT,
INC., an Illinois Corporation ("CDI"),  MICROGRAPHIC TECHNOLOGY  CORPORATION,  a
Delaware Corporation ("MTC"), KANSAS COMMUNICATIONS,  INC., a Kansas Corporation
("KCI") (SoftNet, CDI, MTC, and KCI collectively referred to as "Borrowers") and
WEST SUBURBAN BANK ("Bank").

WHEREAS,  Borrowers have executed and delivered to Bank a Revolving  Credit Note
dated  September  15,  1995 (the  "Notes) in the  original  principal  amount of
$6,500,000.00  in which each of the  Borrowers  promises  to pay to the order of
Bank the principal amount and interest thereon as more specifically  provided in
the Note; and

WHEREAS,  to secure the repayment of the Borrowers'  obligations under the Note,
each of the  Borrowers  has executed  and  delivered to Bank a Loan and Security
Agreement dated September 15, 1995 (collectively the "Loan Agreements"); and

WHEREAS, to further secure the repayment of the Borrowers' obligations under the
Note,  SoftNet has executed and delivered to Bank a Stock Pledge Agreement dated
September 15, 1995 (the "Pledge  Agreement") whereby SoftNet has pledged 377,770
shares  (subsequently  reduced  to  277,770  shares)  of common  stock of SPINET
Systems, Inc. in favor of Bank; and

WHEREAS,  Borrowers and Bank executed a Loan Modification  Agreement dated March
15,  1996  wherein  the  maximum  amount of  credit  under the Note and the Loan
Agreements was increased to  $9,500,000.00  and the Borrowing  Base  limitations
were modified in accordance with the terms thereof; and

WHEREAS,  the Note (as modified from time to time) is scheduled to mature by its
teens on April 15, 1997,  and Borrowers have requested that the maturity date of
the Note be  extended  to July 15,  1997,  and Bank has  agreed to so extend the
maturity date of the Note, subject to the terms and conditions hereof.

NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of Ten ($10.00) Dollars in hand paid and other
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

1. The foregoing  recitals are incorporated  herein by reference as though fully
set forth.  Borrowers represent and warrant that the foregoing recitals are true
and correct. 2. The terms of the Note are hereby further amended to provide that
the  Maturity  Date is  extended  to July 15,  1997,  on which  date the  entire
principal balance, all accrued unpaid interest,  and all other amounts due under
the terms of the Note and the other Loan Documents  shall be immediately due and
payable without notice.

3.  The  terms of the  Loan  Documents  (as  such  term is  defined  in the Loan
Agreements)  are hereby  amended and  modified to comport with the terms of this
instrument to the extent the terms of any of the Loan Documents may be otherwise
inconsistent  with the  terms  hereof.  In all  other  respects,  the  terms and
provisions of the Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect.

4.  Borrowers  hereby  reaffirm all of the terms,  provisions,  warranties,  and
representations  set forth in each of the Loan  Agreements  and the  other  Loan
Documents as modified hereby.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
each of the Borrowers  warrants and  represents  that no event of default exists
under any of the Loan Agreements or any of the other Loan Documents and no event
has occurred or condition exists which with the passage of time or the giving of
notice would or could constitute an event of default.

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  have  entered  into this Loan  Modification
Agreement on the date first above written.


SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


COMMUNICATE DIRECT, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


MICROGRAPHIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


KANSAS COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


WEST SUBURBAN BANK

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.6
<SEQUENCE>11
<DESCRIPTION>LOAN MODIFICATION MATURITY EXTENSION
<TEXT>


<PAGE>


                           LOAN MODIFICATION AGREEMENT
                          (EXTENSION OF MATURITY DATE)


THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this ____ day of November,  1996, by and
between SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC., a New York Corporation  ("SoftNet"),  COMMUNICATE
DIRECT,  INC.,  an  Illinois  Corporation   ("CDI"),   MICROGRAPHIC   TECHNOLOGY
CORPORATION,  a Delaware Corporation  ("MTC"),  KANSAS  COMMUNICATIONS,  INC., a
Kansas Corporation ("KCI") (SoftNet,  CDI, MTC, and KCI collectively referred to
as "Borrowers") and WEST SUBURBAN BANK ("Bank").

WHEREAS,  Borrowers have executed and delivered to Bank a Revolving  Credit Note
dated  September  15,  1995 (the  "Note") in the  original  principal  amount of
$6,500,000.00  in which each of the  Borrowers  promises  to pay to the order of
Bank the principal amount and interest thereon as more specifically  provided in
the Note; and

WHEREAS,  to secure the repayment of the Borrowers'  obligations under the Note,
each of the  Borrowers  has executed  and  delivered to Bank a Loan and Security
Agreement dated September 15, 1995 (collectively the "Loan Agreements"); and

WHEREAS, to further secure the repayment of the Borrowers' obligations under the
Note,  SoftNet has executed and delivered to Bank a Stock Pledge Agreement dated
September 15, 1995 (the "Pledge  Agreements) whereby SoftNet has pledged 377,770
shares  (subsequently  reduced  to  277,770  shares)  of  common  stock of IMNET
Systems, Inc. in favor of Bank; and

WHEREAS,  Borrowers and Bank executed a Loan Modification  Agreement dated March
15,  1996  wherein  the  maximum  amount of  credit  under the Note and the Loan
Agreements was increased to  $9,500,000.00  and the Borrowing  Base  limitations
were modified in accordance with the terms thereof; and

WHEREAS,  the Note (as modified from time to time) is scheduled to mature by its
terms on July 15, 1997, and Borrowers,  have requested that the maturity date of
the Note be extended to October 15,  1997,  and Bank has agreed to so extend the
maturity date of the Note, subject to the tempts and conditions hereof.

NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of Ten ($10.00) Dollars in hand paid and other
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

1. The foregoing  recitals are incorporated  herein by reference as though fully
set forth.  Borrowers represent and warrant that the foregoing recitals are true
and correct. 2. The terms of the Note are hereby further amended to provide that
the  Maturity  Date is extended to October 15, , 1997,  on which date the entire
principal balance, all accrued unpaid interest,  and all other amounts due under
the terms of the Note and the other Loan Documents  shall be immediately due and
payable without notice.

3.  The  terms of the  Loan  Documents  (as  such  term is  defined  in the Loan
Agreements)  are hereby  amended and  modified to comport with the terms of this
instrument to the extent the terms of any of the Loan Documents may be otherwise
inconsistent  with the  terms  hereof.  In all  other  respects,  the  terms and
provisions of the Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect.

4.  Borrowers  hereby  reaffirm all of the terms,  provisions,  warranties,  and
representations  set forth in each of the Loan  Agreements  and the  other  Loan
Documents as modified hereby.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
each of the Borrowers  warrants and  represents  that no event of default exists
under any of the Loan Agreements or any of the other Loan Documents and no event
has occurred or condition exists which with the passage of time or the giving of
notice would or could constitute an event of default.

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  have  entered  into this Loan  Modification
Agreement on the date first above written.


SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


COMMUNICATE DIRECT, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


MICROGRAPHIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


KANSAS COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


WEST SUBURBAN BANK

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.7
<SEQUENCE>12
<DESCRIPTION>LOAN MODIFICATION INCREASE BORROWING BASE
<TEXT>





                           LOAN MODIFICATION AGREEMENT
               (TEMPORARY INCREASE OF BORROWING BASE LIMITATIONS)

THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into this ____ day of ________,  1996, by and
between SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC., a New York Corporation  ("SoftNet"),  COMMUNICATE
DIRECT,  INC.,  an  Illinois  Corporation   ("CDI"),   MICROGRAPHIC   TECHNOLOGY
CORPORATION,  a Delaware Corporation  ("MTC"),  KANSAS  COMMUNICATIONS,  INC., a
Kansas Corporation ("KCI") (SoftNet,  CDI, MTC, and KCI collectively referred to
as "Borrowers") and WEST SUBURBAN BANK ("Bank").

WHEREAS,  Borrowers have executed and delivered to Bank a Revolving  Credit Note
dated  September  15,  1995 (the  "Note") in the  original  principal  amount of
$6,500,000.00  in which each of the  Borrowers  promises  to pay to the order of
Bank the principal amount and interest thereon as more specifically  provided in
the Note; and

WHEREAS,  to secure the repayment of the Borrowers'  obligations under the Note,
each of the  Borrowers  has executed  and  delivered to Bank a Loan and Security
Agreement dated  September 15, 1995 and various other  instruments and documents
executed in connection therewith (collectively the "Loan Agreements"); and

WHEREAS,  Borrowers and Bank executed a Loan Modification  Agreement dated March
15,  1996  wherein  the  maximum  amount of  credit  under the Note and the Loan
Agreements was increased to  $9,500,000.00  and the Borrowing  Base  limitations
were modified in accordance with the terms thereof; and

WHEREAS,  Borrowers have requested that the amount of credit  availability under
the Note and the Loan  Agreements  be increased to an amount  equivalent  to One
Million  ($1,000,000.00)  Dollars in excess of the  Borrowing  Base  limitations
currently in effect; and

WHEREAS,  Bank has agreed to so increase the amount of credit availability under
the Note and the Loan Agreements through January 31, 1997.

NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of Ten ($10.00) Dollars in hand paid and other
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

1. The foregoing  recitals are incorporated  herein by reference as though fully
set forth.  Borrowers represent and warrant that the foregoing recitals are true
and correct.

2. The terms of the Note and the Loan  Agreements are hereby modified to provide
that  through and  including  January 31, 1997,  the amount of credit  available
under  the Note and the Loan  Agreements  shall be an amount  equivalent  to One
Million  ($1,000,000.00)  Dollars in excess of the amount of the Borrowing  Base
limitations   set  forth  in  the  Loan  Agreements  as  modified  by  the  Loan
Modification   Agreement   dated  March  15,  1996  (not  to  exceed,   however,
$9,500,000.00 in the aggregate).

3. On February 1, 1997,  the amount of credit  available  under the Note and the
Loan Agreements shall automatically revert to the Borrowing Base limitations set
forth in the Loan  Agreements  as  modified by the Loan  Modification  Agreement
dated  March  15,  1996,  and  Borrowers  agree to repay  such  portions  of the
outstanding  principal  balance as may be necessary in order to be in compliance
with such Borrowing Base limitations as of February 1, 1997.  Borrower's failure
to make any such required payment shall constitute an Event of Default under the
Note and the Loan Agreements.

4.  The  terms of the  Loan  Documents  (as  such  term is  defined  in the Loan
Agreements)  are hereby  amended and  modified to comport with the terms of this
instrument to the extent the terms of any of the Loan Documents may be otherwise
inconsistent  with the  terms  hereof.  In all  other  respects,  the  terms and
provisions of the Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect.

5.  Borrowers  hereby  reaffirm all of the terms,  provisions,  warranties,  and
representations  set forth in each of the Loan  Agreements  and the  other  Loan
Documents as modified hereby.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
each of the Borrowers  warrants and  represents  that no event of default exists
under any of the Loan Agreements or any of the other Loan Documents and no event
has occurred or condition exists which with the passage of time or the giving of
notice would or could constitute an event of default.

6. Borrowers agree to promptly  reimburse Bank for all attorney's fees and costs
incurred by Bank in connection with the negotiation,  preparation, and execution
of this instrument.

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  have  entered  into this Loan  Modification
Agreement on the date first above written.


SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


COMMUNICATE DIRECT, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


MICROGRAPHIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


KANSAS COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


WEST SUBURBAN BANK

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.8
<SEQUENCE>13
<DESCRIPTION>LOAN MODIFICATION OF BORROWING BASE DEFINITION
<TEXT>




                           LOAN MODIFICATION AGREEMENT
                   (MODIFICATION OF BORROWING BASE DEFINITION)


THIS  AGREEMENT  is made and entered  into this ____ day of ____,  1996,  by and
between SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC., a New York Corporation  ("SoftNet"),  COMMUNICATE
DIRECT,  INC.,  an  Illinois  Corporation   ("CDI"),   MICROGRAPHIC   TECHNOLOGY
CORPORATION,  a Delaware Corporation  ("MTC"),  KANSAS  COMMUNICATIONS,  INC., a
Kansas Corporation ("KCI") (SoftNet,  CDI, MTC, and KCI collectively referred to
as "Borrowed;") and WEST SUBURBAN BANK ("Bank").

WHEREAS,  Borrowers have executed and delivered to Bank a Revolving  Credit Note
dated  September  15,  1995 (the  "Note") in the  original  principal  amount of
$6,500,000.00  in which each of the  Borrowers  promises  to pay to the order of
Bank the principal amount and interest thereon as more specifically  provided in
the Note; and

WHEREAS,  to secure the repayment of the Borrowers'  obligations  under He Note,
each of the  Borrowers  has executed  and  delivered to Bank a Loan and Security
Agreement dated  September 15, 1995 and various other  instruments and documents
executed in connection therewith (collectively the "Loan Agreements"); and

WHEREAS,  Borrowers and Bank executed a Loan Modification  Agreement dated March
15,  1996  wherein  the  maximum  amount of  credit  under the Note and the Loan
Agreements was increased to  $9,500,000.00  and the Borrowing  Base  limitations
were modified in accordance with the terms thereof; and

WHEREAS,  Borrowers  and  Bank  executed  a Loan  Modification  Agreement  dated
November ___, 1996 wherein the amount of credit  availability under the Note and
the Loan  Agreements  was  temporarily  increased  to an  amount  equivalent  to
S1,000,000.00 in excess of the Borrowing Base  limitations  otherwise in effect,
subject to terms and limitations thereof; and

WHEREAS,  Borrower  has  requested  that  the  Borrowing  Base  limitations  and
definitions set forth in the Loan  Agreements be further  modified in accordance
with the terms hereof; and

WHEREAS,  Bank has  agreed  to such  modifications,  subject  to the  terms  and
provisions hereof

NOW, THEREFORE,  in consideration of Ten ($10.00) Dollars in hand paid and other
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:

1. The foregoing  recitals are incorporated  herein by reference as though fully
set forth.  Borrowers represent and warrant that the foregoing recite's are true
and correct.

2. The term  "Borrowing  Base" as defined in Section 2(c) of the Loan Agreements
is amended to include  fifty (50%)  percent of the Adjusted  Value of Borrower's
Inventory/Rental Equipment (as hereinafter defined).

3.  The  term  "Eligible  Inventory"  as  defined  in  Section  2(c) of the Loan
Agreements  is amended  to exclude  Borrower's  Inventory/Rental  Equipment  (as
hereinafter defined).

4. The term "Inventory/Rental Equipment" shall mean MTC's equipment described on
Exhibit A. attached hereto.

5. The "Adjusted Value" of Borrower's Inventory/Rental Equipment shall initially
be the sum of S298,771.21 and shall decrease by the sum of $8,299.20 on December
1,  1996  and on the  first  day of  each  month  thereafter  (constituting  the
depreciation of Borrower's Inventory/Rental Equipment over a Month period on the
basis of the straight-line method of depreciation).

6.  The  terms of the  Loan  Documents  (as  such  term is  defined  in the Loan
Agreements)  are hereby  amended and  modified to comport with the terms of this
instrument to the extent the terms of any of the Loan Documents may be otherwise
inconsistent  with the  terms  hereof.  In all  other  respects,  the  terms and
provisions of the Loan Documents shall remain in full force and effect.

7.  Borrowers  hereby  reaffirm all of the terms,  provisions,  warranties,  and
representations  set forth in each of the Loan  Agreements  and the  other  Loan
Documents as modified hereby.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
each of the Borrowers  warrants and  represents  that no event of default exists
under any of the Loan Agreements or any of the other Loan Documents and no event
has occurred or condition exists which with the passage of time or the giving of
notice would or could constitute an event of default.

8. Borrowers agree to promptly  reimburse Bank for all attorney's fees and costs
incurred by Bank in connection with the negotiation,  preparation, and execution
of this instrument.

IN  WITNESS  WHEREOF,  the  parties  have  entered  into this Loan  Modification
Agreement on the date first above written.


SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


COMMUNICATE DIRECT, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


MICROGRAPHIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


KANSAS COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________


WEST SUBURBAN BANK

By: _________________________________
Its: ________________________________

Attest: _____________________________
Its: ________________________________



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>14
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>


                                  Exhibit 21


                              SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.

                     LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
                            As of September 30, 1996



                       Communicate Direct, Inc. (Illinois)

                       MediaCity World, Inc. (Deleware)

                      Kansas Communications, Inc. (Kansas)

                 Micrographic Technology Corporation (Delaware)





<PAGE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>15
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>



<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM FORM 10-K FOR THE YEAR
ENDED  SEPTEMBER 30, 1996 AND IS  QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH
FORM 10-K.
</LEGEND>
<CIK>                                       0000097196
<NAME>                            SOFTNET SYSTEMS INC.
<MULTIPLIER>                                     1,000
<CURRENCY>                                  US Dollars
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-mos
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                           SEP-30-1996
<PERIOD-END>                                SEP-30-1996
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                 1.000
<CASH>                                            426
<SECURITIES>                                        4
<RECEIVABLES>                                   6,445
<ALLOWANCES>                                      371
<INVENTORY>                                     5,904
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               12,744
<PP&E>                                          3,584
<DEPRECIATION>                                  1,270
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 25,586
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          11,031
<BONDS>                                        10,762
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                               0
<PREFERRED>                                         0
<COMMON>                                       33,582
<OTHER-SE>                                          0
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   25,586
<SALES>                                        41,387
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               41,387
<CGS>                                          27,137
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  18,430
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                    0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                    0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              1,597
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                   (36)
<INCOME-TAX>                                        0
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                               (36)
<DISCONTINUED>                                      0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                (6,061)
<CHANGES>                                           0
<NET-INCOME>                                   (6,097)
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                   (1.05)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                       0
        


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
