-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 PFEh+YEtIrmFu6NwjPvWx4jkheExNL16lNBowZNeN+RpMgSHckwfL0d6O/zqAcR0
 HDS/tNX82t4MybQBtedRwg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001057056-99-000001.txt : 19990114
<SEC-HEADER>0001057056-99-000001.hdr.sgml : 19990114
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001057056-99-000001
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		4
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19980930
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990113

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SOFTNET SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000097196
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-TELEPHONE INTERCONNECT SYSTEMS [7385]
		IRS NUMBER:				111817252
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05270
		FILM NUMBER:		99505710

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		520 LOGUE AVE
		CITY:			MOUNTIAN VIEW
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94043
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6509653700

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		520 LOGUE AVE
		CITY:			MOUNTAIN VIEW
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94043

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	VADER GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MAGICSILK INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880308

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TENSOR CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19860819
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1997
<TEXT>




                    U. S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D. C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

[ X ]     Annual  Report  Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
          Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998.

                                      OR

[   ]     Transition  Report  under  Section  13 or 15(d)  of the  Securities
          Exchange Act of 1934.
                           Commission File No.: 1-5270

                              SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              New York                                 11-1817252
   --------------------------------        ---------------------------------
   (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     incorporation or organization)

   520 Logue Avenue, Mountain View, California               94043
  ---------------------------------------------          --------------
     (Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (650) 962-7470

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                   Name of each exchange
   Title of each class                              on which registered
  ---------------------                         ---------------------------
    Common Stock, par                             American Stock Exchange
  value $.01 per share

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the  Act:   None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best  of  registrant's   knowledge,  in  the  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

The  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
registrant at December 31, 1998 was approximately $130.3 million.

Indicate the number of shares  outstanding  of each of the  issuer's  classes of
common stock, as of the latest  practicable  date.

               Class                          Outstanding at December 31, 1998
- --------------------------------------      -----------------------------------
Common stock, $.01 per share par value                     8,631,087


Documents Incorporated by Reference:

Proxy Statement for registrant's 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part III)

<PAGE>



                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

     Except for historical  information  contained herein, the matters discussed
in this  Annual  Report on Form 10-K  contain  forward-looking  statements  that
involve  risks and  uncertainties  that  could  cause  actual  results to differ
materially from those anticipated by such  forward-looking  statements.  Factors
that might cause such a difference include,  but are not limited to, those risks
discussed under the caption "Risk Factors."

     The Company is in the process of  implementing  a new strategy  emphasizing
its Internet services business (the "ISP Channel").  Currently, the Company owns
three  businesses:  its  telecommunications  business,  its document  management
business and its Internet  service  business.  Each business  operates through a
wholly owned  subsidiary of the Company.  As part of its new focus,  the Company
has signed separate letters of intent to sell its  telecommunications  business,
Kansas  Communications,  Inc.  ("KCI")  and its  document  management  business,
Micrographic  Technology  Corporation ("MTC"). The Company is now accounting for
KCI as a  discontinued  operation.  Because the sale of MTC  remains  subject to
shareholder approval, the Company is accounting for MTC as a continuing business
rather  than a  discontinued  operation.  The sale of MTC and KCI is intended to
enable  the  Company  to  aggressively  expand its ISP  Channel.  See  "Business
- --Micrographic Technology Corporation."

     On November  22,  1998,  the Company  announced  its  intention to purchase
Intelligent Communications Incorporated ("Intellicom"),  the former Xerox Skyway
Network.  This  acquisition  is  expected  to be  completed  by June  30,  1999.
Intellicom has a proprietary  two-way  satellite  technology that can be used to
provide  Internet  access while  bypassing the often  expensive  telephony costs
involved in connecting to the Internet.  The Company  believes that  integrating
this new  technology  into its existing  business plan will allow the Company to
cost  effectively  provide its ISP Channel  service to smaller  cable systems in
more  remote  areas  as well as to  certain  other  markets  including  multiple
dwelling units ("MDU's"), hotels, hospitals, and schools, thereby decreasing the
Company's  cost basis and increasing  the Company's  potential  market size. See
"Business -- Intelligent Communications, Inc."

     In connection with its increased emphasis on cable-based Internet services,
the Company has built a highly experienced  management team to grow its Internet
business,  including  President and Chief  Executive  Officer,  Dr.  Lawrence B.
Brilliant (co-founder of The Well, one of the first on-line communities);  Chief
Operating  Officer,  Garrett J. Girvan (former Chief Operating Officer and Chief
Financial Officer of Viacom Cable); Chief Financial Officer, Douglas S. Sinclair
(formerly Chief Financial  Officer of Silicon Valley Networks,  Inc.);  Director
and President of ISP Channel, Ian B. Aaron (former Director of Marketing,  Sales
and Product  Development  of GTE Business  Communications);  Vice  President and
General Counsel, Steven M. Harris (formerly Vice President,  Broadband Services,
Pacific Telesis Group); Chief Marketing Officer,  Kevin Gavin (formerly Regional
Vice President of Teligent, Inc.); Director, Edward A. Bennett (former President
of Prodigy Services,  President and Chief Executive Officer of VH-1 Networks and
Chief Operating Officer of Viacom Cable); and Director,  Sean P. Doherty (former
Chief Operating  Officer of At Home  Corporation  ("@Home")).  In addition,  the
Company has recruited a number of key employees and consultants with significant
industry experience,  including Atam Lalchandani (former Chief Financial Officer
of @Home) and Howard Rheingold (author of Virtual Communities).

     The Company's  current  principal  executive office is located at 520 Logue
Avenue,  Mountain View,  California  94043.  To reduce its future rent costs per
square  foot,  the  Company  has  signed a lease  at 650  Townsend  Street,  San
Francisco,  California  94103,  and it intends to move its  principal  executive
offices and ISP Channel to this location in the first calendar quarter of 1999.

                                   ISP Channel

     The Company seeks to become the dominant cable-based provider of high-speed
Internet access and other  Internet-related  services to homes and businesses in
the  franchise  areas of those cable systems  unaffiliated  with the six largest
U.S. cable operators and certain other smaller  systems.  The Company  estimates
that its target market  comprises over 2,600 systems  passing  approximately  22
million U.S.  homes.  As of December 31, 1998,  the Company has  contracts  with
cable  operators  representing   approximately  1.4  million  homes  passed.  In
addition,  the Company plans to target  certain other  markets  including  MDUs,
hotels, hospitals and schools, which will significantly increase the size of the
Company's market.  The Company's  Internet service,  which is marketed using the
brand name "ISP Channel," provides  residential and business  subscribers access
to the Internet over the existing cable television  infrastructure  at speeds up
to 1.5  megabits  per  second  ("Mbps").  This  increased  speed  means that the
required  download  time for a 10 megabyte file is less than a minute and allows
subscribers to benefit

<PAGE>

from sophisticated multimedia applications and programming. The ISP Channel also
offers an intuitive user interface provided through a co-branding agreement with
Excite,  Inc.  ("Excite"),   and  local  information,   news  and  entertainment
customized for each community served.


Services

     High-Speed Internet Access.

     The  Company's  ISP  Channel   offering   utilizes  the  cable   television
infrastructure  and the Company's network and content  technologies to provide a
rapidly deployable,  relatively inexpensive method of access to the Internet for
residential  and business  subscribers at speeds up to 1.5 Mbps. The ISP Channel
service enables  subscribers to experience  graphically rich,  interactive,  and
multimedia  applications  thereby  improving  the  Internet  experience.  As  of
December 31, 1998, the Company had contracts for its ISP Channel service with 28
cable operators,  including Galaxy Telecom L.P. ("Galaxy"), Cable Communications
Co-op of Palo Alto ("Palo Alto Cable Co-op") and Advanced Cable  Communications,
Inc. (dba Coral Springs Cable TV, "Coral Springs Cable"), representing 119 cable
systems and approximately  1.4 million homes passed.  Nineteen of these systems,
representing  over  216,000  homes  passed,  have been  equipped  and have begun
offering the Company's services,  in most cases during the past three months. In
addition, the Company has non-binding letters of intent with 10 cable operators,
including 39 systems,  representing  approximately  359,000 homes passed.  As of
December 31, 1998, the Company had approximately  1,250 residential and business
subscribers to its ISP Channel service,  plus  approximately 500 customer orders
in backlog.  The Company also  provides  non-cable  based  dial-up and dedicated
Internet access to approximately 1,100 residential and business subscribers. For
areas where two-way cable is not yet available,  the Company deploys a telephone
return solution,  which uses the cable infrastructure for high-speed  downstream
transmission and telephone dial-up access for upstream transmission.  To use the
ISP  Channel  via cable  modem,  residential  and  business  subscribers  need a
personal computer with at least a 66 MHz, 486 or equivalent  microprocessor  and
16  megabytes of main  memory.  When  compatible  set-top  boxes  become  widely
available,  the Company plans to deliver its high-speed  Internet access through
televisions.

     Residential.  All ISP Channel  subscribers  are provided an e-mail address,
roaming services, access to unique newsgroups and chat services and personal Web
space as part of  their  monthly  fee.  Additionally,  the  Company  provides  a
co-branded "cable  affiliate/ISP  Channel/Excite"  default home page that allows
each  subscriber  to  personalize  his or her  portal to the  Internet.  Monthly
service charges are currently as low as $39 for flat rate  residential  service,
with installation charges of approximately $99. The retail price of cable modems
currently ranges from $179 to $349.

     Business.  The Company's  business  solutions include Internet and intranet
services over existing cable infrastructure and traditional telephone data lines
when necessary.  The Company  provides its cable affiliates the ability to offer
local  telecommuters,  SOHO  subscribers and business  customers a comprehensive
selection  of Internet  and  corporate  local area  network  ("LAN")  access for
employees in the office,  and virtual  private  network ("VPN") and remote local
area network ("RLAN")  applications,  which extend  corporate  network access to
remote  employees  and  external  organizations,  including  business  partners,
suppliers and customers.  The Company's future business services are expected to
include  on-line   software   distribution,   secure   high-speed  data  storage
facilities,  international  roaming services and  office-to-office IP telephony.
Prices vary significantly depending on functionality and speed.

     On-line Services.

     The Company's  content and programming  services  enhance the  subscriber's
on-line  experience by aggregating local and national content through a national
co-branding  agreement with Excite. The Company's network architecture and local

<PAGE>

cable headend  caching and  collaborative  server  functionality  facilitate the
distribution of multimedia  applications,  including  multi-player  games, video
conferencing  and multicast  video  applications,  as well as local and national
advertising.

     National Content Aggregation.  The Company has entered into a joint venture
with  Excite to  provide  co-branded  ISP  Channel/Excite  content  aggregation,
directory and search  services.  The  co-branded  content  incorporates a custom
on-line  presence for the cable  affiliate,  including  on-line cable schedules,
pay-per-view  and, in the future,  bill payment  options.  Personalization  also
allows a subscriber to use the co-branded ISP  Channel/Excite  "push" technology
to create a customized  default page  incorporating the subscriber's  interests,
including local and national news, weather, sports, stock portfolio,  horoscope,
local city  information  and  hundreds of other  selections.  In  addition,  the
co-branded  "cable  affiliate/ISP  Channel/Excite"  user  interface  provides  a
simplified, intuitive navigation tool for the subscriber.

     Local  On-line  Communities.  The Company plans to develop and deploy local
on-line  communities  that target the  interests of local  residents,  including
civic,  commercial  and  education  issues.  The on-line  communities  provide a
graphical directory of local services,  including shops,  restaurants and events
currently not focused on by national,  regional or city-wide content aggregation
services. As part of the local content strategy, the Company is developing local
on-line  community  conferencing  forums under the name "LOCALE" to expand local
interests. Local on-line community conferencing forums include an on-line PTA to
foster  better  communications  between  parents and teachers and an online town
hall to  provide  residents  a more  timely  method  to  communicate  with  city
officials.  The Company also provides subscribers the ability for subscribers to
create their own online conferencing forums.

     Video Conferencing and Collaborative Computing. Each of the Company's local
cable  affiliate  collaborative  servers  facilitates  high-speed  desktop video
conferencing (15-30 frames per second) and collaborative  computing not feasible
using  traditional  Internet  dial-up access  methods.  The local  collaborative
server allows users to work on documents over the network while engaged in voice
and  videoconferences.  The Company provides an intuitive user interface that is
integrated  into  the  browser  to  facilitate  "single-click"  conferencing  to
individuals or groups.

     Web Hosting Services. The Company provides a full complement of Web hosting
and server  collocation.  The Company's  Virtual Merchant hosting service allows
businesses to create an online  storefront using available  software and receive
orders  over the  Internet  in a matter of  hours.  Cost-effective  Web  hosting
packages  target small  business and are deployed in 24 to 48 hours.  Commercial
extranet  applications allow a business to let their customers or vendors access
their LANs using cable  modems or dial-up  facilities.  Monthly  charges for Web
hosting  and  collocation  range  from $25 to  $1,500  per  month  depending  on
bandwidth  usage,  number of inquiries  (or "hits") per month and  scripting and
database requirements.

     Local and National Advertising.  Through its cable affiliates,  the Company
plans to offer the  ability  to bundle  local  Internet  banner  and  multimedia
advertising with the existing cable video advertising sales efforts. Through the
Company's network  architecture,  local and national advertising content will be
stored in the Network Operating Center ("NOC") and replicated at the local cable
affiliate headend to enhance  performance.  The Company's  network  architecture
utilizes   multicast   routing  to  enable   the   efficient   distribution   of
Internet-based  advertising,  and video and audio content  services from content
providers and the NOC to many ISP Channel subscribers simultaneously.

     Development  of New  Services.  As the  Internet  continues  to evolve  and
encompass additional applications, the Company plans to develop new products and
services targeted to this marketplace for the future. Such products and services
may  include  set-top  box  applications,   Internet  based  telephony  services
(sometimes called IP telephony),  enhancements to the ISP Channel/Excite  portal
and improved on-line communities.

Network Architecture

     The  Company's  scalable,   distributed  network   architecture  links  the
high-bandwidth capacity of the local cable infrastructure with leased nationwide
Internet backbone facilities from major telecommunications  carriers,  including
MCI, MFS and Sprint. The Company has designed its network to move content closer
to the subscriber  (thereby  increasing speed of access) and provide  end-to-end
network  management.  The Company's  backbone  vendors  provide it with scalable
Internet backbone capacity, and thereby enable the Company to respond quickly to
increases in demand, avoiding the need to build and maintain a parallel Internet
network.

     Network  Operations  Center. The Company's NOC, which includes a network of
highly redundant  servers,  network  management  systems and broadband  Internet
access facilities, manages core subscriber services, such as e-mail, newsgroups,

<PAGE>

conferencing  and  chat  facilities,  and  local  content  replication.  The NOC
provides  nationwide  provisioning  for all  subscriber  services,  whether  the
customer  registers at the local cable affiliate's  business office, via a cable
affiliate  personalized  toll-free  telephone  number,  or through an  automated
online  provisioning  system.  The  Company is in the  process of building a new
state-of-the-art facility to support the activities of a growing number of cable
affiliates  and provide the maximum  service  availability  that  consumers  and
commercial  subscribers  demand.  To date,  the Company has  deployed one NOC in
Mountain View,  California and plans to deploy regional data centers ("RDCs") as
justified by the geographic concentration of cable affiliates in order to reduce
operating and capital expenditures and to provide a level of network redundancy.

     Local Content  Replication.  The Company's  network  architecture  utilizes
content  replication  technologies  to  enhance  the speed at which  content  is
delivered to subscribers  and makes more efficient use of the cable  affiliates'
local headend Internet  connectivity by moving the requested  information closer
to subscribers.  By replicating  frequently  accessed content in storage servers
located in each cable affiliate's headend, the Company delivers large multimedia
files,  including graphically rich Web pages and multimedia content, to numerous
local  cable  modem  subscribers  without  frequent   re-transmission  over  the
Internet.

     Total  Network  Management.  The  Company  utilizes a network of  dedicated
servers to monitor  connectivity  and  performance  from the NOC to each  online
cable affiliate headend and its respective cable modem subscribers. In addition,
the Company's NOC currently monitors over 250 independent routers and servers on
the  Internet,  including  major  backbone  providers,  major  Internet  service
providers ("ISPs"),  frequently accessed Web sites, and major nationwide peering
and  routing  facilities  across the  country.  The NOC  allows  the  Company to
automatically  reroute  Internet  traffic to  maintain  subscriber  cable  modem
performance despite regional Internet congestion and backbone outages.

     Redundant Leased Backbone Facilities.  The Company connects cable affiliate
headends to the Internet via facilities leased from MCI, MFS, Sprint and others.
By  utilizing  multiple  providers,  the  Company  can  assure  maximum  network
availability  while enhancing the routing efficiency of cable modem subscribers'
Internet  requests.  National  network  agreements  allow the Company to provide
scalable  local  connections  to its cable  affiliates.  The  Company's  network
architecture  facilitates  high  performance,  rapid  cost-effective  deployment
independent of location and software  scalability  for  responsive  additions to
network capacities.

     Cable Affiliate Headends. Affiliated cable system headends are connected to
the  Internet  and in  turn  the  NOC  through  the  Company's  leased  backbone
facilities.   Each  Internet  connection  utilizes  a  high  performance  router
supporting  speeds up to 45 Mbps, which can be upgraded to 155 Mbps as required.
Currently,  the Company is deploying  headend  equipment from 3Com and Com21. In
addition,  the Company purchases telephone access lines to support local dial-up
Internet  access  services or dial-up  return for  one-way  cable  systems.  The
Company actively monitors its dial-up facilities and purchases  additional lines
as necessary to meet subscriber  demand.  The Company  installs servers into the
cable affiliate headend to support local caching, collaborative and IP telephony
functions. Local collaborative servers facilitate desktop video conferencing and
collaborative  document sharing. The Company has been evaluating technology from
several  IP  telephony  vendors  and  plans to deploy IP  telephony  servers  to
facilitate IP telephony services through the Company's network.

     Cable Modems and Television  Set-Top  Boxes.  Residential  subscribers  can
connect to the Internet over the local cable  infrastructure using a cable modem
and, in the future will be able to connect via an integrated  television set-top
box. In the case of cable  modems,  the coaxial  cable is connected to the cable
modem and the cable  modem is  connected  to an  Ethernet  card  installed  in a
subscriber's  PC. Internal cable modem PC cards do not require the Ethernet card
installation.  In the case of television based high-speed  Internet access,  the
coaxial  cable is attached  directly to the set-top box.  The Company  currently
provides a custom installation CD that allows a cable modem subscriber to choose
either Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator, along with a selection
of  popular  utility   programs.   The  Company   currently  uses  cable  modems
manufactured by 3Com and Com21.

Sales and Marketing

     To Cable Operators.

     The Company  markets its services  through the  establishment  of exclusive
relationships  with cable  operators  whose  systems  are  primarily  located in
secondary  and  tertiary  markets and  bedroom  communities  of major DMAs.  The
Company  uses its seven  person  sales force with  offices in Atlanta,  Georgia,

<PAGE>

Bethesda,  Maryland,  Chicago,  Illinois,  Denver,  Colorado and Los Angeles and
Mountain  View,  California to market the ISP Channel.  This sales force targets
the  corporate  offices of  national  and  regional  multiple  system  operators
("MSOs").  The  sales  force  employs  a  team-selling  approach  targeting  key
management,  marketing and engineering  personnel within each cable system.  The
Company participates in three national industry trade shows, the Atlantic,  NCTA
and Western, in addition to 17 state-sponsored local cable industry trade shows.

     The Company began offering  telephone-based  Internet services in June 1996
and cable-based   Internet services  in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997. As of
December 31, 1998, the Company had contracts for its ISP Channel service with 28
cable  operators,  including  Galaxy,  Palo Alto Cable  Co-op and Coral  Springs
Cable,  representing  119 cable  systems and  approximately  1.4  million  homes
passed.  Nineteen of these  systems,  representing  approximately  216,000 homes
passed,  have been equipped and have begun offering the Company's  services,  in
most  cases  during  the  past  three  months.  In  addition,  the  Company  has
non-binding  letters of intent with ten cable  operators,  including 39 systems,
representing  approximately  359,000 homes passed.  As of December 31, 1998, the
Company had approximately 1,250 residential and business  subscribers to its ISP
Channel service,  plus approximately 500 customer orders in backlog. The Company
also  provides   non-cable  based  dial-up  and  dedicated  Internet  access  to
approximately 1,100 residential and business subscribers.

     The Company has a revenue  sharing  arrangement  with its cable  affiliates
pursuant to which a cable affiliate  generally receives 25% of Internet services
revenue  for the  first  200 ISP  Channel  subscribers  on a  cable  system  and
approximately  50% of such  revenues  thereafter.  In addition,  the Company has
adopted an affiliate incentive program whereby certain cable operators have been
offered  either  cash or  shares  of  common  stock as an  incentive  to sign an
exclusive  contract with the Company for the  provision of Internet  services to
their cable systems. It is the Company's intention,  however, that the affiliate
incentive  program will only offer common stock  beginning  January 1, 1999. The
Company has reserved up to 19.9% of its  outstanding  common stock as of May 29,
1998 for issuance to cable affiliates  under this program.  The number of shares
of common stock that may be paid to any individual  cable  affiliate will depend
on a variety of  factors,  including  the  number and size of the cable  systems
covered by a contract  with an MSO, the number of homes passed and the number of
cable  subscribers  in a system,  the  services  provided by the Company and the
length of exclusivity of the contract.  These incentive payments are expected to
range between $2.00 and $5.00 worth of stock per home passed,  based on the fair
market  value of the common  stock at the time a letter of intent or  definitive
agreement is entered  into with a cable  affiliate,  depending  upon the various
factors  described  above. The Company may issue stock or pay cash incentives at
the time a contract is entered into, or it may place the stock or cash incentive
amounts in escrow to be disbursed as cable systems are deployed.

     To Internet Subscribers.

     Through  Cable  Affiliates.   The  Company's   agreements  with  its  cable
affiliates provide the Company a conduit to reach potential  subscribers.  Cable
affiliates provide the Company with television  advertising time and the ability
to include material  describing the Company's  services in bills mailed to cable
subscribers.  The  Company  creates  all of the  content to be  included in such
marketing  efforts.  The Company has produced an infomercial  and is planning to
produce 30 and 60 second commercials to be aired by cable operators.

     Direct to the Public.  The Company markets directly to homes and businesses
in its cable  affiliates'  franchise areas through  telemarketing,  direct mail,
door hangers, and local event marketing. In addition, the Company telemarkets to
existing cable subscribers using the cable affiliate's current subscriber list.

Agreement with Excite

     The  Company's  agreement  with  Excite  creates a  strategic  relationship
between the companies that will promote the development and national presence of
the Company. Under the agreement, Excite designs, creates and promotes Web pages
for its "Excite Search" and "My Excite Channel"  services that display the names
of both the  Company  and  Excite to ISP  Channel  subscribers.  Excite has sole
responsibility for providing and maintaining,  at its expense, the resulting Web
portal.  The Company is responsible for  incorporating  the co-branded My Excite
Channel  service as a default home page for, or display a link to the co-branded
My Excite  Channel  service  on,  the ISP  Channel or any  personalized  service
application.

     Excite will sell  advertising on the co-branded  pages,  and will create at
least one  promotional  space within its service that may be sold by the Company
or its cable  affiliates.  Excite  and the  Company  will share a portion of the

<PAGE>

advertising revenues received from banner advertising that appears on co-branded
pages.  Under the  terms of the  agreement  between  the  Company  and its cable
affiliates,  the Company may, in turn,  share a portion of such revenue with its
cable affiliates.

Customer Care and Billing

     As part of the Company's strategy to leverage local cable affiliates' brand
identities, the Company is developing a comprehensive provisioning,  billing and
customer  care  system that allows for its  services  to be  individualized  and
co-branded  for each cable  affiliate  system.  The  Company  has  entered  into
contracts  with  PeopleSoft,  Inc.  ("PeopleSoft")  (a billing  system  vendor),
Clarify  Inc.   ("Clarify")   (a  customer   care  system   vendor)  and  Aspect
Telecommunications  ("Aspect")  (a call  center  system  vendor)  to design  and
implement an integrated,  flexible and scalable solution. The Company's Customer
Care Center ("CCC") is being designed to provide customer service from a central
care  center  located  in  Mountain  View,  California.  The  CCC  will  provide
individualized  toll-free support for each affiliated cable system for pre-sales
information and through which subscribers can coordinate all services  including
provisioning,  billing and  technical  support.  Additionally,  the Company will
provide cable  affiliates  with the ability to access  individualized  Web-based
reporting  and  call   monitoring  for  all  customer  care  service   including
telemarketing, sales and technical support.

     Provisioning.   The  Company  today  provisions  service  by  means  of  an
individualized  toll-free  number  with  personalized  answering  for each cable
affiliate  system.  The  Company is in the  process of  implementing  an on-line
provisioning  system using the  PeopleSoft  billing  platform that will enable a
subscriber  to  purchase  a cable  modem in a retail  location  or at the  cable
affiliate's  business  office and register and provision the service  on-line 24
hours per day.  The on-line  services  will include  provisioning,  Web-based or
e-mail bill presentation and Web-based service modification.

     Billing. The Company currently provides the ability for cable affiliates or
the Company to be responsible for billing and collection. If any cable affiliate
elects to bill ISP Channel  subscribers  within its franchise  area, the Company
maintains  a  duplicate  subscriber  record in its system for  provisioning  and
reconciliation. If the Company provides the billing and collection services, the
Company   provides   the  bill   delivery   via  e-mail  and  settles   accounts
electronically  via major credit cards,  debit cards or electronic check cashing
services.

     Technical  Support.  The CCC currently  utilizes a state of the art digital
private  telephone  exchange  ("PBX") and Automatic  Call  Distribution  ("ACD")
system to provide  full-time  individualized  technical  support  for each cable
affiliate system. The Company is currently  implementing a new Aspect ACD system
accompanied  by  Clarify's   customer  care  software  allowing  a  subscriber's
information and history to be presented to a technical support representative in
conjunction  with each call. The Company's  "knowledge base system"  facilitates
expedient trouble shooting and historical  reporting on an individualized  cable
system basis  delivered  to cable  affiliates  in real-time  through a Web-based
interface or monthly via e-mail.

Vendor Relationships

     In addition to the relationships that the Company has with Excite, MCI, MFS
and Sprint, the Company currently depends on a limited number of other suppliers
for certain key  technologies  used to provide  Internet  related  services.  In
particular,  the Company depends on 3Com Corporation and Com21,  Inc.for headend
and cable modem  technology  and Cisco  Systems,  Inc.  for network  routing and
switching hardware.

Competition

     The Company  faces  competition  in two broad areas:  (i)  competition  for
partnerships  with cable  operators  from other cable  modem-based  providers of
Internet access services,  and (ii) competition from other types of providers of
Internet services.

     Even if a consumer  believes that  cable-based  Internet access is the best
method of accessing  the  Internet,  the consumer may not be able to obtain this
service  from the Company  unless the  consumer  lives in an area  serviced by a
cable  operator that has  partnered  with the Company.  Thus, an additional  and
important  class of competition  could come from companies which seek to partner
with cable operators and offer to equip these cable systems with Internet access
capability  or to manage the cable  operator's  Internet  services or from cable
operators  who  decide  not to choose a partner  but  rather to build  their own
Internet service themselves.

<PAGE>


     National  Cable Modem Service  Providers.  Competitive  cable modem service
providers such as @Home and RoadRunner (and their respective cable partners) are
deploying  high-speed  Internet access  services over HFC cable networks.  Where
deployed,  these  networks  provide  similar  services  to those  offered by the
Company.  These  providers and their MSO affiliates have  substantially  greater
financial and operational resources than the Company and may accordingly be able
to deploy their service more rapidly and aggregate content more effectively than
the Company. In addition, such competitive providers enjoy an inherent advantage
in  marketing  their  services  to  their  MSO  affiliates  by  virtue  of  such
affiliations.

     System  Integrators.  Companies like  Convergence.com,  HSAnet, OSS and the
GlobalCenter  service of Frontier  Communications  offer their services to cable
operators to assist these cable  operators in upgrading  their  systems to carry
Internet and Web-based  applications.  These companies  initially  charged cable
operators  for their  technical  services,  but  recently  some  have  adopted a
partnership model similar to the Company's in which the systems  integrator will
absorb the cost of the technical  upgrading of the system and the integrator and
the cable operator will share revenues.

     There are many competing  technologies  for delivering  Internet  access to
homes and businesses which compete with the Company's ISP Channel. The number of
such competing  technologies is growing and the Company expects that competition
will  intensify  in the  future.  The  Company's  competitors  comprise  several
categories of providers of Internet services:  incumbent local exchange carriers
("ILECs") , interexchange carriers ("IXCs"), competitive local exchange carriers
("CLECs"), ISPs, online service providers (" OSPs"), wireless and satellite data
service providers and digital subscriber line ("DSL") focused CLECs.

     Many of these competitors are offering (or may soon offer) technologies and
services  that will  directly  compete with the ISP Channel.  Such  technologies
include  integrated  services digital network  ("ISDN"),  DSL and wireless data.
Certain bases of  competition  in the  Company's  markets  include  transmission
speed,    reliability   of   service,    breadth   of   service    availability,
price/performance,  network security,  ease of access and use, content bundling,
customer support, brand recognition,  operating experience, capital availability
and exclusive contracts.  The Company believes that it compares unfavorably with
its competitors with regard to, among other things, brand recognition, operating
experience, exclusive contracts, and capital availability. Many of the Company's
competitors and potential  competitors have substantially greater resources than
the  Company  and there can be no  assurance  that the  Company  will be able to
compete effectively in its target markets.

     Each of these classes of competitors is detailed below:

     ILECs.  All of the largest ILECs that are present in the  Company's  target
markets  are  conducting  technical  and/or  market  trials  of  DSL-based  data
services.  In  addition,  at  least  three  regional  Bell  operating  companies
("RBOCs")  have sought Federal  Communications  Commission  ("FCC")  approval to
provide  DSL-based data services across local access and transport area ("LATA")
boundaries  prior  to the  date on  which  the  RBOC  is  permitted  to  provide
long-distance  voice service  across such  boundaries.  The RBOCs'  requests are
being challenged at the FCC by competitors. As they move forward in implementing
DSL-based data services (and secure any additional needed regulatory approvals),
the  RBOCs and other  ILECs  will  represent  strong  competition  in all of the
Company's  target  service areas.  The ILECs have an established  brand name and
reputation for high quality in their service areas,  possess  sufficient capital
to deploy DSL  equipment  rapidly,  have  their own copper  lines and can bundle
digital data  services  with their  existing  analog  voice  services to achieve
economies of scale in serving customers.

     National Long Distance  Carriers.  IXCs, such as AT&T,  Sprint and WorldCom
have  deployed  large-scale  Internet  access  networks,  sell  connectivity  to
businesses and residential customers and have high brand recognition.  They also
have interconnection agreements with many of the ILECs, and those agreements may
include  collocation  spaces from which they could  begin to offer DSL  services
competitive with the ISP Channel. On June 24, 1998, AT&T and TCI announced their
intention to merge. Such a merger,  if consummated,  would allow AT&T to provide
Internet  services  using  TCI's  cable  infrastructure  and  would  give AT&T a
significant economic and voting interest in @Home.

     Fiber-Based  CLECs  ("FCLECs").  FCLECs such as  Intermedia  Communications
Group, Inc.  ("Intermedia") and ICG Communications,  Inc. ("ICG") have extensive
fiber networks in many metropolitan areas primarily providing high-speed digital
and voice circuits to large customers. Some FCLECs have announced plans to offer
DSL services  competitive  with the ISP Channel in many markets  targeted by the
Company.  These companies could modify their current business focuses to include
residential  and small business  customers  using  cable-based  access or DSL in
combination with their current fiber networks.

<PAGE>

     Internet Service Providers. ISPs such as BBN (acquired by GTE Corporation),
UUNET Technologies,  Inc. (acquired by WorldCom),  Earthlink, Concentric Network
Corporation,  MindSpring,  Netcom  (acquired  by ICG) and PSINet,  Inc.  provide
Internet  access to  residential  and business  customers,  generally  using the
existing public switched  telephone  network at ISDN speeds or below.  Some ISPs
such as  HarvardNet  Inc. in  Massachusetts,  InterAccess  in Illinois and Vitts
Corporation in New Hampshire have begun offering DSL-based services.  Additional
ISPs could become DSL service providers competitive with the Company.

     Online  Service  Providers.  OSPs include  companies such as America Online
("AOL"),  Compuserve  (acquired by AOL), MSN (a subsidiary of Microsoft  Corp.),
Prodigy,  Inc.,  WorldGate Inc.  ("WorldGate")  and WebTV (acquired by Microsoft
Corp.) that  provide,  over the Internet  and on  proprietary  online  services,
content  and  applications  ranging  from  news and  sports  to  consumer  video
conferencing.  These  services  are  designed  for broad  consumer  access  over
telecommunications-based  transmission  media,  which  enable the  provision  of
digital  services  to the  significant  number of  consumers  who have  personal
computers with modems. In addition, they provide Internet connectivity,  ease of
use and consistency of environment.  Many of these OSPs have developed their own
access networks for modem connections. If these OSPs were to extend their access
networks to cable-based access or DSL, they would be competitors of the Company.

     Wireless  and  Satellite  Data  Service  Providers  ("WSDSPs").  WSDSPs are
developing wireless and satellite-based  Internet connectivity.  The Company may
face competition from terrestrial  wireless services,  including,  two Gigahertz
("GHz") and 28 GHz wireless cable systems,  multichannel multipoint distribution
service ("MMDS") and local multipoint  distribution service ("LMDS"), and 18 GHz
and 39 GHz point-to-point  microwave systems.  For example, the FCC is currently
considering  new rules to permit MMDS  licensees  to use their  systems to offer
two-way  services,  including  high-speed  data,  rather  than solely to provide
one-way video services.  The FCC also recently awarded LMDS licenses,  which can
be used for  high-speed  data services as well. In addition,  companies  such as
Teligent,  Inc., Advanced Radio Telecom Corp. and WinStar  Communications,  Inc.
hold  point-to-point  microwave licenses to provide fixed wireless services such
as voice, data and videoconferencing.

     The  Company  also  may  face  competition  from  satellite-based  systems.
Motorola  Satellite  Systems,  Inc.,  Hughes Space and  Communications  Group (a
subsidiary  of General  Motors  Corporation),  Teledesic  and others  have filed
applications  with the FCC for global  satellite  networks  which can be used to
provide broadband voice and data services.

     In January  1997,  the FCC  allocated 300 MHz of spectrum in the 5 GHz band
for  unlicensed  devices to provide  short-range,  high-speed  wireless  digital
communications.  These  frequencies  must be shared with incumbent users without
causing  interference.  Although the  allocation is designed to  facilitate  the
creation of new wireless LANs, it is too early to predict whether users of these
frequencies could become competitors of the ISP Channel.

     DSL-focused CLECs.  Certain companies,  such as Covad  Communications Group
("Covad") and Rhythms NetConnections,  Inc. have obtained CLEC certification and
are offering  high-speed  data services  using a strategy of collocating in ILEC
central offices. The 1996 Act specifically grants any and all CLECs the right to
negotiate   interconnection   agreements   with  the  ILEC  providing  for  such
collocation.

Federal Regulation

     Internet Regulation

     The  Company's  Internet  services  are not  currently  subject  to  direct
regulation by the FCC or any other governmental agency.  However, it is possible
that new laws and regulations may be adopted that would subject the provision of
the  Company's  Internet  services  to  government  regulation.   Certain  other
legislative initiatives, including those involving taxation of Internet services
and payment of access charges by ISPs, are also possible. Any new laws regarding
the Internet,  particularly  those that impose regulatory or financial  burdens,
could impact  adversely the Company's  ability to provide  various  services and
could have a material adverse effect on the Company's  results of operations and
financial  condition.  The Company cannot  predict the impact,  if any, that any
future laws or regulatory changes may have on its business.

     The introduction of, or changes to, regulations that directly or indirectly
affect the regulatory  status of Internet  services,  affect  telecommunications
costs (including the application of reciprocal compensation requirements, access
charges or universal service contribution  obligations to Internet services), or
increase the competition from regional  telecommunications  companies or others,
could have a material adverse effect on the Company's  results of operations and

<PAGE>

financial condition. For instance, if the FCC determines, through any one of its
ongoing or future proceedings,  that the Internet is subject to regulation,  the
Company could be required to comply with a number of FCC entry/exit regulations,
reporting, fee, and record-keeping requirements,  marketing restrictions, access
charge obligations, and universal service contribution obligations,  which could
adversely  impact the Company's  ability to provide various planned services and
have a  material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  results of  operations  and
financial  condition.  The  Company  cannot  predict the  impact,  if any,  that
regulations   or  regulatory   changes  may  have  on  its  business.   A  final
determination by the FCC that providing Internet transport or telephony services
to customers over an IP-based network is subject to regulation also could impact
adversely the Company's  ability to provide various  planned  services and could
have a  material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  results of  operations  and
financial condition.

     Since Internet services are a relatively recent  phenomenon,  the legal and
regulatory framework is still in its nascent state of development.  The evolving
state of law and  regulation  is reflected in the FCC's April 10, 1998 Report to
Congress (the "April Report").  In the April Report,  the FCC discussed  whether
ISPs should be classified as telecommunications carriers, and, on that basis, be
required to  contribute  to the USF. The April Report  concluded  that  Internet
access   service-which  the  FCC  defined  as  an  offering  combining  computer
processing,    information   storage,    protocol   conversion,    and   routing
transmissions-is an "information  service" under the  Telecommunications  Act of
1996 and thus not subject to  regulation.  In  contrast,  the FCC found that the
provision of transmission  capabilities to ISPs and other  information  services
providers    do    constitute    "telecommunications    services"    under   the
Telecommunications   Act  of  1996.   Consequently,   parties   providing  those
telecommunications  services  are  subject to current  FCC  regulation  (and the
corresponding USF obligations).

     Another major and  unresolved  regulatory  issue concerns the obligation of
ISPs to pay access  charges to ILECs.  A proceeding  has been pending before the
FCC  since  December  1996  that  raises  the issue  whether  ILECs  can  assess
interstate  access charges on information  service  providers,  including  ISPs.
Unlike "basic services,"  "enhanced  services," which are generally analogous to
"information  services" and include  Internet access  services,  are exempt from
interstate access charges. The FCC concluded that that exemption for information
services  (including Internet access) should remain in place pending the outcome
of the  proceeding.  On a  more  general  level,  the  FCC  has  questioned  the
efficiency of the access charge regime and whether  access  charges-  originally
designed in the context of wireline voice  services-should  be extended to ISPs,
even if it is ultimately concluded that they are telecommunications carriers.

     Another major and unresolved  regulatory  proceeding  that could affect the
benefit and cost of the Company's  service  offerings (to the extent the Company
becomes   involved  in  the   exchange   of   traffic),   involves   "reciprocal
compensation."  Reciprocal  compensation relates to the fees paid by one carrier
to terminate  traffic on another  carrier's  network.  In July 1997, the FCC was
petitioned to clarify its rules on whether CLECs that serve ISPs are entitled to
reciprocal  compensation  under  the  Telecommunications  Act of 1996 for  calls
originated  by  customers  of an ILEC to an ISP served by a CLEC within the same
local  calling  area.  The ISPs and CLECs believe that such calls are subject to
reciprocal  compensation when they originate and terminate within the same local
calling area. In contrast,  the ILECs believe that all such calls are interstate
in nature and are not subject to reciprocal  compensation.  Although the FCC has
not yet resolved  the issue,  every state that has  addressed  the issue from an
intrastate perspective (at least fifteen in number) has determined that calls to
ISPs are to be  treated  as  local  for  purposes  of  reciprocal  compensation.
Resolution  of  reciprocal  compensation  issues  could  increase  ISP  costs by
increasing telephone charges if the FCC takes a position contrary to the states'
position, and thereby requires states to reverse course.

     Another major regulatory issue concerns  Internet-based  telephony.  In the
April Report, the FCC observed that Internet-based  telephone service (which the
FCC called "IP  telephony")  appears to be a  telecommunications  service rather
than an  unregulated  information  service.  The  FCC  explained  that it  would
determine on a  case-by-case  basis  whether to regulate the service and thereby
require  providers  of IP telephony  to  contribute  to the USF. The FCC did not
address  the  regulatory  status  of cable  system  facilities  used to  provide
Internet access or the USF  obligations of cable systems  providing such access.
The ultimate  resolution of issues concerning cable system provision of Internet
access,  as well as IP telephony  issues,  could affect the  regulatory  status,
cost, and other aspects of the Company's  service  offerings.  The Company could
also be  affected  in a  material  adverse  way by  federal  and state  laws and
regulations relating to the liability of on-line services companies and Internet
access  providers  for  information  carried on or  disseminated  through  their
networks. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose such liability upon on-line
services  companies and Internet  access  providers are  currently  pending.  In
addition,  legislation  has been enacted and new  legislation  has been proposed
that imposes  liability for the transmission of or prohibits the transmission of
certain types of information on the Internet,  including  sexually  explicit and
gambling  information.  The imposition of potential liability on the Company and
other  Internet  access  providers for  information  carried on or  disseminated
through their systems could require the Company to implement  measures to reduce
its  exposure  to such  liability,  which  may  require  the  Company  to expend

<PAGE>

substantial  resources or to discontinue  certain service or product  offerings.
The increased  attention to liability  issues as a result of these  lawsuits and
legislative actions and proposals could impact the growth of Internet use. While
the Company carries professional liability insurance,  it may not be adequate to
compensate  claimants  or may not cover  the  Company  in the event the  Company
becomes liable for information carried on or disseminated  through its networks.
Any costs not covered by  insurance  incurred as a result of such  liability  or
asserted liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results
of operations and financial condition, its ability to meet its obligations under
the Notes and the value of the Warrants and the Warrant Shares.

State Regulation

     As use of the Internet has  proliferated  in the past several years,  state
legislators  and  regulators  have  increasingly  shown  interest in  regulating
various aspects of the Internet.  Much of the legislation that has been proposed
to date may, if enacted,  handicap further growth in the use of the Internet. It
is possible that the state  legislatures and regulators will attempt to regulate
the Internet in the future, either by regulating  transactions or by restricting
the  content  of the  available  information  and  services.  Enactment  of such
legislation or adoption of such regulations could have a material adverse impact
on the Company.

     One area of potential state regulation concerns taxes. A significant number
of bills have been  introduced in state  legislatures  that would tax commercial
transactions  on the  Internet.  For its part,  the United  States  Congress  is
currently  considering  federal  legislation  to  impose a  moratorium  on state
Internet  taxes for a fixed  number of years  until a coherent  policy  could be
developed for state  Internet  taxation,  or, in the  alternative,  to establish
model  rules that could  govern tax  regulation  by all  states.  Future laws or
regulatory  changes that lead to state taxation of Internet  transactions  could
have a material adverse impact on the Company.

     Although   customer-level   use  of  the  Internet  to  conduct  commercial
transactions is still in its infancy, a growing number of corporate entities are
engaging in Internet  transactions.  This Internet  commerce has given rise to a
number of legal and  regulatory  issues,  such as (i)  whether  and how  certain
provisions  of the  Uniform  Commercial  Code  (adopted  by 49 states)  apply to
transactions  carried  out  on  the  Internet  and  (ii)  how  to  decide  which
jurisdiction's  laws are to be applied to a  particular  transaction.  It is not
possible  to  predict  how state law will  evolve to address  new  transactional
circumstances  created by Internet  commerce,  or whether the  evolution of such
laws will have a material adverse impact on the Company.

     State   legislators  and  regulators  have  also  sought  to  restrict  the
transmission or limit access to certain materials on the Internet.  For example,
in the past several  years,  various state  legislators  have sought to limit or
prohibit:  (i) certain  communications between adults and minors, (ii) anonymous
and  pseudonymous  use of the  Internet,  (iii) on-line  gambling,  and (iv) the
offering of securities  on the  Internet.  Enforcement  of such  limitations  or
prohibitions  in some states could affect  transmission  in other states.  State
laws and regulations that restrict access to certain  materials on the Web could
inadvertently  block  access to other  permissible  sites.  The  Company  cannot
predict the impact,  if any, that any future laws or regulatory  changes in this
area may have on its business.

     Some states have also sought to impose tort liability or criminal penalties
on various  conduct  involving the Internet,  such as the use of "hate"  speech,
invasion of privacy, and fraud. The adoption of such laws could adversely impact
the transmission of non-offensive  material on the Internet and, to that extent,
possibly have a material adverse impact on the Company's business.

     The  Company   anticipates  that  it  may  in  the  future  seek  to  offer
telecommunications  service as a CLEC. All states in which the Company  operates
require  a  certification  or  other  authorization  from the  state  regulatory
commission to offer intrastate  telecommunications  services. Many of the states
in which the Company  operates are in the process of addressing  issues relating
to the  regulation of CLECs.  Some states may require  authorization  to provide
enhanced services.

     The  Telecommunications  Act contains  provisions  that prohibit states and
localities from adopting or imposing any legal requirement that may prohibit, or
have the  effect of  prohibiting,  the  ability  of any  entity to  provide  any
interstate  or  intrastate  telecommunications  service.  The FCC is required to
preempt any such state or local  requirements to the extent necessary to enforce
the  Telecommunications  Act's  open  market  entry  requirements.   States  and
localities  may,  however,  continue to regulate  the  provision  of  intrastate
telecommunications  services  and  require  carriers to obtain  certificates  or
licenses before providing service.

<PAGE>

     In states where the Company operates,  rulemaking proceedings,  arbitration
proceedings and other state regulatory proceedings that may affect the Company's
ability  to compete  with ILECs are now  underway  or may be  instituted  in the
future.  These  proceedings  involve a  variety  of  telecommunications  issues,
including  but not  limited  to:  pricing  and  pricing  methodologies  of local
exchange and  intrastate  interexchange  services;  development  and approval of
resale agreements  between ILECs and CLECs and among CLECs; terms and conditions
governing the provision of  telecommunications  services;  customer  service and
unauthorized   changes  in   customer-selected   telephone  service   providers;
complaints   regarding   anticompetitive   practices  and  transactions  between
affiliated telecommunications companies; denial of entry into telecommunications
markets;  discount  levels  for  resale  of local  exchange  and toll  services;
treatment of and compensation for calls to Internet service  providers;  charges
for access to ILEC  networks;  cost  sharing and  implementation  of interim and
permanent number portability;  dialing parity;  access to and responsibility for
universal service funding;  and review and  recommendation to the FCC concerning
RBOC  authorization to offer in-region long distance service.  To the extent the
Company  decides  in the  future to  install  its own  transmission  facilities,
rulemaking  proceedings,  arbitration  proceedings  and other  state  regulatory
proceedings may also affect the Company's  ability to compete with ILECs.  These
proceedings may involve issues including but not limited to: collocation of ILEC
and CLEC  facilities;  interconnection  agreements  between ILECs and CLECs; and
access to unbundled and combined network elements of ILECs. In addition,  states
in which the Company  operates may consider  legislation  that  involves  issues
including  but not limited to: any of the  aforementioned  issues in  rulemaking
proceedings,  arbitration  proceedings and other state  regulatory  proceedings;
alternative forms of regulation; and limitations on the provision of competitive
telecommunications services.

Local Regulation

     Although  local  jurisdictions  generally  have not sought to regulate  the
Internet, it is possible that such jurisdictions will seek to impose regulations
in the future.  In particular,  local  jurisdictions  may attempt to tax various
aspects of Internet access or services, such as transactions handled through the
Internet or subscriber  access, as a way of generating  municipal  revenue.  The
imposition of local taxes and other  regulatory  burdens by local  jurisdictions
could have a material adverse impact on the Company.

     The Company's  networks may also be subject to numerous  local  regulations
such as building codes and licensing.  Such  regulations  vary on a city by city
and county by county basis.  To the extent the Company  decides in the future to
install its own transmission  facilities,  it will need to obtain  rights-of-way
over  private and  publicly  owned  land.  There can be no  assurance  that such
rights-of-way  will be available to the Company on  economically  reasonable  or
advantageous terms.

     The foregoing  discussion of regulatory factors does not describe all laws,
regulations,  or restrictions that may apply to the Company.  Nor does it review
all laws or regulations  under  consideration by federal and state  governmental
bodies that may affect the Company's operations. It is possible that present and
future laws and  regulations  not discussed  here could have a material  adverse
effect on the Company's  results of  operations  and  financial  condition,  its
ability to meet its  obligations  under the Notes and the value of the  Warrants
and the Warrant Shares.

Backlog

     As  of  December  31,  1998,  the  ISP  Channel  had  28  signed  contracts
representing  119 cable  systems and  approximately  1.4 million  homes  passed.
Nineteen of these  systems,  representing  over 216,000 homes passed,  have been
equipped and have begun  offering the Company's  services.  One hundred of these
systems, representing approximately 1.2 million homes passed, are in backlog. As
of December  31,  1998,  the Company had  approximately  1,250  residential  and
business subscribers to its ISP Channel service, plus approximately 500 customer
orders in backlog.

Employees

     As of December  31, 1998 the Company had eight  full-time  employees at its
corporate headquarters. The ISP Channel had 86 employees.


<PAGE>



                       Micrographic Technology Corporation

     As part of its new focus, the Company has signed a letter of intent to sell
MTC which,  because of its size in relation to the Company's  overall assets and
because of the  concurrent  sale of the Company's  telecommunications  business,
KCI,  is  subject  to  approval  of the  Company's  shareholders.  The  Board of
Directors of the Company  intends to submit a proposal to sell MTC together with
its  recommendation  in favor of such proposal to the Company's  shareholders at
its 1999 annual meeting of  shareholders  and has no reason to believe that such
proposal  will not be approved.  Because such sale is subject to approval of the
Company's shareholders and the execution of definitive agreements,  however, the
sale of MTC is not reflected herein as a discontinued business.

     MTC designs, develops, and manufactures sophisticated, automated electronic
document   management  and  film-based  imaging  solutions  for  customers  with
large-scale,  complex,   document-intensive  requirements.  MTC's  hardware  and
software products are based on an industry standard client-server  architecture,
providing  flexibility to connect to a wide variety of  information  systems and
produce output to various storage media,  including optical disk,  magnetic disk
and tape,  CD-ROM,  and microfilm and  microfiche,  spanning the entire document
lifecycle.  MTC  manufactures a family of Computer  Output to Microfilm  ("COM")
production systems,  from which it has historically  derived the majority of its
revenues.  MTC's  proprietary  software  captures  information from a variety of
sources,   then  intelligently   indexes  and  directs  the  data  for  storage,
distribution and retrieval.  MTC expects that its business will  increasingly be
focused on the distribution and retrieval of electronically captured information
over a variety of communications media, such as the Internet, LANs and wide area
networks  ("WANs").  To this end, MTC is pursuing a strategy of partnering  with
providers  of  features  or  elements   that  enhance  MTC's   electronic   data
distribution solutions.

Products and Services

     MTC's products consist of a variety of electronic and film-based solutions.

     Electronic Solutions

     Information  Distribution  System.  The  integrated  IDS software  solution
allows users to automatically collect, organize and transport information to the
print or storage media of choice, enhancing the productivity and cost efficiency
of  computer  output and  storage  operations.  The  following  product  options
comprise MTC's IDS solution:

         Information  Distribution  System Executive ("IDS EXEC").  The IDS EXEC
     software  product  integrates  input,  management,  execution and reporting
     activities under a single point of control,  improving efficiency.  The IDS
     EXEC console manages all data input, job resources,  job prioritization and
     production, tracks job status and reports audit and job statistics. The IDS
     EXEC also  intelligently  indexes  source  information  for  convenient and
     timely retrieval irrespective of the storage medium. Additionally, IDS EXEC
     makes it possible to reorder images  submitted in one sequence to any other
     logical  ordering  sequence  specified by the user.  Finally,  the IDS EXEC
     platform  contains a variety of  Internet-specific  applications that offer
     its users Internet-based data input and document viewing.

         Document  Organizer.   Document  Organizer  is  a   client/server-based
     bundling system that analyzes  documents and organizes them for production.
     Document Organizer arranges  large-scale print  applications,  such as bank
     statements or insurance policies,  according to the customer's distribution
     and  retrieval  requirements.   This  allows  customers  to  deliver  their
     important  information  according  to  priority,  production  process,  and
     delivery schedule.

         Page  Handler.  Page  Handler  is a  high-speed  electronic  page-print
     interpreter that accepts  mainframe print  application  input which it then
     transforms into a variety of output formats, including  Internet-compatible
     formats, providing the customer with added flexibility as application needs
     change.

         Computer  Output to Laser Disk  ("COLD")  Integration.  MTC is a value-
     added  reseller of integrated  COLD solutions for document management.

     Film-Based Solutions

     MTC's  film-based  imaging  systems,  an alternative to paper and long-term
electronic  storage,  convert  scanned or digital  information  directly  from a
computer or magnetic  tape to an analog  format for  archiving  on  microfilm or
microfiche. MTC's film-based solutions include:

<PAGE>


     COM  Systems.  MTC is a  leading  manufacturer  of  automated  "cut  fiche"
recording  and  duplicating  systems  and  related  software.  MTC's COM systems
provide an architectural  platform that has universal capability to transfer any
data format to fiche. A key differentiating factor of MTC's COM system is its PC
based client-server  architecture.  MTC's RAPID 16 millimeter  microfilm product
will be released for beta testing in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998.

     Other.  MTC offers a complete line of original and duplicate  microfilm and
chemicals  for use in its COM printer and  duplicator  systems.  MTC  acquires a
significant  portion of its microfilm and media  supplies from Eastman Kodak and
sells them on a drop-ship basis. MTC also supplies spare parts for the worldwide
maintenance  of its installed COM user base.  Maintenance  is  subcontracted  to
third party organizations, for which MTC receives a monthly royalty.

Customers

     MTC  markets  its  products  and  services   principally   to   high-volume
document-intensive  organizations, such as banks, brokerages and other financial
services companies and document-based service providers. Other customers include
businesses  primarily in the  healthcare  industry and  government  agencies who
desire to use imaging  technology  to archive  large  quantities  of  documents.
Current  customers  include over 50 service  bureaus and  organizations  such as
Equifax Inc.,  the Federal  Aviation  Administration,  the Deutsche  Bundesbank,
Deutsche  Bank AG, Royal Bank of Scotland  Group plc, the United  States  Marine
Corps, and Xerox Corporation.

Competition

     The  document   management  industry  is  highly  competitive  and  rapidly
changing.  MTC competes on the basis of breadth of offering,  cost,  flexibility
and customer service.  MTC's strategy of designing its software solutions around
an open  architecture  has allowed its  existing  solutions  to be more  readily
adaptable to changes in the computer industry and more readily acceptable by new
technologies.  MTC believes that these intelligent  software  platforms give its
overall document management solutions a competitive advantage.

     MTC has two direct competitors to its hardware products: Agfa, AG in Europe
and Anacomp worldwide. Indirect competitors include IBM, Fuji, Mobius Management
Systems,  Inc.,  Storage Technology and others. In most cases, MTC's competitors
have longer operating  histories,  greater name  recognition,  and significantly
greater financial,  technical and marketing resources than MTC. While MTC is not
aware of any direct competitors to its software product offerings,  the industry
is rapidly evolving and MTC may face significant competition in the future.

Sales and Marketing

     MTC markets its document management  solutions and services  worldwide.  In
the United States, MTC employs a six person direct sales force. Internationally,
MTC uses a network of exclusive distributors .

     In order to increase its competitive  advantage in certain markets, MTC has
developed a comprehensive  leasing  alternative for its customers.  This leasing
alternative,  commonly  referred to as a price per fiche program  ("PPF"),  is a
bundled COM service  solution  that  involves a monthly lease payment based upon
the  customer's  actual  monthly  microfiche   production,   a  minimum  monthly
production  provision and lease terms of typically three to five years. In order
to meet the changing needs of its customers' financing requirements, MTC intends
to increase its emphasis on PPF programs.  MTC is currently negotiating with its
international  distributors,  along with several institutions that have a global
financing presence, to develop similar PPF programs for international markets.

     MTC's electronic and film-based imaging hardware systems typically range in
price between $200,000 and $1,000,000,  and may represent a significant  capital
commitment  by MTC's  customers,  leading to a lengthy  sales  cycle of up to 24
months.  Accordingly,  MTC's operating results may fluctuate  significantly from
period to period.

Suppliers

     MTC purchases the raw materials needed for both its manufacturing and spare
part supply  operations  from various third party vendors.  MTC believes that it
can source these purchased parts from a variety of competing vendors and that no
single vendor possesses a critical component that cannot be purchased elsewhere.
MTC   currently   subcontracts   its   maintenance   services   to  third  party
organizations.

<PAGE>

     MTC purchases a significant amount of its microfilm and media supplies from
Eastman Kodak.  MTC believes it has a strong  partnership with Eastman Kodak and
the two  parties  are  currently  operating  under  a  signed  vendor  agreement
extending through December 31, 2000. Alternative suppliers are available to MTC,
however, in the event of an interruption in the vendor relationship.

Research and Development

     MTC  believes  that  its  future  revenue  growth  and  profitability  will
principally  depend on its success in  developing  new  products,  services  and
distribution  channels.  MTC expects to  continue  to  evaluate  new product and
service   opportunities  and  engage  in  extensive   research  and  development
activities.  For the year ended September 30, 1997, MTC spent approximately $1.8
million on research and development efforts.

Employees

     As of December 31, 1998, MTC had 66 full-time employees


<PAGE>



                        Intelligent Communications, Inc.

     Intelligent  Communications  Incorporated  ("Intellicom")  provides two-way
satellite  Internet  access  options  utilizing  very  small  aperture  terminal
("VSAT")  technology.  Intellicom focuses its sales penetration efforts on rural
markets,  particularly ISPs, educational  institutions and small businesses.  In
addition   to   providing   Internet   access   options,   Intellicom   provides
Internet-based  applications,  consulting services and full Internet services to
the  marketplaces  it serves.  Intellicom's  access  options  include  both VSAT
dedicated  and  dial-up  Internet  access  (including  ISDN and  direct  network
connectivity).  Intellicom's  other  products  and  services  include Web server
hosting and integration  services,  client software  development and maintenance
services, training and network integration and consulting services. Intellicom's
VSAT network  infrastructure  currently allows network  connectivity  throughout
North America.  Intellicom's  VSAT-based point of presence ("POP") locations can
be placed throughout the 48 lower states as well as in southern Canada and south
Alaska.  Intellicom  may provide its Internet  services in the C-band  satellite
arena in addition to its Ku-band offering. Many international satellites utilize
the C-band  architecture  and  Intellicom  expects to retrofit its equipment for
C-band coverage areas with little difficulty.

     Intellicom's  objective  is to become  the  leading  provider  of  complete
communications solutions using Internet and VSAT-related  technologies to rural,
suburban  and  urban  educational  institutions,   ISPs  and  private  corporate
Intranets.  As a national ISP, Intellicom provides a cost-effective  alternative
for  Internet  services  and  solutions  to rapidly  growing  Internet  customer
networks.  Intellicom  has worked toward  achieving this position by focusing on
building a high performance  network  infrastructure,  integrating and expanding
its  suite of  value-added  products  and  services,  investing  in its  network
operations  and technical  support  infrastructure,  expanding and tailoring its
sales and marketing  efforts to reach its targeted  customers more  effectively,
and building and leveraging relationships with strategic partners.

Products and Services

     Intellicom  provides its customers with a  comprehensive  range of Internet
access options,  applications and consulting services. Intellicom believes that,
over time, its strategic focus on business applications for the Internet and its
niche network  connectivity  options will play a larger role in  differentiating
Intellicom from its  competitors.  Intellicom's  options and services  include a
stable,  low-cost VSAT system based on two-way satellite  technology,  providing
high-speed access to the Internet.  Early in 1998,  Intellicom introduced the T1
Plus product  line as a solution to the  marketplace.  In  addition,  Intellicom
developed  the Edge  Connector  server to enhance the VSAT network  connectivity
system.  This  comprehensive  package of Internet  applications is customized to
work within the VSAT network,  specifically  for the ISP  industry.  Cache Plus,
similar to the Edge Connector,  was created as  Intellicom's  answer to Internet
backbone congestion. The objective of Cache Plus is to move a substantial amount
of the Web,  FTP and NNTP  traffic  from the  Internet  backbone to the `network
edge' via a local  proxy  server.  This  proxy  server  is a `child'  to a large
`parent'  proxy  server at  Intellicom's  data  center in  Fremont,  California.
Connectivity   between  the  child  and  parent  is  accomplished  by  utilizing
Intellicom's  satellite  based  TCP/IP  network and a VSAT antenna at the remote
location.  This VSAT  connection  is  accomplished  with  either a two-way  VSAT
solution or a receive-only VSAT antenna.  The child proxy server is benefited by
the proxy activity from other users on the satellite carrier.  The major benefit
of such  technology  lies in its  ability to cache a majority  of the web's most
popular sites.

     The proxy server  connection  is available  through  three  different  VSAT
service  options  and pricing  packages.  Each  solution  requires a local proxy
server utilizing the ICP protocol standard.  Intellicom makes its Edge Connector
server solution  available and delivers it  pre-configured  to operate as a DNS,
Web,  Telnet,  FTP,  E-Mail and Proxy  server.  This system is based on the Unix
operating system and is available in numerous configurations.
Network address translation is also a configuration option for this server.

     Additionally,  Intellicom offers connectivity  services based on a range of
VSAT,  ISDN and dedicated  leased  circuit  options for  customers  ranging from
115Kbps to 2Mbps data transfer speeds.  The majority of customers use Intellicom
as their  primary  gateway to the  Internet and rely on  Intellicom  to connect,
secure and maintain their network  integrity.  Intellicom designs and out-source
manufactures VSAT equipment specifically for its applications.

     Intellicom  makes a  variety  of other  products  and  services  available,
including Web server hosting and content development  services,  client software
products and  training.  All of these  products and services are  integrated  to
provide  customers with a total solution to their  Internet  application  needs.
Intellicom enables Internet users to purchase access, applications, products and
services,  including  network  integration  services,  through a single  source.
Intellicom's  Network  Operations  Center  continually  monitors  traffic across
Intellicom's  network.  In  addition  to  network  monitoring,  Intellicom  also

<PAGE>

provides technical support to its customers via a toll-free  telephone number 24
hours a day, 7 days a week.

Sales and Marketing

     Intellicom  coordinates  national  advertising  campaigns using intensified
direct  mailings  focusing  on  ISPs,  educational  institutions  and  corporate
intranets.  The  corporate  sales and  marketing  staff will be broken  into the
following three  divisions:  (i) network sales,  (ii) reseller network sales and
(iii) content and hosting sales. Intellicom has begun negotiating  international
alliances and/or partnering  arrangements  with other larger  telecommunications
companies for international marketing and satellite capacity.

     Intellicom is also focusing on building and leveraging  relationships  with
its strategic  partners.  This involves  expanding market coverage by partnering
into new POP  locations  and  building  new  relationships  with other  Internet
products  and  service  providers.  This  focus  will  extend  the  reach of the
Intellicom  network to virtually all major cities and locations  throughout  the
United  States.  By  expanding  Intellicom's  network  coverage,  Intellicom  is
positioning  itself to create  marketing  relationships  with  corporations  and
membership based organizations (e.g. rural electric associations, credit unions,
etc.).  Expanded  network coverage will also allow Intellicom to provide private
labeled network connectivity to its partners.

Competition

     The  market  for  Internet  access   services  is  extremely   competitive.
Intellicom  believes  that its ability to compete  successfully  depends  upon a
number of factors,  including: market presence; the capacity,  reliability,  and
security of its network infrastructure;  the pricing policies of its competitors
and suppliers; the timing and release of new products and services by Intellicom
and its competitors; and industry and general economic trends.

     The  competitors  of  Intellicom  are broken into three  groups:  (i) other
Internet  Access  Providers  including  Netcom  On-Line  Communications,   Inc.,
Performance  Systems  International,   Bolt,  Beranek  and  Newman,  Inc.  (BBN)
(acquired  by  GTE),  Prodigy  and  America  On-Line,  (ii)   telecommunications
companies,  including  MCI, AT&T and Sprint,  and (iii) other VSAT based network
connectivity  companies,  including NSN, CyberSat and Hughes Satellite  Service.
Many  of  these  competitors  have  greater  market  presence,  engineering  and
marketing capabilities and financial, technological and personnel resources than
those of Intellicom.

     While Intellicom believes that the price and performance characteristics of
its products and services are currently  competitive,  increased competition may
result in price  reductions,  reduced gross margin and loss of market share, any
of which could materially affect  Intellicom's  business,  operating results and
financial condition. Many of Intellicom's current and potential competitors have
significantly greater financial,  technical, marketing, and other resources than
Intellicom.  As a result,  they may be able to  respond  more  quickly to new or
emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater
resources to the  development,  promotion,  sale,  and support of their products
than Intellicom. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the
emergence of new industry standards could render Intellicom's  existing products
obsolete and unmarketable.  In addition,  current and potential competitors have
established or may establish cooperative  relationships among themselves or with
third  parties.  Accordingly,  it is possible that new  competitors or alliances
among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. There
can be no assurance that Intellicom will be able to compete successfully against
current or future competitors or that the pressures faced by Intellicom will not
materially  adversely  affect its  business,  operating  results  and  financial
condition.

     Although most of the  established  on line services and  telecommunications
companies  currently  offer only limited  Internet  access,  many have announced
plans to offer expanded Internet access  capabilities.  Intellicom  expects that
all of the major on line services and telecommunications  companies will compete
fully in the Internet  access market and expand the  availability of terrestrial
based dedicated  circuits,  such as ISDN and fiber optics.  Intellicom  believes
that new competitors,  including large  networking,  software,  media, and other
technology  and  telecommunications  companies  will  enter the  wireless  based
Internet access markets,  resulting in even greater  competition for Intellicom.
Certain  companies have obtain or expanded their  Internet  access  products and
services as a result of acquisitions which may permit  Intellicom's  competitors
to devote greater  resources to the development and marketing of new competitive
products and services and the marketing of existing products and services. Also,
the ability of some of  Intellicom's  competitors  to bundle other  services and
products with Internet access  services could place  Intellicom at a competitive
disadvantage.  Intellicom's  competitors  are primarily  using equipment made by
other third party firms, whereas, Intellicom develops its equipment specifically

<PAGE>

for its target markets. The majority of Intellicom  competitors are also focused
offshore at the international markets.

     Due to  increased  competition,  Intellicom  expects to  encounter  pricing
pressures  which could result in significant  reductions in the average  selling
price of  Intellicom's  many  services.  This may  include  the cost of Internet
access  services.  There can be no  assurance  that  Intellicom  will be able to
offset the effects of price  reductions  with an increase in its customer  base,
its revenues, cost reductions, or otherwise.  Also, Intellicom believes that the
industry  will see mergers and  consolidation  in the near  future,  which could
result in greater price and other competition in the industry. Increase price or
other  competition  could also result from erosion of Intellicom's  market share
and could have a material  adverse effect on  Intellicom's  business,  financial
condition, and results of operations.  There can be no assurance that Intellicom
will have the financial resources, technical expertise, or marketing and support
capacity to continue to compete successfully.

Employees and Facilities

     As of December 31, 1998,  Intellicom  had 20 employees  plus four  contract
workers.  None of Intellicom's  employees is currently subject to any collective
bargaining agreement.

     Intellicom operates from thee principal facilities.  Corporate headquarters
are located in a 9,000 square foot office  space rented in Fremont,  California.
Intellicom  leases a 6,300 square foot  warehouse in Hayward,  California  and a
1,400  square  foot  Customer  Service  Center  in  Chippewa  Falls,  Wisconsin.
Intellicom's handles client-side  technical support issues and order fulfillment
through its Customer Service Center in Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin.

Legal Proceedings

     Intellicom has no material pending litigation.

Factors Affecting the Company's Operating Results

     The risks and  uncertainties  described  below are not the only ones facing
us.  Additional  risks and  uncertainties  not presently  known to us or that we
currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the
following risks actually occur, our business,  financial condition or results of
operations  could be materially  adversely  affected.  In such case, the trading
price of our common stock could decline.

     This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains "forward-looking"  statements
that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially
from  those  anticipated  in these  forward-looking  statements  as a result  of
certain  factors,  including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

We Have Operated Our Internet Services Business Only For a Short Period of Time

     We are in the process of selling our non-Internet  related  subsidiaries to
focus on substantial  expansion of our Internet  subsidiary (the "ISP Channel").
We  acquired  the ISP  Channel  in June  1996.  As such,  we have  very  limited
operating  history  and  experience  in  the  Internet  services  business.  The
successful  expansion of our ISP Channel will  require  strategies  and business
operations that differ from those  historically  employed in connection with our
two other businesses.  To be successful, we must develop and market products and
services  that are widely  accepted by consumers  and  businesses at prices that
provide cash flow sufficient to meet our debt service,  capital expenditures and
working  capital  requirements.  Consequently,  we  cannot  assure  you that our
ability to develop or maintain  strategies and business  operations will achieve
positive cash flow and profitability for our ISP Channel.

There  is No Proven  Commercial Acceptance  of  the Internet  Service Division's
Services

     It has become feasible to offer Internet services over existing cable lines
and  equipment  on a broad scale only  recently.  There is no proven  commercial
acceptance  of  cable-based  Internet  services.  There are only a few companies
offering such services,  and none of these  companies are currently  profitable.
Because this industry is in its early stages,  it is currently very difficult to
predict whether  providing  cable-modem  Internet  services will become a viable
business model.

<PAGE>

     We have launched our ISP Channel  service in 19 cable systems in the United
States,  but we  cannot  assure  you  that it will  achieve  broad  consumer  or
commercial  acceptance.  We  currently  only have 1,600  subscribers  to our ISP
Channel  service.  The success of our ISP Channel  service  will depend upon the
willingness  of  subscribers  to pay the  monthly  fees and  installation  costs
associated with the service and to purchase or lease the equipment  necessary to
access the Internet.  Accordingly,  we cannot predict  whether our pricing model
will prove to be viable, whether demand for our services will materialize at the
prices we expect to charge,  or whether current or future pricing levels will be
sustainable.  If we do not  achieve or  sustain  such  pricing  levels or if our
services do not achieve or sustain broad market  acceptance,  then our business,
financial condition, prospects and ability to repay our debts will be materially
adversely affected.

We  Anticipate   Having   Negative  Cash  Flow,   Net  Losses  and   Accumulated
Stockholders' Deficits for the Foreseeable Future

     We have sustained  substantial  losses over the last five fiscal years. For
the fiscal year ended September 30, 1998, we had net losses of $17.3 million and
for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997, we had net losses of $2.6 million.
As of September 30, 1998, we had an  accumulated  stockholders'  deficit of $6.2
million.  We  expect  to incur  substantial  additional  losses  and  experience
substantial  negative  cash  flows as we expand  our ISP  Channel.  The costs of
expansion will include expenses incurred in connection with:

o    installing the equipment  necessary to enable our cable affiliates to offer
     our services;
o    research and development of new product and service offerings;
o    the continued  development of our direct and indirect selling and marketing
     efforts; and 
o    possible charges related to acquisitions,  divestitures, business alliances
     or changing technologies, including the possible acquisition of Intelligent
     Communications, Inc.

     Our  continued  negative  cash flow and net losses may result in  depressed
market  prices  for our  common  stock.  We cannot  assure you that we will ever
achieve favorable operating results or profitability.

We Will Require Substantial Future Capital

     The development of our business will require  substantial capital infusions
as a result of (1) our need to enhance and expand product and service  offerings
to maintain  our  competitive  position  and  increase  market share and (2) the
substantial  investment  in equipment and  corporate  resources  required by the
continued national launching of the ISP Channel. In addition, we anticipate that
the majority of cable  affiliates  with one-way  cable  systems will  eventually
upgrade their cable  infrastructure  to two-way cable systems,  at which time we
will have to  upgrade  our  equipment  on any  affected  cable  system to handle
two-way  transmissions.  We cannot  accurately  predict  whether or when we will
ultimately  achieve  cash flow  levels  sufficient  to support  our  operations,
development  of new products  and  services,  and  expansion of our ISP Channel.
Unless we reach such cash flow levels, we will require  additional  financing to
provide funding for operations.  In this regard, we have announced our intention
to seek up to $150 million in long-term debt financing. In the event we complete
such financing,  we will be highly  leveraged and such debt securities will have
rights or privileges senior to those of our current  shareholders.  In the event
that equity  securities are issued to raise additional  capital,  the percentage
ownership  of our  shareholders  will be reduced,  shareholders  may  experience
additional  dilution  and such  securities  may  have  rights,  preferences  and
privileges  senior to those of our  common  stock.  In the event  that we cannot
generate  sufficient  cash  flow  from  operations,  or are  unable to borrow or
otherwise obtain additional funds on favorable terms to finance  operations when
needed, our business,  financial  condition,  prospects and ability to repay our
debts would be materially adversely affected.

Our Quarterly Results May Fluctuate

     Our quarterly results have fluctuated and will likely continue to fluctuate
significantly from quarter to quarter. In addition,  we are selling MTC and KCI,
our  non-Internet  subsidiaries,  one of which has not been  accounted  for as a
discontinued   operation.   As  a  result,  we  believe  that   period-to-period
comparisons  of our  revenues  and  results of  operations  are not  necessarily
meaningful  and should not be relied upon as indicators  of future  performance.
Many of the  factors  that  could  cause  our  quarterly  operating  results  to
fluctuate significantly in the future are beyond our control.

     Factors attributable to the ISP Channel include, among others:

o    the rate at which we enter into  agreements  with cable  operators  and the
     exclusivity and term of such agreements;
o    the  rate  of  subscription  to  our  Internet   services  and  the  prices
     subscribers pay for such services;
o    changes in the revenue sharing  arrangements  between us and our affiliated
     cable operators;
o    our  ability  and that of our cable  affiliates  to  coordinate  timely and
     effective marketing strategies,  in particular,  our strategy for marketing
     the ISP Channel  service to  subscribers  in such  affiliates'  local cable
     areas;
o    the number of subscribers who retain our Internet services;
o    the quality of our cable affiliates' cable infrastructure;
o    the quality of customer and technical support we are able to provide;
o    the rate at which our  cable  affiliates  can  complete  the  installations
     required to initiate service for new subscribers;
o    the amount and timing of capital  expenditures  and other costs relating to
     the expansion of our ISP Channel;
o    the  introduction  of new Internet  services by us or our  competitors  and
     customer acceptance of such services;
o    price  competition or pricing changes in the Internet or cable  industries;
     and o changes in law and regulation.

     Factors attributable to our MTC business include, among others:

o    the size and timing of customer orders and subsequent shipments;
o    customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products and services;
o    timing of product introductions or enhancements by us or our competitors;
o    market acceptance of new products and services;
o    technological changes in the industry;
o    competitive pricing pressures;
o    accuracy of customer forecasts of end-user demand;
o    changes in the mix of products sold;
o    quality control of products sold; and
o    the timing of our ultimate sale of the MTC business.

     Additional  factors  that may affect  our  quarterly  operating  results in
general include, among others:

o    changes in our operating expenses;
o    expenses relating to potential acquisitions
o    personnel changes;
o    disruption in sources of supply;
o    capital spending;
o    delays of payments by customers; and
o    general economic conditions.

     Because of the foregoing  factors,  we cannot predict with any  significant
degree of certainty our quarterly  revenue and operating  results.  It is likely
that in one or more future quarters our results may fall below the  expectations
of analysts and investors.  In such event, the trading price of our common stock
would likely decrease.

Issuance  of Common  Stock  Pursuant  to  Existing  Obligations  Will  Result in
Dilution to the Common Stockholders

     We have several  obligations to issue common stock.  The issuance of common
stock as a result of these obligations  could result in significant  dilution to
the holders of our common stock. We have reserved a total of 8,274,848 shares of
common  stock  to  provide  for  these  obligations,  although  we  could  issue
materially less than all of such shares.

     We have  reserved  2,760,963  shares of common stock for issuance  upon the
exercise of options and warrants or conversion of our  convertible  subordinated
debentures,  1,513,885  shares of  common  stock  for  issuance  under our cable
affiliate incentive programs,  and 4,000,000 shares of common stock for issuance
upon conversion of our outstanding  series of preferred  stock. In addition,  we
currently  plan to issue an  additional  500,000  shares of common  stock to the
shareholders of Intelligent  Communications,  Inc. as partial  consideration for
the purchase of Intelligent Communications, Inc.

     The  4,000,000  shares of  common  stock  reserved  for  issuance  upon the
conversion  of the  preferred  stock  represent  the  maximum  number  of shares
issuable upon such conversion,  subject to stock splits and similar events.  The

<PAGE>

number of shares of common  stock  that we will  issue  upon  conversion  of the
Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock cannot be determined,  and
may change as the market price of the common stock changes. Generally, decreases
in the market  price of the common  stock  below the initial  conversion  prices
would result in more shares of common stock being issued upon  conversion of the
Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock.

     The maximum conversion price of the Series B Preferred Stock is $13.20, but
may  increase to $14.30 on February  28, 1999 if the market  price of the common
stock on such date is at or above $14.30.  The maximum  conversion  price of the
Series C Preferred Stock is $9.00,  but may increase to $9.75 on May 31, 1999 if
the market price of the common stock on such date is at or above $9.75.

     The  following  table  sets  forth the  number  of  shares of common  stock
issuable upon conversion of the outstanding  preferred stock assuming the market
price of the common  stock is 25%,  50%, 75% and 100% of the market price of the
common stock on December 31, 1998, which was $17.38 per share.

 Percent of Market
    Price          Series B Preferred Stock (1)     Series C Preferred Stock (2)
    -----          -------------------------        -------------------------
     25%                    2,000,000 (3)                     1,752,963
     50%                    1,179,696                           877,490
     75%                      786,162                           847,265
    100%                      776,633                           847,265
- ----------------

  (1) As of December 31, 1998, there were 10,251.56 shares of Series B Preferred
      stock outstanding. Each share has a stated value of $1,000. The conversion
      prices of the Series B Preferred  Stock at 25%,  50%,  75% and 100% of the
      market  price  of  $17.38  would  be  $4.35,  $8.69,  $13.04  and  $13.20,
      respectively.
  (2) As of December 31, 1998,  there were 7,625.39 shares of Series C Preferred
      Stock outstanding. Each share has a stated value of $1,000. The conversion
      prices of the Series C Preferred  Stock at 25%,  50%,  75% and 100% of the
      market  price  of  $14.81  would  be  $4.35,   $8.69,   $9.00  and  $9.00,
      respectively.
  (3) The Series B  Preferred  Stock  cannot  convert  into more than  2,000,000
      shares of our common stock.

     To the extent any of these  shares of common  stock are issued,  the market
price of the common stock may decrease  because of the additional  shares on the
market.  If the actual price of the common stock decreases,  the holders of such
preferred stock could convert into greater amounts of common stock, the sales of
which could  further  depress the stock  price.  In  addition,  the  significant
downward  pressure on the market price of the common stock as the holders of the
preferred  stock  convert  and sell  material  amounts  of  common  stock  could
encourage  short sales by such  holders or others.  Such short sales would place
further downward pressure on the price of the common stock.

     The conversion of the preferred stock and issuance of the common stock, may
result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of common stock
because each holder of preferred stock may ultimately  convert and sell the full
amount issuable upon conversion. The 4.99% ownership limitation contained in the
preferred  stock does not prevent the holders from  converting into common stock
and then  selling such common  stock to stay below the  limitation,  except that
such holders  cannot convert into more than 19.99% of our common stock unless we
have received  shareholder  approval.  The Company  intends to seek  shareholder
approval for conversions in excess of 19.99% at the next Annual Meeting.  In any
event,  the Series B Preferred  Stock and Series C  Preferred  Stock each cannot
convert into more than 2,000,000 shares of our common stock.

     In the event the  2,000,000  share cap for the Series C Preferred  Stock is
reached,  we must either honor conversion  requests over the 2,000,000 share cap
or redeem the remaining  Series C Preferred Stock, at its stated value of $1,000
per share plus accrued but unpaid dividends.

Possible Cash Payments to Holders of Preferred Stock.

     We are required by our  Certificate of  Incorporation  and the rules of the
American  Stock  Exchange to obtain  shareholder  approval prior to issuing more
than 19.99% of our common stock upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock,
Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred  Stock. If we do not obtain such
shareholder  approval,  we will be required to make cash  payments to holders of
the Series B Preferred Stock, or Series C Preferred Stock who attempt to convert
over the 19.99%  limit,  unless the Company  obtains a waiver from the  American
Stock  Exchange  rule or otherwise  ceases to be subject to such rule.  The cash
payments  would be equal to the number of shares of common stock than would have

<PAGE>

been issued absent the 19.99% limit  multiplied by the average closing bid price
to the attempted conversion.

     In the event the 2,000,000  share cap is reached with respect to the Series
C Preferred Stock,  the Company must either honor conversion  requests or redeem
the  remaining  Series C Preferred  Stock.  The market price of our common stock
would have to fall to $3.75 or below for five days  within a thirty day  trading
period to reach the 2,000,000 share cap.

     The following table sets forth the amount of such cash payment assuming (i)
the market price of such common stock is 25%, 50%,  75%,  100%,  125%,  150% and
175% of the market price of the common  stock on December  31,  1998,  which was
$17.38 per share;  (ii) the  floating  rate  mechanism of the Series B Preferred
Stock and  Series C  Preferred  Stock  was in  effect;  and  (iii)  the  maximum
conversion  price of the Series B Preferred  Stock and Series C Preferred  Stock
was not increased.  The actual cash payments may be  significantly  greater than
those listed in the event the market price of our common stock  increases  above
$30.42.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                     Cash Payment for Attempted Conversions
  Percentage of
 Market Price (1)  Series B Preferred Stock (2)  Series C Preferred Stock (2)       Total Cash Payments
 ----------------  ----------------------------  ----------------------------       -------------------

<S>    <C>               <C>                           <C>                             <C>          
  25%  ($4.35)           $   5,736,206                 $   7,625,390                   $  13,361,596
  50%  ($8.69)               4,330,786                     7,625,390                      11,956,176
  75% ($13.04)              10,251,560                     2,163,775                      12,415,335
 100% ($17.38)              13,497,887                     2,883,927                      16,381,814
 125% ($21.73)              16,876,242                     3,605,738                      20,481,980
 150% ($26.07)              20,246,831                     4,325,890                      24,572,721
 175% ($30.42)              23,625,186                     6,047,702                      28,672,888
<FN>


(1)   The conversion  prices of the Series B Preferred Stock at 25%, 50%, 75% of
      $17.38 would be $4.35, $8.69 and $13.04,  respectively.  For market prices
      greater than $13.20,  the conversion price of the Series B Preferred Stock
      would be $13.20. The conversion prices for the Series C Preferred Stock at
      25% and 50% of $17.38 would be $4.35 and $8.69,  respectively.  For market
      prices greater than $9.00,  the conversion price of the Series C Preferred
      Stock would be $9.00.
(2)   The Series B  Preferred  Stock  cannot  convert  into more than  2,000,000
      shares of common stock. Accordingly, cash payments cease once the Series B
      Preferred  Stock has converted  into, or received cash payments in lieu of
      converting  into, an aggregate of 2,000,000  shares of common  stock.  The
      Series C  Preferred  Stock has a  similar  limitation.  However,  once the
      2,000,000 share limit is reached,  whether through cash payments or actual
      conversions,  the  Company  must  either  redeem  the  remaining  Series C
      Preferred Stock or continue to honor conversions.
</FN>
</TABLE>

     Such cash payments will adversely effect the Company's  financial condition
and ability to implement  its business  plan for ISP Channel,  Inc. In addition,
the Company will be required to raise funds elsewhere,  which could be difficult
in the event  stockholder  approval is not  obtained.  If the  Company  does not
receive stockholder  approval,  there can be no assurance that the Company would
be able to obtain  adequate  sources  of  additional  capital.  "Risk  Factors -
Possible Cash Payments to Holders of Preferred Stock."

We Rely  Substantially on Our Cable Affiliates to Provide Our Internet  Services
to Subscribers

     The success of our business  depends upon our  relationship  with our cable
affiliates. Therefore, in addition to economic conditions, market conditions and
factors   relating  to  Internet   service   providers   and  on-line   services
specifically,  our  success and future  business  growth will also be subject to
economic and other factors affecting our cable affiliates.

     We Do Not Have Direct Contact with Our Subscribers

     Because  subscribers  to the ISP  Channel  must  subscribe  through a cable
affiliate,  the cable affiliate (and not SoftNet) will substantially control the
customer  relationship  with the  subscriber.  For  example,  under our existing

<PAGE>

contracts,  cable  affiliates are responsible for important  functions,  such as
billing for and collecting ISP Channel subscription fees and providing the labor
and costs associated with distribution of local marketing materials.

     Failure or Delay by Cable Operators to Upgrade Their Systems

     Certain  ISP Channel  services  are  dependent  on the quality of the cable
networks of our cable affiliates.  Currently,  most cable systems are capable of
providing only information  from the Internet to the subscribers,  and require a
telephone line to carry  information from the subscriber to the Internet.  These
systems are called  "one-way" cable systems.  Cable operators have announced and
begun making major  upgrades to their  systems to increase the capacity of their
networks  and to  enable  traffic  both to and  from  the  Internet  over  their
networks,  so-called "two-way capability." However,  cable system operators have
limited  experience with  implementing  such upgrades.  These  investments  have
placed a significant strain on the financial, managerial,  operational and other
resources  of  cable  system  operators,   most  of  which  already  maintain  a
significant amount of debt.

     Further,  cable  operators must  periodically  renew their  franchises with
city,  county  or  state  governments.  These  governmental  bodies  may  impose
technical  and  managerial  conditions  before  granting  a  renewal,  and these
conditions may cause the cable operator to delay such upgrades.

     In addition,  cable  operators  are  primarily  concerned  with  increasing
television  programming  capacity to compete  with other forms of  entertainment
delivery  systems,  such as  direct  broadcast  satellite.  Consequently,  cable
operators  may  choose  not to  upgrade  their  networks  for  two-way  Internet
capability.  Such upgrades have been, and we expect will continue to be, subject
to change,  delay or cancellation.  Cable  operators'  failure to complete these
upgrades in a timely and satisfactory  manner, or at all, would adversely affect
the market for our products and services in any such operators'  franchise area.
In addition,  cable  operators  may roll-out  Internet  access  systems that are
incompatible  with our high-speed  Internet  access  services.  If repeated on a
broad scale, such failures could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, prospects and ability to repay our debts.

Unavailability of Two-Way Capability in Certain Markets and Its Uncertain Effect
on Subscription Levels

     We provide Internet services to cable systems irrespective of their two-way
capabilities.  For "one-way" cable systems,  we provide  Internet  services over
cable systems to homes with a telephone line return path for data from the home.
In those  circumstances,  our  services  may not provide the high speed  access,
quality of experience and  availability of certain  applications,  such as video
conferencing,  necessary  to attract and retain  subscribers  to the ISP Channel
service.  Subscribers  using  a  telephone  line  return  path  will  experience
downstream data  transmission  speeds to the Internet that are provided by their
analog  modems  (typically  28.8 Kbps).  It is not clear what impact the lack of
two-way capability will have on subscription levels for the ISP Channel.

We Depend on Exclusive Access to Cable Subscribers

     The success of our ISP  Channel is  dependent,  in part,  on our ability to
gain exclusive access to cable  consumers.  Our ability to gain exclusive access
to cable customers depends upon our ability to develop  exclusive  relationships
with cable  operators  that are dominant  within their  geographic  markets.  We
cannot assure that affiliated  cable operators will not face  competition in the
future or that we will be able to establish and maintain exclusive relationships
with cable operators.  Currently, a number of our contracts with cable operators
do not contain  exclusivity  provisions.  Even if we are able to  establish  and
maintain  exclusive  relationships  with cable  operators,  we cannot assure the
ability  to  do  so  on  favorable  terms  or  in  sufficient  quantities  to be
profitable.  In  addition,  we are seeking  affiliations  with a large number of
cable  operators  as  quickly  as  possible  because  we will be  excluded  from
providing  Internet  over cable in those areas  served by cable  operators  with
exclusive arrangements with other Internet service providers. Our contracts with
cable affiliates typically range from three to seven years, and we cannot assure
you that such contracts will be renewed on satisfactory  terms. If the exclusive
relationship  between either us and our cable affiliates or our cable affiliates
and their cable  subscribers is impaired,  if we do not become affiliated with a
sufficient  number of cable  operators,  or if we are not able to  continue  our
relationship  with a cable  affiliate  once the initial term of its contract has
expired, our business,  financial condition,  prospects and ability to repay our
debts could be materially adversely affected.

Impact of Research and Development Activities

     We expect to continue extensive research and development  activities and to
evaluate new product and service  opportunities.  These  activities will require
our continued  investment in research and  development  and sales and marketing,

<PAGE>

which could adversely  affect our short-term  results of operations.  We believe
that future revenue growth and profitability  will depend in part on our ability
to  develop  and  successfully  market new  products  and  services.  Failure to
increase revenues from new products and services,  whether due to lack of market
acceptance,  competition,  technological  change  or  otherwise,  would  have  a
material  adverse  effect on our business  financial  condition,  prospects  and
ability to repay our debts.

Management of Our Expanding Business

     To exploit fully the market for our products and services,  we must rapidly
execute our sales strategy while managing  anticipated growth through the use of
effective planning and operating  procedures.  To manage our anticipated growth,
we must, among other things:

o    continue to develop and improve our  operational,  financial and management
     information systems;
o    hire and train additional qualified personnel;
o    continue to expand and upgrade core technologies; and
o    effectively manage multiple relationships with various customers, suppliers
     and other third parties.

     Consequently,  such  expansion  could  place a  significant  strain  on our
services and support  operations,  sales and administrative  personnel and other
resources.  We may, in the future, also experience  difficulties  meeting demand
for our  products  and  services.  Additionally,  if we are  unable  to  provide
training  and  support  for our  products,  it will take  longer to install  our
products  and  customer  satisfaction  may be lower.  We cannot  assure that our
systems,  procedures or controls  will be adequate to support our  operations or
that  management  will be able to exploit  fully the market for our products and
services. Our failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition,  prospects and ability to repay our
debts.

Non-Exclusivity  of Cable  Franchises;  Risk of  Non-Renewal  or  Termination of
Franchises

     Cable television  companies operate under non-exclusive  franchises granted
by local or state authorities that are subject to renewal and renegotiation from
time to time.  A franchise  is  generally  granted for a fixed term ranging from
five to 15 years,  but in many  cases the  franchise  may be  terminated  if the
franchisee  fails to comply with the material  provisions of the franchise.  The
Cable  Television  Consumer  Protection  and  Competition  Act of 1992 prohibits
franchising  authorities from granting exclusive cable television franchises and
from unreasonably refusing to award additional competitive franchises.  This Act
also permits municipal  authorities to operate cable television systems in their
communities without franchises. We cannot assure that cable television companies
having contracts with us will retain or renew their  franchises.  Non-renewal or
termination  of any such  franchises  would  result  in the  termination  of our
contract with the applicable  cable  operator.  If an affiliated  cable operator
were to lose its franchise, we would seek to affiliate with the successor to the
franchisee.  We cannot,  however,  assure an affiliation with such successor. In
addition,  affiliation  with a successor could result in additional costs to us.
If we cannot affiliate with replacement cable operators, our business, financial
condition,  prospects  and  ability  to repay  our  debts  could  be  materially
adversely affected.

We May Lose Cable Affiliates Through Acquisition by Unaffiliated Cable Operators

     Under many of our initial contracts, if a cable affiliate is acquired by an
unaffiliated  cable  operator  that already has a  relationship  with one of our
competitors  or chooses  not to enter  into a contract  with us, we may lose our
ability to offer  Internet  services  in the area  served by such  former  cable
affiliate  entirely or on an exclusive basis.  Such a loss could have a material
adverse effect on our business,  financial  condition,  prospects and ability to
repay our debts.

We Depend on Third-Party Technology

     The markets for the products and services we use are  characterized  by the
following:

o         intense competition;
o         rapid technological advances;
o         evolving industry standards;
o         changes in subscriber requirements;
o         frequent new product introductions and enhancements; and
o         alternative service offerings.
<PAGE>

     Because of these  factors,  we must rely upon third  parties to develop and
introduce  technologies that enhance our current product and service  offerings.
Reliance on third  parties  enables us to develop and introduce our own products
and  services on a timely and  cost-effective  basis to meet  changing  customer
needs and technological trends in our industries.  If our relationship with such
third  parties  is  impaired  or  terminated,  then we would  have to find other
developers on a timely basis or develop our own  technology.  We cannot  predict
whether  we will be able to obtain  the  third-party  technology  necessary  for
continued  development  and  introduction  of  new  and  enhanced  products  and
services.  In addition,  we cannot  predict  whether we will obtain  third-party
technology on commercially reasonable terms or replace third-party technology in
the event such technology  becomes  unavailable,  obsolete or incompatible  with
future  versions of our products or services.  The absence of or any significant
delay in the replacement of third-party technology would have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition,  prospects and ability to repay our
debts.

We Depend on Third-Party Suppliers

     We  currently  depend on a limited  number of  suppliers  for  certain  key
products and services.  In  particular,  we depend on Excite,  Inc. for national
content  aggregation,  3Com  Corporation  and Com21,  Inc. for headend and cable
modem equipment,  Cisco Systems, Inc. for specific network routing and switching
equipment,  and,  among  others,  MCI  Communications  Corporation  ("MCI")  for
national  Internet  backbone  services.  Certain of our cable  modem and headend
equipment  suppliers are in litigation over their patents.  We could  experience
disruptions  in the delivery or increases in the prices of products and services
purchased from vendors as a result of this intellectual property litigation.  We
cannot  predict when delays in the delivery of key components and other products
may occur due to shortages  resulting from the limited number of suppliers,  the
financial  or other  difficulties  of such  suppliers  or the  possible  limited
availability in the suppliers' underlying raw materials. In addition, we may not
have  adequate  remedies  against such third  parties as a result of breaches of
their  agreements with us. The inability to obtain  sufficient key components or
to develop  alternative  sources for such  components  could result in delays or
reductions  in our product  shipments.  If that were to happen,  it could have a
material  adverse  effect on our  customer  relationships,  business,  financial
condition, prospects and ability to repay our debts.

We Depend on Third Party Carriers

     Our success will depend upon the capacity,  reliability and security of the
network  used  to  carry  data  between  our  subscribers  and the  Internet.  A
significant  portion of such network is owned by third parties,  and accordingly
we have no control over its quality and maintenance.  We rely on cable operators
to maintain their cable systems. In addition,  we rely on other third parties to
provide a connection from the cable system to the Internet.  Currently,  we have
transit agreements with MCI, WorldCom, Sprint Communications Company, and others
to support the exchange of traffic between our network operations center,  cable
system and the  Internet.  The failure of any other link in the  delivery  chain
resulting in an  interruption  of our operations  would have a material  adverse
effect on our business, financial condition,  prospects and ability to repay our
debts.

We Experience Intense Competition in Our Markets

     The markets for our products and services are intensely competitive, and we
expect  competition  to  increase  in the future.  Many of our  competitors  and
potential  competitors  have  substantially  greater  financial,  technical  and
marketing  resources,  larger  subscriber  bases,  longer  operating  histories,
greater name recognition and more established relationships with advertisers and
content and  application  providers than we do. Such  competitors may be able to
undertake more extensive  marketing  campaigns,  adopt more  aggressive  pricing
policies and devote substantially more resources to developing Internet services
or on-line  content  than we can. We cannot  predict  whether we will be able to
compete  successfully  against current or future competitors or that competitive
pressures  faced  by us will  not  materially  adversely  affect  our  business,
financial  condition,  prospects or ability to repay our debts.  Any increase in
competition could reduce our gross margins,  require increased spending by us on
research and  development  and sales and  marketing,  and  otherwise  materially
adversely  affect our business,  financial  condition,  prospects and ability to
repay our debts.

     We face competition from many sources, which include:

o         Other cable-based access providers;
o         Telephony-based access providers; and
o         Alternative technologies, such as telecom-related solutions

<PAGE>

     Cable-based Access Providers

     In the cable-based segment of the Internet access industry, we compete with
other  cable-based  data services that are seeking to contract with cable system
operators.   These   competitors   include  (1)  systems   integrators  such  as
Convergence.com,  Online System  Services,  HSAnet and Frontier  Communications'
Global Center  business,  and (2) Internet  service  providers such as Earthlink
Network, Inc. ("Earthlink"),  MindSpring Enterprises, Inc., and IDT Corporation.
Several cable system operators have begun to provide high-speed  Internet access
services  over  their  existing  networks.  The  largest of these  cable  system
operators are CableVision Systems Corporation,  Comcast Corporation ("Comcast"),
Cox Enterprise,  Inc. ("Cox"), MediaOne Group, Inc.,  Tele-Communications,  Inc.
("TCI")  and Time Warner  Inc.  ("Time  Warner").  TCI,  Cox and Comcast  market
through At Home  Corporation  ("@Home")  while Time  Warner  plans to market the
RoadRunner  service  through Time Warner's own cable systems as well as to other
cable system operators nationwide.

     Telephony-based Access Providers

     Some  of  our  most   direct   competitors   in  the  access   markets  are
telephony-based  access providers,  including incumbent local exchange carriers,
national interexchange or long distance carriers,  fiber-based competitive local
exchange carriers,  ISPs, online service providers,  wireless and satellite data
service  providers,  and  competitive  local exchange  carriers that use digital
subscriber line  technologies.  Some of these  competitors are among the largest
companies  in  the  country,  including  AT&T  Corp  and  WorldCom,  Inc.  Other
competitors  include BBN Corporation,  Earthlink,  Netcom Online  Communications
Services,  Inc.,  Concentric  Network,  and PSInet Inc.  Internet access via the
existing  telephone  infrastructure  is widely  available and  inexpensive,  and
barriers to entry are low.  The result is a highly  competitive  and  fragmented
market.

     Some of our  potential  competitors  are offering  diversified  packages of
telecommunications  services to residential customers. If these companies bundle
Internet access service with other telecommunications services, then we would be
at a competitive disadvantage. Many of these companies are offering (or may soon
offer)  technologies  that  will  attempt  to  compete  with  some or all of our
Internet  data service  offerings.  The bases of  competition  in these  markets
include:

o        transmission speed;
o        reliability of service;
o        ease of access;
o        ratio of price to performance;
o        ease of use;
o        content quality;
o        quality of presentation;
o        timeliness of content;
o        customer support;
o        brand recognition; and
o        operating experience and revenue sharing.

     Alternative Technologies

     In  addition,  the market for  high-speed  data  transmission  services  is
characterized  by  several   competing   technologies   that  offer  alternative
solutions.    Competitive    technologies   include   telecom-related   wireline
technologies, such as integrated services digital network and digital subscriber
line   technologies,   and  wireless   technologies  such  as  local  multipoint
distribution service,  multichannel  multipoint  distribution service and direct
broadcast  satellite.  Our prospects  may be impaired by Federal  Communications
Commission ("FCC") rules and regulations,  which are designed, at least in part,
to increase competition in video and related services.  The FCC has also created
a General Wireless  Communications Service in which licensees are afforded broad
latitude in defining the nature and service area of the communications  services
they  offer.  The full  impact of the General  Wireless  Communications  Service
remains to be seen.  Nevertheless,  all of these new technologies pose potential
competition  to our  business.  Significant  market  acceptance  of  alternative
solutions for  high-speed  data  transmission  could decrease the demand for our
services if such  alternatives  are viewed as providing  faster access,  greater
reliability,   increased  cost-effectiveness  or  other  advantages  over  cable
solutions. Competition from telecom-related solutions is expected to be intense.

<PAGE>

     We cannot  predict  whether and to what extent  technological  developments
will have a  material  adverse  effect on our  competitive  position.  The rapid
development of new competing  technologies and standards increases the risk that
current or new competitors could develop products and services that would reduce
the  competitiveness  of our products and services.  If that were to happen,  it
could have a  material  adverse  effect on our  business,  financial  condition,
prospects and ability to repay our debts.

Increased Usage May Strain Our Capacity

     Because our ISP Channel service has been operational for a relatively short
period of time,  our  ability to  connect  and  manage a  substantial  number of
on-line subscribers at high transmission speeds is unknown. In addition, we face
risks  related to our ability to scale up to expected  subscriber  levels  while
maintaining superior performance. While peak downstream data transmission speeds
across the cable network  approaches  30 megabits per second  ("Mbps") in each 6
MHz  channel,  the actual  downstream  data  transmission  speeds for each cable
subscriber will be significantly slower and will depend on a variety of factors,
including:

o    actual speed provisioned for the subscriber's cable modem (for example, 500
     Kbps);
o    quality of the server used to deliver  content (for  example,  computer CPU
     speed and memory)
o    overall Internet traffic congestion;
o    the number of active subscribers on a given 6 MHz channel at the same time;
o    the capability of cable modems used; and o the service quality of the cable
     affiliates' cable networks.

     As the number of subscribers  increases,  it may be necessary for our cable
affiliates to add  additional 6 MHz channels in order to maintain  adequate data
transmission  speeds  from the  Internet.  These  additions  would  render  such
channels unavailable to such cable affiliates for video or other programming. We
cannot assure you that our cable affiliates will provide additional capacity for
this purpose.  On two-way cable systems,  the  transmission  data channel to the
Internet  is  located in a range not used for  broadcast  by  traditional  cable
networks and is more  susceptible to  interference  than the  transmission  data
channel from the Internet,  resulting in a slower peak transmission speed to the
Internet. In addition to the factors affecting data transmission speeds from the
Internet , the interference  level in the cable affiliates' data broadcast range
to the Internet can  materially  affect actual data  transmission  speeds to the
Internet.  The actual  data  delivery  speeds  realized by  subscribers  will be
significantly  lower than peak data transmission  speeds and will vary depending
on the subscriber's hardware,  operating system and software configurations.  We
cannot  assure you that we will be able  achieve or maintain  data  transmission
speeds high enough to attract  and retain our  planned  numbers of  subscribers,
especially as the number of subscribers to our services grows.  Consequently,  a
perceived  or actual  failure  by us to  achieve  or  maintain  high  speed data
transmission  could  significantly  reduce  consumer demand for our services and
have a material adverse effect on our business,  financial condition,  prospects
and ability to repay our debts.

Risk of System Failure

     Our  operations  are dependent upon our ability to support a highly complex
network  and avoid  damages  from  fires,  earthquakes,  floods,  power  losses,
telecommunications failures, network software flaws, transmission cable cuts and
similar  events.  The  occurrence  of  any  one  of  these  events  could  cause
interruptions  in the  services  we  provide.  In  addition,  the  failure of an
incumbent  local  exchange  carrier or other  service  provider  to provide  the
communications  capacity  we  require,  as  a  result  of  a  natural  disaster,
operational  disruption or any other reason,  could cause  interruptions  in the
services we provide.  Any damage or failure  that  causes  interruptions  in our
operations  could  have a material  adverse  effect on our  business,  financial
condition, prospects and ability to repay our debts.

Internet-Related Security Risks

     While we have taken substantial security measures, our networks or those of
our cable affiliates may be vulnerable to unauthorized access,  computer viruses
and other disruptive  problems.  Internet  service  providers and online service
providers  have  experienced  in the past,  and may  experience  in the  future,
interruptions in service as a result of the accidental or intentional actions of
Internet users.  Unauthorized  access by current and former  employees or others
could also  potentially  jeopardize  the  security of  confidential  information
stored in our  computer  systems and those of our  subscribers.  Such events may
result in our  liability to our  subscribers  and may deter others from becoming
subscribers,  which  could  have a  material  adverse  effect  on our  business,
financial  condition,  prospects  and  ability to repay our debts.  Although  we
intend to continue using industry-standard security measures, such measures have

<PAGE>

been circumvented in the past, and we cannot assure you that these measures will
not be  circumvented  in the  future.  Moreover,  we have no  control  over  the
security measures that our cable affiliates adopt.  Eliminating computer viruses
and alleviating other security problems may cause our subscribers  delays due to
interruptions or cessation of service. Such delays could have a material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition,  prospects and ability to repay our
debts.

     We Must  Provide  High-Quality  Content  and the  Market  for  High-Quality
Content Has Only Recently Begun to Develop

     A key part of our strategy is to provide  Internet users a more  compelling
interactive  experience than the one currently available to customers of dial-up
Internet  service  providers and online service  providers.  We believe that, in
addition  to  providing  high-speed,  high-performance  Internet  access,  to be
successful we must also develop and aggregate  high-quality  multimedia content.
Our success in providing and aggregating such content will depend in part on:

o    our ability to develop a customer base large enough to justify  investments
     in the development of such content;

o    the  ability  of  content  providers  to create  and  support  high-quality
     multimedia content; and

o    our ability to aggregate  content  offerings in a manner  subscribers  find
     attractive.

     We cannot  assure you that we will be  successful  in these  endeavors.  In
addition,  the market for  high-quality  multimedia  Internet  content  has only
recently  begun to develop  and is rapidly  evolving,  and there is  significant
competition  among Internet service  providers and online service  providers for
obtaining such content.  If the market fails to develop, or develops more slowly
than expected, or if competition  increases,  or if our content offerings do not
achieve  or  sustain  market  acceptance,  our  business,  financial  condition,
prospects and ability to repay our debts will be materially adversely affected.

We Will Depend in Part on Advertising Revenues

     The  success  of our ISP  Channel  depends  in part on our  ability to draw
advertisers to the ISP Channel.  We expect to derive  significant  revenues from
advertisements  placed on  co-branded  and ISP  Channel  web  pages  and  "click
through"  revenues from products and services  purchased  through links from the
ISP  Channel to  vendors.  We believe  that we can  leverage  the ISP Channel to
provide  demographic  information  to  advertisers  to help them  better  target
prospective  customers.  Nonetheless,  we have  not  generated  any  significant
advertising revenue yet and we cannot assure you that advertisers will find such
information  useful  or will  choose  to  advertise  through  the  ISP  Channel.
Therefore,  we cannot  assure  you that we will be able to  attract  advertising
revenues in quantities and at rates that are  satisfactory to us. The failure to
do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
prospects and ability to repay our debts.

Risks Associated with Promoting the ISP Channel Brand

     We believe that  establishing  and  maintaining  the ISP Channel  brand are
critical to attract and expand our subscriber base. Promotion of the ISP Channel
brand will depend on several factors, including:

o    our success in  providing  high-speed,  high-quality  consumer and business
     Internet products, services and content;
o    the marketing efforts of our cable affiliates; and
o    the reliability of our cable affiliates' networks and services.

     We cannot  assure you that any of these  factors will be achieved.  We have
little control over our cable  affiliates'  marketing efforts or the reliability
of their networks and services.

     If consumers  and  businesses  do not  perceive  our existing  products and
services as high quality or we introduce  new products or services or enter into
new  business  ventures  that  are  not  favorably  received  by  consumers  and
businesses, then we will be unsuccessful in building brand recognition and brand
loyalty in the  marketplace.  In  addition,  to the extent  that the ISP Channel
service is unavailable, we risk frustrating potential subscribers who are unable
to access our products and services.

     Furthermore,  we may need to devote  substantial  resources  to create  and
maintain  a distinct  brand  loyalty  among  customers,  to  attract  and retain
subscribers,  and to  promote  and  maintain  the ISP  Channel  brand  in a very

<PAGE>

competitive  market.  If we are  unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining the
ISP Channel brand or if we incur excessive expenses in promoting and maintaining
our brand, our business, financial condition, prospects and ability to repay our
debts would be materially adversely affected.

Billing and Collections Risks

     We have  recently  begun the  process of  designing  and  implementing  our
billing and  collections  system for the ISP Channel.  We intend to bill for our
services over the Internet and, in most cases, to collect these invoices through
payments  received via the  Internet.  Such  invoices and payments have security
risks.  Given the  complexities  of such a system,  we cannot assure you that we
will be successful in developing  and launching the system in a timely manner or
that we will be able to scale the system  quickly and  efficiently if the number
of subscribers requiring such a billing format increases.  Currently,  our cable
affiliates are  responsible  for billing and collection for our Internet  access
services.  As a result,  we have  little or no  control  over the  accuracy  and
timeliness  of the invoices or over  collection  efforts.  Given our  relatively
limited  history with billing and  collection for Internet  services,  we cannot
predict  the  extent  to which we may  experience  bad debts or our  ability  to
minimize such bad debts. If we encounter  significant  problems with our billing
and  collections  process,  our  business,  financial  condition,  prospects and
ability to repay our debts could be materially adversely affected.

We Depend on the Growth and Evolution of the Internet

     Market acceptance of our Internet services  substantially  depends upon the
growth  and  evolution  of the  Internet  in ways that are best  suited  for our
products and services.  High-speed  cable-based  Internet  access is of greatest
value to consumers of  multimedia  and other  bandwidth-intensive  content.  The
nature of the content available over the Internet and the technologies available
to access that content are evolving rapidly, and thus, we cannot assure you that
those  applications most favorable to our services and technology will be widely
accepted by the marketplace.

     Because  the number of  Internet  users and level of use  continue  to grow
significantly,  we cannot  assure you that the Internet  infrastructure  will be
able to support this increased  demand or that the performance or reliability of
the  Internet  will not be  adversely  affected.  The  Internet  could  lose its
commercial  viability  due to  delays  in the  development  or  adoption  of new
standards to handle  increased  levels of Internet  activity.  In  addition,  we
cannot assure you that the infrastructure or complementary services necessary to
make  the  Internet  a  viable  commercial  marketplace  will be  developed.  In
particular,  the Internet has only recently  become a medium for advertising and
electronic commerce. If the necessary  infrastructure or complementary  services
or  facilities  are not  developed,  or if the Internet does not become a viable
commercial marketplace, our business, financial condition, prospects and ability
to repay our debts could be materially adversely affected.

Potential Liability for Defamatory or Indecent Content

     The law  relating to  liability of Internet  service  providers  and online
service  providers  for  information  carried on or  disseminated  through their
networks is currently unsettled. A number of lawsuits have sought to impose such
liability for defamatory speech and indecent  materials.  Congress has attempted
to impose such liability, in some circumstances,  for transmission of obscene or
indecent  materials.  In one  case,  a court  has held  that an  online  service
providers  could be found  liable for  defamatory  matter  provided  through its
service,  on the ground that the service  provider  exercised  active  editorial
control over  postings to its service.  Because of the  potential  liability for
materials  carried  on or  disseminated  through  our  systems,  we may  have to
implement  measures to reduce our exposure to such liability.  Such measures may
require the  expenditure  of  substantial  resources or the  discontinuation  of
certain  products or services.  Any  imposition  of liability on our Company for
information  carried on the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition, prospects and ability to repay our debts.

Potential Liability for Information Retrieved and Replicated

     Because subscribers download and redistribute  materials that are cached or
replicated by us in connection with our Internet services,  claims could be made
against  us or our  cable  affiliates  under  both  U.S.  and  foreign  law  for
defamation,  negligence,  copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories
based on the nature and  content of such  materials.  You should know that these
types of claims have been successfully brought against online service providers.
In particular,  copyright and trademark laws are evolving both  domestically and
internationally, and it is uncertain how broadly the rights provided under these
laws  will be  applied  to  on-line  environments.  It is  impossible  for us to
determine who the potential  rights holders may be with respect to all materials
available through our services.  In addition,  a number of third-party owners of

<PAGE>

patents  have  claimed  to hold  patents  that  cover  various  forms of on-line
transactions  or on-line  technology.  As with other online  service  providers,
patent  claims  could  be  asserted  against  us  based  upon  our  services  or
technologies.  Our  liability  insurance  may not cover these types of potential
claims or may not be  adequate to  indemnify  us for all  liability  that may be
imposed.  Any  liability  not  covered by  insurance  or in excess of  insurance
coverage  could  have a  material  adverse  effect  on our  business,  financial
condition, prospects and ability to repay our debts.

Risks of  Developing  New Products and Services in the Face of Rapidly  Evolving
Technology

     Our Products and Services

     Our future  development  efforts may not result in commercially  successful
products and  services or our products and services may be rendered  obsolete by
changing  technology,  new industry  standards or new product  announcements  by
competitors.

     For  example,  we  expect  digital  set-top  boxes  capable  of  supporting
high-speed Internet access services to be commercially  available in the next 18
months.  Set top boxes will enable  subscribers to access the Internet without a
computer.  Although the widespread  availability of set-top boxes could increase
the demand for our  Internet  service,  the demand for  set-top  boxes may never
reach the level we and industry experts have estimated. Even if set-top boxes do
reach this  level of  popularity,  we cannot  assure you that we will be able to
capitalize on such demand.  If this scenario occurs or if other  technologies or
standards applicable to our products or services become obsolete or fail to gain
widespread  commercial  acceptance,  then  our  business,  financial  condition,
prospects and ability to repay our debts will be materially adversely affected.

     Our ability to adapt to changes in technology and industry  standards,  and
to develop and introduce new and enhanced products and service  offerings,  will
determine  whether we can maintain or improve our  competitive  position and our
prospects for growth.  However,  the following factors may hinder our efforts to
introduce and sell new products and services:

o    rapid  technological   changes  in  the  Internet  and   telecommunications
     industries;
o    the lengthy product approval and purchase process of our customers; and
o    our reliance on third-party  technology for the development of new products
     and services.

     Suppliers' Products

     The technology underlying our capital equipment, such as headends and cable
modems,  continues  to evolve  and,  accordingly,  our  equipment  could  become
out-of-date or obsolete prior to the time we originally  intended to replace it.
If this  occurs,  we may need to  purchase  substantial  amounts of new  capital
equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, prospects and ability to repay our debts.

     Competitors' Products

     The introduction by our competitors of products or services  embodying,  or
purporting to embody, new technology could also render our existing products and
services,  as well as products  or  services  under  development,  obsolete  and
unmarketable.  Internet,  telecommunications and cable technologies are evolving
rapidly. Many large corporations,  including large telecommunications providers,
Regional Bell Operating  Companies  ("RBOCs") and  telecommunications  equipment
providers,  as well as large cable system operators,  regularly announce new and
planned  technologies and service offerings that could impact the market for our
services.  The announcements can delay purchasing decisions by our customers and
confuse the marketplace  regarding  available  alternatives.  Such announcements
could,  in the  future,  adversely  impact our  business,  financial  condition,
prospects and ability to repay our debts.

     In  addition,  we cannot  assure  you that we will have the  financial  and
manufacturing  resources  necessary to continue  successful  development  of new
products or services based on emerging  technologies.  Moreover,  due to intense
competition,  there may be a time-limited market opportunity for our cable-based
consumer and business Internet services. Our services may not achieve widespread
acceptance  before  competitors  offer  products  and  services  with  speed and
performance  similar to our  current  offerings.  In  addition,  the  widespread
adoption of new Internet or telecommuting technologies or standards, cable-based
or  otherwise,  could  require  substantial  and  costly  modifications  to  our
equipment,  products and services and could  fundamentally  alter the character,

<PAGE>

viability and  frequency of  Internet-based  advertising,  either of which could
have a material adverse effect on our business,  financial condition,  prospects
and ability to repay our debts.

Risks Related to Our Purchase of Intelligent Communications, Inc.

     On November  22,  1998,  we signed an  agreement  to  purchase  Intelligent
Communications,  Inc., a provider of two-way  satellite  Internet access options
using very small aperture terminal ("VSAT")  technology.  We expect to close the
purchase of  Intelligent  Communications  by June 30,  1999,  although we cannot
assure you that the transaction will close on schedule,  if at all. Acquisitions
involve many risks including  potential negative effects on our reported results
of operations from acquisition-related  charges and amortization of goodwill and
purchased technology. In addition, the Intelligent Communications acquisition is
structured as a purchase by us of all of the  outstanding  stock of  Intelligent
Communications.  As a result, upon completion of the acquisition, we will assume
all  liabilities of Intelligent  Communications.  It is possible that we are not
aware of all of the  liabilities  of  Intelligent  Communications  and that upon
completion of the acquisition,  we will have assumed greater liabilities that we
expected.

     As with mergers generally,  this merger presents  important  challenges and
risks.  Achieving the anticipated  benefits of the merger will depend,  in part,
upon whether the integration of the two companies'  businesses is achieved in an
efficient, cost-effective and timely manner, but we cannot assure that this will
occur.  The successful  combination of the two  businesses  will require,  among
other  things,  the timely  integration  of the  companies'  product and service
offerings  and the  coordination  of the  companies'  research  and  development
efforts. We cannot assure you that integration will be accomplished smoothly, on
time  or  successfully.  Although  the  management  teams  of both  SoftNet  and
Intelligent  Communications believe that the merger will benefit both companies,
we cannot  assure you that the  merger  will be  successful.  In  addition,  the
purchase of Intelligent Communications, Inc. presents new risks to us, including
the following:

     Dependence on VSAT Market

     One of the reasons we have agreed to  purchase  Intelligent  Communications
was to be able to  provide  two-way  satellite  Internet  access  options to our
customers  using  VSAT  satellite  technology.  However,  the  market  for  VSAT
communications networks and services may not continue to grow or VSAT technology
may be replaced by an  alternative  technology.  A  significant  decline in this
market or the  replacement  of the existing VSAT  technology  by an  alternative
technology could adversely affect our business,  financial condition,  prospects
and ability to repay our debts.

     Risk of Damage, Loss or Malfunction of Satellite

     The  loss,  damage  or  destruction  of  any  of  the  satellites  used  by
Intelligent  Communications  as a result  of  military  actions  or acts of war,
anti-satellite devices, electrostatic storm or collision with space debris, or a
temporary  or permanent  malfunction  of any of these  satellites,  would likely
result in interruption of Internet services we provide over the satellites which
could adversely affect our business, financial condition,  prospects and ability
to repay our debts.

     In addition,  use of the satellites to provide Internet services requires a
direct line of sight  between the satellite and the cable headend and is subject
to distance and rain  attenuation.  In certain  markets which  experience  heavy
rainfall,  transmission  links must be  engineered  for  shorter  distances  and
greater power to maintain  transmission  quality.  Such engineering  changes may
increase the cost of providing service.

     Equipment Failure and Interruption of Service

     Our  operations  will  require that its network,  including  the  satellite
connections  operate on a  continuous  basis.  It is not unusual  for  networks,
including switching  facilities to experience periodic service  interruption and
equipment failures.  It is therefore possible that the network facilities we use
may from time to time  experience  interruptions  or equipment  failures,  which
would negatively affect consumer  confidence as well as our business  operations
and reputation.

     Dependence on Leases for Satellites

     Intelligent Communications currently leases satellite space from GE. If for
any reason, the leases were to be terminated, we cannot assure you that we could
renew the leases for the satellites on favorable  terms,  if at all. We have not
identified  alternative providers and believe that any new leases would probably

<PAGE>

be more  costly to us. In any case,  we cannot  assure  you that an  alternative
provider of satellite  services would be available,  or, if available,  would be
available on terms favorable to us.

     Government Regulation

     The  VSAT  satellite  industry  is  a  highly  regulated   industry,   both
domestically  and  internationally.  In the United States,  operation and use of
VSAT satellites  requires licenses from the Federal  Communications  Commission.
The U.S.  government  generally  reserves the right to interrupt  service during
periods  of  national  emergency  when  U.S.  national  security  interests  are
affected. The threat of such interruptions or service could adversely affect our
ability to market our Internet services to certain end-user customers.

     As a lessee  of  satellite  space,  we could in the  future  be  indirectly
subject to new laws, policies or regulations or changes in the interpretation or
application of existing laws,  policies or regulations,  that modify the present
regulatory environment in the United States.

     While we believe that our lessors will be able to obtain all U.S.  licenses
and authorizations  necessary to operate effectively,  we cannot assure you that
we our lessors will be successful in doing so. Our failure to indirectly  obtain
some or all necessary licenses or approvals could have a material adverse effect
on our business, financial condition, prospects and ability to repay our debts.

Acquisition-Related Risks

     In addition to the recent acquisition of Intelligent Communications,  Inc.,
we may acquire other  businesses  that we believe will  complement  our existing
business.  We cannot predict if or when any prospective  acquisitions will occur
or the likelihood that they will be completed on favorable terms.

     Acquiring a business involves many risks, including:

o    potential disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of resources and
     management time;
o    incurrence of unforeseen obligations or liabilities
o    possible inability of management to maintain uniform  standards,  controls,
     procedures and policies;
o    difficulty assimilating the acquired operations and personnel;
o    risks of  entering  markets  in which we have  little  or no  direct  prior
     experience; and
o    potential  impairment  of  relationships  with  employees or customers as a
     result of changes in management.

     We cannot assure that we will make any acquisitions or that we will be able
to obtain  additional  financing for such  acquisitions,  if  necessary.  If any
acquisitions  are made,  we cannot  assure that we will be able to  successfully
integrate  the  acquired  business  into our  operations  or that  the  acquired
business will perform as expected.

We Depend on Certain Key Personnel

     Our success  depends,  in large part,  on our ability to attract and retain
qualified  technical,  marketing,  sales  and  management  personnel.  With  the
expansion of our ISP Channel,  we are currently seeking new employees.  However,
competition  for such personnel is intense in our business,  and thus, we may be
unsuccessful  in our  hiring  efforts.  To launch our ISP  Channel  concept on a
large-scale  basis,  we have recently  assembled a new management  team, most of
whom have been with us for less than six  months.  The loss of any member of the
new team,  or failure to attract  or retain  other key  employees,  could have a
material  adverse  effect on our business,  financial  condition,  prospects and
ability to repay our debts.

Impact of Direct and Indirect Government Regulation on Our Business

     Currently,  neither the FCC nor any other  federal or state  communications
regulatory agency directly regulates our services.  However,  any changes in law
or regulation relating to Internet connectivity and  telecommunications  markets
could affect the nature, scope and prices of our services.  Such changes include
those   that   directly   or   indirectly   affect   costs,   limit   usage   of
subscriber-related   information   or  increase  the   likelihood  or  scope  of
competition from the RBOCs or other telecommunications companies.


<PAGE>

     Possibility of Changes in Law or Regulation

     For example,  proceedings are pending at the FCC to determine whether,  and
to what extent, ISPs should be considered  "telecommunications carriers" and, if
so, whether they should be required to contribute to the Universal Service Fund.
Although the FCC has decided for the moment that ISPs are not telecommunications
carriers,  that  decision  is not yet final and is being  challenged  by various
parties,  including the RBOCs. Some members of Congress have also challenged the
FCC's conclusion. Congressional dissatisfaction with the FCC's conclusions could
lead to further changes to the FCC's governing law. The FCC is also  considering
whether to approve a proposed  merger  between AT&T and TCI, which was announced
by the two  companies on June 24, 1998.  A number of parties,  particularly  the
OSPs,  have argued that the FCC should approve the merger only if the Commission
requires the AT&T/TCI  combination to provide  unaffiliated ISPs with unbundled,
open access to the cable  platform  whenever  that  platform is being used by an
AT&T/TCI affiliate to provide Internet services.  Other parties have argued that
the  FCC  should  examine   industry-wide  issues  surrounding  open  access  to
cable-provided  Internet  service in a generic  rulemaking,  rather  than in the
specific,  adjudicatory  context of a merger  evaluation.  We cannot predict the
outcome or scope of the FCC's  action.  Nor can we predict the  impact,  if any,
that future legal or regulatory changes might have on our business.

Regulations  Affecting the Cable  Industry May Discourage  Cable  Operators from
Upgrading Their Systems

     In addition,  regulation of cable  television may affect the speed at which
our cable affiliates upgrade their cable infrastructures to two-way hybrid fiber
coaxial  cable.  Currently,  our cable  affiliates  have  generally  elected  to
classify the  distribution of our services as "additional  cable services" under
their  respective  franchise  agreements,  and  accordingly  pay franchise fees.
However,  the  election by cable  operators  to classify  Internet  access as an
additional  cable  service  may be  challenged  before  the FCC,  the  courts or
Congress,  and  any  change  in  the  classification  of  service  could  have a
potentially adverse impact on our company.

Our Cable Affiliates May Be Subject to Multiple  Franchise Fees for Distributing
Our Services

     Another  possible risk is that local franchise  authorities may subject the
cable  affiliates to higher or additional  franchise  fees or taxes or otherwise
require them to obtain additional  franchises in connection with distribution of
our services.  There are thousands of franchise authorities in the United States
alone,  and  thus  it  will  be  difficult  or  impossible  for us or our  cable
affiliates to operate under a unified set of franchise requirements.

Possible  Negative  Consequences  if Cable  Operators  are  Classified as Common
Carriers

     If the FCC or another governmental agency classifies cable system operators
as "common  carriers"  or  "telecommunications  carriers"  because  they provide
Internet   services,   or  if  cable  system  operators   themselves  seek  such
classification as a means of limiting their liability,  we could lose our rights
as the exclusive ISP for some of our cable affiliates. In addition, if we or our
cable  affiliates  are  classified  as  common  carriers  or  telecommunications
carriers, we could be subject to  government-regulated  tariff schedules for the
amounts we charge for our  services.  To the  extent we  increase  the number of
foreign  jurisdictions  in which we offer our  services,  we will be  subject to
further governmental regulation.

Import Restrictions May Affect the Delivery Schedules and Costs of Supplies from
Foreign Shippers

     In addition, we obtain some of the components for our products and services
from foreign suppliers which may be subject to tariffs,  duties and other import
restrictions.  Any changes in law or regulation including those discussed above,
whether in the United States or elsewhere, could materially adversely affect our
business, financial condition, prospects and ability to repay our debts.

Failure to Sell KCI and MTC

     We have  announced the planned sale of KCI and MTC to two separate  buyers.
We intend to apply the proceeds of such a sale toward the  repayment of debt and
the  expansion  of our ISP  Channel.  However,  we cannot  assure you that these
efforts  will  be  successful.  In the  absence  of  such a  sale,  management's
attention could be substantially diverted to operate or otherwise dispose of KCI
and MTC.  If a sale of KCI or MTC is  delayed,  its value  could be  diminished.
Moreover,  KCI or MTC could  incur  losses and  operate on a negative  cash flow
basis in the future. Thus, any delay in finding a buyer or failure to sell these
divisions  could  have a  material  adverse  effect on our  business,  financial
condition, prospects and ability to repay our debts.

<PAGE>

Absence of Dividends

     We have not historically paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do
not expect to declare any such dividends in the foreseeable  future.  Payment of
any future dividends will depend upon our earnings and capital requirements, our
debt  obligations and other factors the Board of Directors  deems  relevant.  We
currently intend to retain our earnings,  if any, to finance the development and
expansion of our ISP Channel. Our Certificate of Incorporation (1) prohibits the
payment of cash  dividends  on our common  stock,  without  the  approval of the
holders  of the  convertible  preferred  stock and (2) upon  liquidation  of our
Company,  requires  us to pay the  holders of the  convertible  preferred  stock
before we make any payments to the holders of our common stock.  You should also
know that some of our financing agreements restrict our ability to pay dividends
on our common stock.

Volatility of Stock Price

     The market  price for our common stock has been  volatile in the past,  and
several factors could cause the price to fluctuate  substantially in the future.
These factors include:

o        announcements of developments related to our business;
o        fluctuations in our results of operations;
o        sales of substantial amounts of our securities into the marketplace;
o        general conditions in our industries or the worldwide economy;
o        an outbreak of war or hostilities;
o        a shortfall in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts' 
         expectations;
o        changes in analysts' recommendations or projections;
o        announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors; and
o        changes in our relationships with our suppliers or customers.

     The market price of our common  stock may  fluctuate  significantly  in the
future,  and these  fluctuations  may be unrelated to our  performance.  General
market price declines or market  volatility in the future could adversely affect
the price of our common  stock,  and thus,  the current  market price may not be
indicative of future market prices.

Prospective Anti-Takeover Provisions

     We are a New York corporation. We intend to solicit shareholder approval to
reincorporate  in Delaware.  Both the New York Business  Corporation Law and the
Delaware General Corporation Law contain certain provisions that may discourage,
delay or make a change in control of our Company  more  difficult or prevent the
removal of  incumbent  directors.  In  addition,  our  proposed  Certificate  of
Incorporation  and  Bylaws  for the  Delaware  corporation  would  have  certain
provisions  that have the same  effect.  These  provisions  may have a  negative
impact on the price of our common stock and may discourage  third-party  bidders
from  making  a bid  for  our  Company  or  may  reduce  any  premiums  paid  to
shareholders for their common stock.

Year 2000 Issues

     Many computer  programs have been written using two digits rather than four
to define the  applicable  year.  This poses a problem at the end of the century
because such computer  programs would not properly  recognize a year that begins
with "20" instead of "19".  This, in turn, could result in major system failures
or  miscalculations,  and is  generally  referred to as the "Year 2000 Issue" or
"Y2K  Issue".  We have  formulated  a Y2K Plan to address our Y2K issues and has
created a Y2K Task Force  headed by the  Director  of I/S and Data  Services  to
implement the plan. Our Y2K Plan has six phases:

          Organizational  Awareness - educate our employees,  senior management,
          and the board of directors about the Y2K issue.

          Inventory - complete  inventory of internal business systems and their
          relative priority to continuing business operations.  In addition,this
          phase includes a complete inventory of critical vendors, suppliers and
          service providers and their Y2K compliance status.

          Assessment  -  assessment  of internal  business  systems and critical
          vendors,  suppliers  and service  providers  and their Y2K  compliance
          status.

<PAGE>

          Planning - preparing  the  individual  project plans and project teams
          and other  required  internal and external  resources to implement the
          required solutions for Y2K compliance.

          Execution - implementation of the solutions and fixes.

          Validation - testing the solutions for Y2K compliance.

     Our Y2K Plan will apply to two areas: 

          o  internal business systems;
          o  compliance  by external  customers  and  providers  


Internal Business Systems

     Our internal business systems and workstation business applications will be
a  primary  area of focus.  We are in the  unique  position  of  completing  the
implementation  of new  enterprise-wide  business  solutions to replace existing
manual processes and/or "home grown"  applications  during 1999. These solutions
are  represented  by their  vendors as being fully Y2K compliant We have few, if
any, "legacy" applications that will need to be evaluated for Y2K compliance.

     We  plan  to  have  completed  the  Inventory  and  Assessment   Phases  of
substantially  all critical  internal business systems by January 31, 1999, with
the  Planning  Phase to be  completed  by March  31,  1999.  The  Execution  and
Validation  Phases will be  completed  by August 31,  1999.  We expect to be Y2K
compliant  on all  critical  systems,  which rely on the  calendar  year  before
December 31, 1999.

     Some  non-critical  systems may not be addressed  until after January 2000.
However,  we believe such systems will not cause significant  disruptions in our
operations.

Compliance by External Customers and Providers

     We  are in the  process  of the  inventory  and  assessment  phases  of our
critical suppliers, service providers and contractors to determine the extent to
which our interface  systems are susceptible to those third parties'  failure to
remedy their own Y2K issues.  We expect that  assessment will be complete by May
1999.  To the extent that  responses to Y2K  readiness  are  unsatisfactory,  we
intend to change suppliers,  service providers or contractors to those that have
demonstrated Y2K readiness; but can not be assured that we will be successful in
finding such alternative suppliers, service providers and contractors. We do not
currently have any formal information concerning the status of our customers but
have  received  indications  that  most  of our  customers  are  working  on Y2K
compliance.

Risks Associated with Y2K

     We believe the major risk  associated  with the Y2K Issue is the ability of
our key business  partners and vendors to resolve their own Y2K Issues.  We will
spend a great deal of time over the next several  months,  working  closely with
suppliers and vendors, to assure their compliance.

     Should a situation occur where a key partner or vendor is unable to resolve
their Y2K issue,  we will be in a position to change to Y2K  compliant  partners
and vendors.

Cost to Address Y2K Issues

     Since  we are in the  unique  position  implementing  new  enterprise  wide
business  solutions to replace  existing  manual  processes  and/or "home grown"
applications.,  there will be little,  if any, Y2K changes  required to existing
business applications.  All of the new business applications  implemented (or in
the  process  of  being  implemented  in 1999)  are  represented  as  being  Y2K
compliant.

     We  currently  believe  that  implementing  our Y2K  Plan  will  not have a
material effect on our financial position.

Contingency Plan

     We have not  formulated a contingency  plan at this time but expect to have
specific contingency plans in place prior to September 30, 1999.

Summary

     We anticipate that the Y2K Issue will not have a material adverse effect on
our  financial  position or results of  operations.  There can be no  assurance,
however, that the systems of other companies or government entities, on which we
rely for supplies, cash payments, and future business, will be timely converted,
or that a failure to convert by another  company or government  entities,  would
not have a  material  adverse  effect on our  financial  position  or results of
operations.  If third party service  providers  and vendors,  due to Y2K Issues,
fail to provide us with components,  materials,  or services which are necessary
to deliver our services and product offerings,  with sufficient electrical power
and transportation infrastructure to deliver our services and product offerings,
then any such  failure  could have a material  adverse  effect on our ability to
conduct business, as well as our financial position and results of operations.


Item 2.  Properties

     The Company currently leases 35,550 square feet of office space in Mountain
View,  California.  The Company has signed a seven year lease for  approximately
33,660  square feet in a state of the art facility at 650 Townsend  Street,  San
Francisco,  California.  The Company  intends to move its corporate  offices and
most of the operations associated with ISP Channel to 16,830 square feet of this
space in the first calendar  quarter of 1999.  The remaining  16,830 square feet
will be  available  in the third  calendar  quarter of 1999 to  accommodate  the
Company's  anticipated  expansion.  Subsequent  to this move,  ISP Channel  will
maintain  22,800  square feet of leased space in Mountain  View,  California  to
accommodate its Internet network operation center and call center.

     MTC currently  leases  approximately  25,700 square feet in Mountain  View,
California.

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

     The Company has no material pending litigation.


Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     None


<PAGE>

                                                      PART II

          Item  5.  Market  for  the  Registrant's  Common  Equity  and  Related
          Stockholder Matters

The common  stock of the Company is  principally  traded on the  American  Stock
Exchange ("AMEX:  SOF"). The high and low sales prices for the stock reported on
AMEX for each quarterly period during the past two fiscal years were as follows:

         Quarter Ending                             High              Low      
         ---------------                          -------           -------

         1997
         ----
         December 31, 1996                              6            4-5/16
         March 31, 1997                             7-1/4             4-1/4
         June 30, 1997                              6-3/8             4-1/8
         September 30, 1997                         6-3/4             5-1/8

         1998
         ----
         December 31, 1997                         8-7/16            6-9/16
         March 31, 1998                             7-1/4            6-3/16
         June 30, 1998                             15-3/8            7-3/16
         September 30, 1998                        18-3/8             7-3/4

There were  approximately  311 record  holders of the stock as of  November  30,
1998.  The closing  price for the stock on November  30, 1998 was  $16-3/8.  The
Company paid no dividends on its common stock during the period  October 1, 1994
to September 30, 1998. Other than  restrictions that may be part of various debt
instruments,  the  Company  does  not  have  any  legal  restriction  on  paying
dividends.  However,  the Company does not intend to pay dividends on its common
stock in the foreseeable future.

Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities

Since  December  31,  1997,  the  Company  has  issued  three  series  of its 5%
convertible  preferred stock  denominated  Series A Convertible  Preferred Stock
(the "Series A Preferred  Stock"),  Series B  Convertible  Preferred  Stock (the
"Series B  Preferred  Stock")  and  Series C  Convertible  Preferred  Stock (the
"Series C  Preferred  Stock").  In  addition,  the  Company has agreed to issue,
pursuant to a mutually binding stock purchase agreement,  a fourth series of its
5% convertible  preferred stock denominated Series D Convertible Preferred Stock
(the "Series D Preferred Stock") with the Series A Preferred Stock, the Series B
Preferred Stock and the Series C Preferred  Stock, the ("Preferred  Stock").  In
connection  with the  issuance of the 5% Preferred  Stock,  the Company has also
issued  (or,  in the case of the  Series D  Preferred  Stock,  agreed  to issue)
warrants to purchase its common stock (the "Preferred Warrants").  Proceeds from
the sale of the  Preferred  Stock and the  Preferred  Warrants are being used to
fund the  expenditures  incurred in the  continuing  expansion of the  Company's
Internet  business,  particularly  the ISP  Channel  service,  and  for  general
corporate purposes.

On December 31, 1997, the Company  issued to RGC  International  Investors,  LDC
("RGC"),  5,000 shares of its Series A Preferred  Stock and warrants to purchase
150,000  shares of common  stock  (the  "Series A  Warrants")  for an  aggregate
purchase price of $5,000,000.  $435,000 of the purchase price has been allocated
to the value of the  Series A  Warrants.  The  conversion  price of the Series A
Preferred  Stock is  equal  to the  lower of  $8.28  per  share  and the  lowest
consecutive  two day average closing price of the common stock during the 20 day
trading period  immediately  prior to such conversion.  The sale was arranged by
Shoreline Pacific Institutional Finance, the Institutional Division of Financial
West Group ("SPIF"),  which received a fee of $250,000 plus warrants to purchase
20,000 shares of common  stock,  which are  exercisable  at $6.625 and expire on
December  31,  2000.  The Series A  Preferred  Stock was  issued in a  nonpublic
offering  pursuant to  transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities
Act.  During fiscal 1998, RGC received 101 shares of Series A Preferred Stock as
dividends  paid in kind and  converted  2,000  shares of the Series A  Preferred
Stock, plus accrued dividends,  into 299,946 shares of common stock.  Subsequent
to September 30, 1998,  RGC  converted  the  remaining  3,101 shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, plus accrued dividends, into 413,018 shares of common stock.

On May 28,  1998,  the Company  issued to RGC and  Shoreline  Associates  I, LLC
("Shoreline"),  9,000 and 1,000 shares, respectively,  of its Series B Preferred
Stock and  warrants to  purchase  180,000 and 20,000  shares,  respectively,  of
common  stock (the  "Series B  Warrants")  for an  aggregate  purchase  price of
$10,000,000.  $900,000 of the purchase  price has been allocated to the value of
the Series B Warrants.  Prior to February 28, 1999, the conversion  price of the
Series B  Preferred  Stock  is  equal  to  $13.20  per  share.  Thereafter,  the
conversion price of the Series B Preferred Stock is equal to the lower of $13.20

<PAGE>

per share and the lowest  five day  average  closing  price of the common  stock
during the 20 day trading period immediately prior to such conversion.  The sale
was arranged by SPIF, which received a fee of $500,000 plus warrants to purchase
50,000 shares of common stock, which are exercisable at $11.00 and expire on May
28,  2002.  The  Series B  Preferred  Stock was issued in a  nonpublic  offering
pursuant to transactions exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. During
fiscal 1998, RGC and Shoreline received 112.5 and 12.5 shares, respectively,  of
Series B Preferred Stock as dividends paid in kind.

On August  31,  1998,  the  Company  issued to RGC 7,500  shares of its Series C
Preferred  Stock and  warrants to purchase  93,750  shares of common  stock (the
"Series C Warrants") for an aggregate purchase price of $7,500,000.  $277,000 of
the  purchase  price has been  allocated  to the value of the Series C Warrants.
Prior to May 31, 1999, the conversion  price of the Series C Preferred  Stock is
equal to $9.00 per  share.  Thereafter,  the  conversion  price of the  Series C
Preferred Stock is equal to the lower of $9.00 per share and the lowest five day
average  closing  price of the common  stock  during the 30-day  trading  period
immediately  prior to such  conversion.  The sale was  arranged  by SPIF,  which
received a fee of $375,000  plus  warrants to purchase  26,250  shares of common
stock,  which are exercisable at $7.50 and expire on August 31, 2002. The Series
C Preferred  Stock was issued in a nonpublic  offering  pursuant to transactions
exempt under  Section  4(2) of the  Securities  Act.  During  fiscal  1998,  RGC
received 31 shares of Series C Preferred Stock as dividends paid in kind.

Each series of the Preferred Stock has similar rights and  privileges,  and each
share of the  Preferred  Stock  has a par  value of $0.10  and a face  amount of
$1,000.  The Preferred Stock is convertible  into the number of shares of common
stock  determined  by  dividing  the face  amount of the  Preferred  Stock being
converted by the applicable conversion price. A holder of the Series A Preferred
Stock or the Series B  Preferred  Stock  cannot  convert  its Series A Preferred
Stock or Series B Preferred Stock in the event such  conversion  would result in
its  beneficially  owning more than 4.99% of the Company's  common  stock,  (not
including  shares  underlying  the  Series A  Preferred  Stock  or the  Series A
Warrants for the Series A Preferred Stock conversions, or the Series B Preferred
Stock or the Series B Warrants  for the Series B Preferred  Stock  conversions),
but they may  waive  this  prohibition  by  providing  the  Company  a notice of
election  to  convert at least 61 days prior to such  conversion.  Similarly,  a
holder of the  Series C  Preferred  Stock or  Series D  Preferred  Stock  cannot
convert  its Series C Preferred  Stock or Series D Preferred  Stock in the event
such  conversion  would  result in  beneficially  owning  more than 4.99% of the
Company's common stock (not including  shares  underlying the Series C Preferred
Stock or the Series C Warrants for the Series C Preferred  stock  conversion  or
the shares  underlying the Series D Preferred Stock or the Series D Warrants for
the Series D Preferred stock conversions).  Notwithstanding this limitation, the
holders of the  Preferred  Stock  cannot  convert into an aggregate of more than
19.99% of the  Company's  common  stock  without the  approval of the  Company's
common  shareholders or the American Stock Exchange.  In addition,  the Series B
Preferred  Stock,  Series C Preferred  Stock and Series D  Preferred  Stock each
cannot convert into more than 2,000,000 shares of common stock.

In January  1998,  the  Company  issued  $1,443,750  principal  amount of its 5%
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  due  September  30,  2002 to Mr. R. C. W.
Mauran,  a beneficial  owner of more than 5% of the Company's  common stock,  in
exchange for the assignment to the Company of certain equipment leases and other
consideration,  all  of  which  have  been  assimilated  into  the  business  of
Micrographic Technology Corporation.  The debentures are convertible into common
stock of the  Company,  at $8.25 per  share,  after  December  31,  1998.  These
securities  are exempt under  Section  4(2) of the  Securities  Act of 1933,  as
amended (the "Securities Act").

On July 31, 1997 and August 15,  1997,  the  Company  issued  250,000  shares of
common stock and 1,000  shares of common  stock,  respectively,  to two separate
warrant holders,  upon the exercise of outstanding warrants at an exercise price
of $1.75 per share  ($439,250 in the  aggregate).  These shares were issued in a
nonpublic  offering  pursuant to  transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act.

On December 20, 1996, the Company issued 10,000 shares of common stock to Cleary
Gull Reiland and McDevitt  ("Cleary") in consideration  for services rendered by
Cleary  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $44,000  in  connection  with  certain
acquisitions  made by the  Company.  These  shares  were  issued in a  nonpublic
offering  pursuant to  transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities
Act.

In  September  1995,  the  Company  issued  $2,856,700  of  its  9%  Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures due September 2000 in conjunction  with the acquisition
of Micrographic  Technology  Corporation  ("MTC"). The debentures were issued to
the shareholders of Micrographic Technology Corporation as partial consideration
for the acquisition. These 9% debentures have a conversion price of $6.75. These
securities  are exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities  Act.  During fiscal
1998,  the  Company  issued  123,377  shares of  common  stock  pursuant  to the

<PAGE>

conversion of $832,806 of convertible  debt by seven  separate  holders of these
debentures. During fiscal 1997, the Company issued 35,104 shares of common stock
pursuant to the  conversion  of $236,952 of  convertible  debt by four  separate
holders of these debentures.

Also during  September  1995, in  association  with the  acquisition of MTC, the
Company assumed $1,800,000 of 6% Convertible Subordinated Secured Debentures due
February  2002.  These 6% debentures  are subject to redemption at the option of
the Company at face value,  provided  however,  that the Company  issues  common
share purchase warrants to purchase the same number of shares as would have been
issuable if the debentures were converted. These debentures are convertible into
the Company's common stock at $8.10 per share. These securities are exempt under
Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. During fiscal 1998, the Company issued 7,407
shares of the Company's  common stock  pursuant to the  conversion of $60,000 of
these  convertible  debentures  by a single holder of these  debentures.  During
fiscal 1996,  the Company  issued 125,925 shares of common stock pursuant to the
conversion of $1,020,000 of these convertible debentures by ten separate holders
of these debentures.

In  December  1994,  the  Company  issued   $2,189,500  of  its  9%  Convertible
Subordinated  Notes due December 1998 in a private placement  transacted without
the  use of an  underwriter.  The  proceeds  were  used  for  general  corporate
purposes.  These 9% notes have a conversion price of $5.00. These securities are
exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. During fiscal 1998, the Company
issued  5,000 shares of common stock  pursuant to the  conversion  of $25,000 of
these convertible  notes by a single holder of these notes.  During fiscal 1997,
the Company  issued 10,000 shares of common stock  pursuant to the conversion of
$50,000 of these  convertible  notes by a single  holder of these notes.  During
fiscal 1996,  the Company  issued 422,898 shares of common stock pursuant to the
conversion  of  $2,114,500 of these  convertible  notes by seventeen  individual
holders of these notes.

In  October  1994,  the  Company  issued   $1,250,000  of  its  10%  Convertible
Subordinated  Notes due October 1999 in a private placement  transacted  without
the use of an  underwriter.  The  notes  were  issued  in  association  with the
Company's purchase of Communicate Direct,  Inc. ("CDI").  The proceeds were used
to perfect the CDI acquisition  and for general  corporate  purposes.  These 10%
notes have a  conversion  price of $4.10.  These  securities  are  exempt  under
Section 4(2) of the  Securities  Act.  During  fiscal 1998,  the Company  issued
48,780  shares of common stock  pursuant to the  conversion of $200,000 of these
convertible  notes by a single holder of these notes.  During  fiscal 1997,  the
Company  issued  24,390  shares of common stock  pursuant to the  conversion  of
$100,000 of these  convertible  notes by a single holder of these notes.  During
fiscal 1996,  the Company  issued 231,708 shares of common stock pursuant to the
conversion  of $950,000 of these  convertible  notes by a single holder of these
notes.



<PAGE>


Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth for the periods selected  consolidated  financial
and operating  data for the Company.  The  statement of  operations  and balance
sheet  data  have  been  derived  from  the  Company's   consolidated  financial
statements  audited by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP. The  selected  consolidated
financial data should be read in conjunction with "Management's  Discussions and
Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of Operations" and the consolidated
financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this report.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                         Fiscal years ended September 30,  
                                                        1998        1997     1996 (b)   1995 (c)    1994   
                                                     ----------  ---------  ---------   --------  ---------
                                                            (in thousands, except per share data)
   Consolidated Statements of Operations Data (a):

<S>                                                    <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>       <C>     
Net sales                                              $ 14,060   $ 21,338   $ 19,584    $ 1,088   $    188
Cost of sales                                            10,628     11,935     11,375        783        172
                                                     ----------  ---------  ---------   --------  ---------
Gross Profit                                              3,432      9,403      8,209        305         16
                                                     ----------  ---------  ---------   --------  ---------

Operating expenses:
  Selling, engineering and general
      and administrative                                 14,879      7,767      7,764      1,673      1,180
  Amortization of goodwill 
      and transaction costs                               1,286      1,287        993         29          -
  Loss on impairment of assets                            3,100          -          -          -          -
  Write-off of acquired in-process
      unproven technology                                     -          -          -      5,000          -
  Cost associated with change
      in products and other                                   -      2,137      2,164          -          -
  Acquisition costs and other                                 -         -            -       846          -
                                                     ----------  ---------  ---------   --------  ---------
Total operating expenses                                 19,265     11,191     10,921      7,548      1,180
                                                     ----------  ---------  ---------   --------  ---------

Loss from operations                                    (15,833)    (1,788)    (2,712)    (7,243)    (1,164)

Interest expense                                         (1,416)    (1,145)    (1,220)      (456)      (601)
Gain on sale of 
      available-for-sale securities                           -          -      5,689          -          -
Other income                                                320          49         19         5          2
                                                     ----------  ---------  ---------   --------  ---------

Income (loss) from continuing operations
  before income taxes                                   (16,929)    (2,884)     1,776     (7,694)    (1,763)

Provision for income taxes                                    -          -          -          -          -
                                                     ----------  ---------  ---------   --------  ---------
Income (loss) before discontinued operations
  and extraordinary item                                (16,929)    (2,884)     1,776     (7,694)    (1,763)

Discontinued operations:
  Gain (loss) from operations                               (73)       739     (1,812)    (1,317)       335
  Estimated loss on disposal                                  -          -          -       (644)         -
Extraordinary item - loss on sale of business                 -       (486)    (6,061)         -          -
                                                     ----------  ---------  ---------   --------  ---------
Net loss                                             $ ( 17,002) $  (2,631)  $ (6,097)  $ (9,656)  $ (1,428)
                                                     ==========  =========   ========   ========   ========

Preferred dividends                                        (343)         -          -          -          -
                                                     ----------  ---------  ---------   --------  ---------

Net loss applicable to common shares                  $ (17,345) $  (2,631)  $ (6,097)  $ (9,656)  $ (1,428)
                                                     ==========  =========   ========   ========   ========

Basic and diluted loss per common share              $    (2.35) $   (0.40)  $  (1.05) $   (2.22) $   (0.38)
                                                     ==========  =========   ========   ========   ========

Balance Sheet Data (a):

Working capital                                       $   7,439  $     298   $  2,430   $  3,044   $   (918)
Total assets                                             34,555     20,321     18,991     29,192      4,281
Long-term debt, net of current portion                   10,236     11,727     10,247     11,795          -
Redeemable convertible preferred stock                   18,187          -          -          -          -
Shareholders' equity (deficit)                           (6,171)     2,028      3,793     11,685      2,436
- ----------------------------------
<FN>

(a)  Restated  to  reflect  the   telecommunications   segment  as  discontinued
     operations.
(b)  Includes ISP Channel (formerly MediaCity World, Inc.) since its acquisition
     on June 21, 1996.
(c)  Includes  Micrographic  Technology  Corporation  since its  acquisition  on
     September 15, 1995
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
         of Operations

The following discussion of the financial condition and results of operations of
the Company should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety
by reference to, the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements of the Company and the
related Notes thereto  appearing  elsewhere in Form 10-K.  The Company's  fiscal
year ends on  September  30th of each year.  "Fiscal  1998" refers to the twelve
months ended  September  30, 1998 with  comparable  references  for other twelve
month periods ending  September 30th. This discussion  contains  forward-looking
statements that involve risks and  uncertainties.  The Company's  actual results
could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements
as a result of certain factors including, but not limited to, those discussed in
"Risk  Factors,"  "Business"  and  elsewhere  in this  Form  10-K.  The  Company
disclaims any obligation to update information  contained in any forward-looking
statement.


Overview

During  fiscal 1998,  the Company  resolved to become,  through its wholly owned
subsidiary,  ISP Channel,  Inc.  (formerly known as MediaCity World, Inc.) ("ISP
Channel"),  the dominant cable-based provider of high-speed Internet access, and
other Internet  related  services to homes and businesses in the franchise areas
of those cable systems unaffiliated with the six largest US cable operators.  As
part of this new focus, on November 22, 1998 the Company announced its agreement
to acquire  Intelligent  Communications  Inc.  ("Intellicom"),  the former Xerox
Skyway  Network.  The Company  believes that this  acquisition  will give it the
ability,  using satellite,  to bypass telephone  companies and thus dramatically
reduce the cost of bringing  high-speed  Internet  service to customers of small
and  mid-sized  cable  systems.  Also in line with this  strategy of becoming an
Internet  access  provider,  the  Company  determined  to  divest  its two other
businesses:   Micrographic   Technology  Corporation  ("MTC"),  a  wholly  owned
subsidiary offering document management  solutions,  and Kansas  Communications,
Inc.  ("KCI"),  a wholly  owned  subsidiary  that sells and  services  telephone
systems,  third party  computer  hardware and  application  oriented  peripheral
products such as voice mail and video conferencing  systems. The Company entered
into  letters  of  intent  for the sale of MTC and KCI on  November  5, 1998 and
November  9,  1998,   respectively.   Since  July  27,  1998,  the  Company  has
reclassified  and reported KCI as a  discontinued  operation.  However,  at this
time,  pending  shareholder  approval  of the  sale of both  MTC and KCI  (which
together,  comprise  substantially  all of the  Company's  assets),  the Company
continues to classify and report MTC as a continuing business. It is the current
intent of the  Company to  conclude  the sale of both KCI and MTC during  fiscal
1999.

ISP Channel and Intellicom

The Company began providing  Internet services  following its acquisition of ISP
Channel  in June  1996.  While  the  Company  seeks to  maintain  and build the
traditional  dial-up  Internet access business  acquired at, and built up since,
that time, the Company's primary objective is to become the dominant provider of
high-speed  Internet access via the existing cable television  infrastructure to
homes and businesses in the franchise areas of those cable systems  unaffiliated
with the six largest US cable operators.  The Company  commenced  marketing this
high-speed service,  using cable modems, to select cable operators and potential
subscribers in March 1998.  However,  the Company  believes that, as a result of
its limited  financial  resources,  the Company  has not fully  implemented  its
marketing  strategies,  and this business has, to date,  generated  only nominal
revenues.

The Company has signed a  definitive  agreement  to acquire  Intellicom  and the
acquisition is currently pending  regulatory  approvals.  The Company expects to
complete the acquisition  during the second quarter of fiscal 1999.  Through use
of its proprietary  satellite  system,  Intellicom  currently  provides  two-way
Internet  connectivity  to local Internet  service  providers  ("ISPs"),  school
systems  and   businesses,   primarily   located  in  remote  and  rural  areas.
Intellicom's VSAT (very small aperture  terminals)  network allows  connectivity
throughout  the 48 lower states as well as in southern  Canada and south Alaska.
Intellicom  offers a wide range of Internet  services  based on its  proprietary
T1Plus product that presently offers up to 2 Mbps data transfer rates. It is the
Company's  intention that, while Intellicom will continue to market its services
to its traditional  customer sectors,  it will also provide ISP Channel with the
in-house  ability to bypass many of the high cost  terrestrial  telephone  links
that ISP Channel has  historically  used to connect the cable  head-ends  of its
affiliated cable operators to the network operating center of ISP Channel.

ISP Channel  Affiliates.  As of December 31, 1998, the Company had contracts for
its ISP Channel service with 28 cable  operators,  including  Galaxy,  Palo Alto
Cable  Co-op  and Coral  Springs  Cable,  representing  119  cable  systems  and
approximately 1.4 million homes passed. Nineteen of these systems,  representing
approximately  216,000 homes passed,  have been equipped and have begun offering
the Company's services, in most cases during the past three months. In addition,

<PAGE>

the  Company  has  non-binding  letters  of  intent  with ten  cable  operators,
including 39 systems,  representing  approximately  359,000 homes passed.  As of
December 31, 1998, the Company had approximately  1,250 residential and business
subscribers to its ISP Channel service. See "Risk  Factors--Dependence  on Local
Cable Operators and their Cable  Infrastructure"  and "--Dependence on Exclusive
Access to Cable Subscribers Need for Aggressive Implementation and Deployment."

In order to expand its cable-based  Internet subscriber base significantly,  the
Company  expects  to  aggressively  pursue  affiliation  agreements  with  cable
operators which will provide it with the exclusive  right to market  cable-based
Internet  services  to  existing  cable  television  subscribers  in such  cable
operators' systems. The Company anticipates that this policy of rapid deployment
will result in substantial capital  expenditures,  operating losses and negative
cash flow in the near term.  While the Company  believes  that it currently  has
sufficient cash and financing sources  available to fund its operations  through
1999,  there can be no  assurance,  however,  that the  Company  will be able to
access  additional  capital to finance  its  strategy  in the longer  term or to
implement  its  strategy or achieve  positive  cash flow or  profitability  in a
timely fashion, or at all.

ISP Channel Revenue  Sources.  In providing its Internet  services,  the Company
receives  revenue from the provision of (i) cable  modem-based  Internet  access
services and (ii) traditional dial-up Internet access services.  Currently,  the
Company or, in certain cases, its local cable affiliate,  typically  charges new
cable modem-based  Internet access subscribers a one-time connection fee of $99,
which includes modem installation but excludes any required  modification of the
existing cable television  connection,  which is usually  performed by the local
cable affiliate. Thereafter, each subscriber pays a monthly access fee, which is
currently as low as $39 per month.  It is the  Company's  expectation  that such
rates will decrease over time. The Company  anticipates  that it will purchase a
majority  of the cable  modems used by  subscribers,  who will then be charged a
nominal  lease  fee.  The  Company  does not charge new  dial-up  subscribers  a
connection fee, but does charge a monthly access fee of approximately $20.

In addition to connection  fees and monthly access fees, the Company  intends to
pursue additional revenue  opportunities from Internet  advertising,  e-commerce
and Internet-based  telephony.  The Company also intends to pursue long distance
telephone  services and  telephony  debit and credit  cards.  Intellicom is also
anticipated to generate continuing revenue from the sale of VSAT service.

In the future, as digital set-top boxes become available and are introduced into
the Company's  affiliated  cable  systems,  the Company  expects to charge those
subscribers  monthly access fees  comparable to those now charged to traditional
dial-up  subscribers.  The Company  also  expects to charge  customers a set-top
connection fee to help defray installation expenses.

For cable-based  Internet services,  the Company typically shares 25% of monthly
access  revenues with cable  affiliates  for the first 200  subscribers  in each
system and 50% thereafter. For other services, such as Internet-based telephony,
e-commerce and advertising,  the Company expects to share between 25% and 50% of
these revenues with the cable affiliates.  The Company expects that all revenues
from cable modem lease  income will be  retained by the  Company.  Depending  on
competitive  market  conditions,  these pricing and revenue  sharing  parameters
could change over time.

Cost of Services.  Costs to the Company include  installation costs, network and
cable operation costs and personnel and other costs.  Commissions  paid to cable
affiliates vary by type of connectivity and size of contract.

Installation  costs are  expected  to vary by type of  connectivity  and type of
customer. The Company charges new subscribers a one time fee to defray the costs
of  installation,  which  includes  labor  and  overhead.  While  currently  the
installation  fee does not cover the entire cost  incurred by the  Company,  the
Company expects over time that  installation  costs will decline as cable modems
become more standardized and are eventually bundled as standard equipment in new
personal computers.

Other  network  costs  include  the  cost of  connection  to the  public  switch
telephone  network.  Such  connections  are required,  among other  reasons,  to
service the Company's  dial-up customers as well as to provide those cable modem
customers located on a one-way cable system,  the return path (or upstream link)
to the  Company's  equipment  located  at the cable  operator's  system  hub (or
headend).  In  addition,  the  Company  incurs  costs  associated  with  leasing
telecommunications  capacity  such as fiber where such  capacity is used,  among
other things,  to link the Company's  equipment at the cable system headend back
to the Company's  network  operating  center in Mountain View,  California.  The
Company anticipates that the utilization of Intellicom's network as a substitute
for third party terrestrial  links will provide  significant cost savings to the

<PAGE>

Company as it grows.  There are two major cost  benefits to the Company in using
Intellicom's  VSAT capacity to supplement or replace its current  landline-based
communications  infrastructure.  First,  for  downstream  Internet  traffic,  it
enables the Company to  simultaneously  broadcast data from one single source to
its  entire  network  of  headend-based  receivers  which  produces  significant
efficiency  improvements over comparable landline systems.  Second, for upstream
traffic,  it permits the Company to allocate the necessary  capacity required by
each headend in smaller  increments (and consequently  lower cost) than would be
available using terrestrial links, such as T1 lines.

Sales, Marketing and Operating Expenses. Sales, marketing and operating expenses
include the costs of the Company's cable affiliate  program,  maintenance of its
infrastructure,  customer care, content and new business development in addition
to sales and marketing expenses.

Capital Expenditures.  In order to pursue its business plan, the Company expects
to incur  significant  capital  expenditures to provide its turnkey solution for
cable operators,  principally  relating to the installation of headend equipment
and the purchase of customer premise equipment such as cable modems. The cost of
headend equipment (including  installation) has averaged $45,000 per headend for
the 19 systems through which the Company currently provides service.  The retail
costs of cable  modems,  currently  approximately  $179 to $349,  is expected to
decline over time as economies of scale in production and new market entrants in
the cable modem market push down prices.  However,  the Company recognizes that,
in line with experience in other subscription  service industries,  it will need
to subsidize for the customer both the cost of installation  and the cable modem
equipment. Such expenditures,  however, are expected to be offset in part by the
savings  resulting  from  decreased  costs of  installation  and prices for such
equipment  as  equipment  is  standardized   and  production   volumes  increase
respectively.

MTC. Through MTC, the Company develops and manufactures sophisticated, automated
electronic  document  management and film-based  imaging solutions for customers
with large-scale,  complex,  document-intensive requirements. MTC's hardware and
software products are based on an industry standard client-server  architecture,
providing  flexibility to connect to a wide variety of  information  systems and
produce output to various storage media,  including optical disk,  magnetic disk
and tape,  CD-ROM,  and microfilm and  microfiche,  spanning the entire document
lifecycle.  MTC's electronic and film-based  imaging hardware systems  typically
range in price between $200,000 and $1,000,000,  and may represent a significant
capital commitment by MTC's customers, leading to a lengthy sales cycle of up to
24 months. Accordingly, MTC's operating results may fluctuate significantly from
period to period.  The Company has signed a letter of intent to sell MTC. Either
through the currently contemplated transaction or otherwise, the Company expects
to dispose of this business during fiscal 1999


<PAGE>



Historical Results of Operation

The Company  has changed  significantly  over the last  several  years as it has
entered certain  businesses and exited or prepared to exit others. In July 1998,
the Company's Board of Directors adopted a plan to discontinue operations of the
telecommunications   business.   Accordingly,   the  operating  results  of  the
telecommunications  business have been segregated from continuing operations and
reported as a separate line item on the  consolidated  statements of operations.
The assets and liabilities of such operations have been reflected as a net asset
in the consolidated balance sheets.

The  Company is in the process of  negotiating  the sale of both the MTC and KCI
operations and expects that these sales will be completed  within a twelve month
period.  Management does not anticipate a loss on these sales and intends to use
sale proceeds to reduce outstanding  indebtedness and provide additional working
capital to ISP Channel.  Until such time as the Company's  shareholders  approve
the disposition of these businesses,  the Company will treat the MTC business as
part of its continuing operations.

The  discussion  of  the  Company's  consolidated  results  of  operation  below
therefore treats the telecommunication  business as a discontinued operation. In
addition,  the  Company  entered  the  Internet  business  in June 1996 with the
purchase of the Internet services  business and only began offering  cable-based
Internet   services  in  the  fourth   quarter  of  fiscal  1997.   Accordingly,
year-to-year comparisons may not be meaningful.

                                            1998           1997          1996
                                         ---------      ---------     ---------
                                                     (in thousands)
          Sales
             MTC                          $ 13,042        $20,330       $19,417
             ISP Channel                     1,018          1,008           167

          Cost of Sales
             MTC                             9,410         11,050        11,375
             ISP Channel                     1,218            885             -

          Gross Profit
             MTC                             3,632          9,280         8,042
             ISP Channel                      (200)           123           167

          Operating Expenses
             MTC                             9,272          8,714         8,162
             ISP Channel                     8,016          1,273           478

          Income (loss) from 
             continuing operations
             MTC                            (5,640)           566          (120)
             ISP Channel                    (8,216)        (1,150)         (311)
             Corporate Overhead             (1,977)        (1,204)       (2,281)
                                         ---------      ---------     ---------
               Consolidated               $(15,833)      $ (1,788)     $ (2,712)
                                         ---------      ---------     ---------

Fiscal 1998 compared to Fiscal 1997

Consolidated sales decreased $7.3 million, or 34.0%, to $14.1 million for fiscal
1998, as compared to $21.4 million for fiscal 1997. The decrease in consolidated
sales was the result of a decrease in the sales  associated  with the operations
of MTC.  Sales in this  business  decreased  $7.3  million,  or 35.8%,  to $13.0
million for fiscal 1998,  as compared to sales of $20.3 million for fiscal 1997.
The decrease in MTC's sales was primarily  the result of a significant  decrease
in the domestic  sales of the  business's  core product  line:  computer  output
microfiche  ("COM")  equipment.  Domestic orders for MTC's  microfiche  systems,
which  typically  range in price from $200,000 to $1 million,  were delayed by a
purchasing  slowdown  brought  about  by  a  trend  of  corporate  consolidation
occurring within the business's major markets,  including such industries as the
document  management  service  bureau  industry  and the banking  and  insurance
industries.  Sales were  further  affected by the fact that MTC entered the year
with an order backlog of $1.4  million,  as compared to an order backlog of $3.4
million in the prior period.  MTC believes that this trend is reversing and that
the demand for its  products  will return at least to their  historical  levels.
Sales in the Company's Internet service business increased $10,000,  or 1.0%, to
$1.0  million for fiscal  1998,  as compared to fiscal  1997.  Net sales for the
business's ISP Channel service  increased  $289,000 to $309,000 for fiscal 1998,
as  compared  to  $20,000  for fiscal  year 1997.  ISP  Channel  introduced  its
cable-based  services  to the  market in the  fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  1997.
Traditional dial-up and dedicated Internet service sales increased $42,000, or

<PAGE>

7.0%, to $644,000 for fiscal 1998, as compared to $602,000 for fiscal 1997. This
business also experienced a decrease in miscellaneous and one-time service sales
of $321,000,  or 83.2% to $65,000 for fiscal  1998,  as compared to $386,000 for
fiscal 1997. This decrease in  miscellaneous  and one-time  service sales is the
result  of  the  Company's  decision  to  re-focus  its  sales  efforts  on  its
cable-based ISP Channel services.

Consolidated gross profit decreased $6.0 million,  or 63.5%, to $3.4 million for
fiscal 1998,  as compared to $9.4 million for fiscal 1997,  with profit  margins
decreasing to 24.4% from 44.1% for the  comparable  period in 1997. The decrease
in gross profit is primarily  the result of a decrease in gross  profits of $5.6
million  associated  with the  operations of MTC.  Gross profit  margins in this
business decreased to 27.9% in fiscal 1998, from 45.6% for the comparable period
in 1997.  This  decrease in profit  margin is a direct result of the decrease in
MTC's COM  equipment  sales,  which have  historically  contributed  the highest
product profit margins for this business. Gross profit decreased $323,000 in the
Internet  service  business for fiscal 1998. ISP Channel  experienced a negative
gross  profit  of  $200,000  in  fiscal  1998,  primarily  as the  result of the
build-out of the segment's  Internet  operations used to support its cable-based
service offering.  In addition,  on a system by system deployment basis, the ISP
Channel  cable-based  service  offering  initially  results in a negative  gross
profit, until such time as subscriber sales exceed the up-front, recurring fixed
telephony and Internet connection fees.

Operating expenses (selling, engineering,  general and administrative) increased
$7.1  million,  or 91.6%,  to $14.9 million for fiscal 1998, as compared to $7.8
million for fiscal 1997.  Operating  expenses  associated with the operations of
MTC decreased  approximately $400,000, or 7.1%, to $5.3 million for fiscal 1998,
as compared to $5.7 million for fiscal 1997.  Operating expenses associated with
ISP Channel and  corporate  overhead  increased a combined  $7.5  million,  with
expenses associated with ISP Channel increasing $6.7 million to $7.6 million for
fiscal 1998, as compared to $860,000 for fiscal 1997. This increase in operating
expense is primarily the result of the increase in ISP Channel's administrative,
sales and  marketing  efforts  supporting  the ISP Channel  cable-based  service
offering.  Similarly,  the  increase in the  corporate  operating  expenses  are
directly related to the management changes and financing  activities  associated
with the  Company's  strategic  refocusing  towards the ISP Channel  cable-based
service offering.

Amortization expense associated with goodwill remained constant in fiscal 1998.

In fiscal 1998, the Company recorded an impairment loss on the long-lived assets
of the document management business.  Estimates based upon certain trends in the
document  management  business indicated that the undiscounted future cash flows
from this  business  would be less  than the  carrying  value of the  long-lived
assets related to this business.  Accordingly,  the Company  recognized an asset
impairment  loss of $3.1  million,  all of which was reduced  from the  carrying
value of goodwill.

For fiscal 1998, the Company had a net loss from continuing  operations of $15.8
million,  as compared to a net loss from  continuing  operations of $1.8 million
for fiscal 1997.

Interest expense increased  $271,000,  or 23.7%, to $1.4 million for fiscal 1998
from $1.1 million for fiscal 1997,  primarily as a result of fluctuations in the
Company's outstanding  indebtedness with respect to its revolving line of credit
and the issuance of its 5% convertible subordinated debentures.


The Company made no  provisions  for income taxes for fiscal 1998 and 1997, as a
result of the Company's net operating loss carry-forward.

The Company  recognized a loss from operations with respect to its  discontinued
telecommunications  business of $73,000 for fiscal  1998,  as compared to a gain
from operations of $739,000 for the same period in 1997.

The Company  paid  aggregate  dividends  of $343,000  during  fiscal 1998 on its
outstanding 5% Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock.

For fiscal 1998, the Company had a net loss applicable to common shareholders of
$17.3 million, as compared to a net loss of $2.6 million for fiscal 1997.


<PAGE>



Fiscal 1997 compared to Fiscal 1996

Consolidated sales increased $1.7 million,  or 8.9%, to $21.3 million for fiscal
1997,  as  compared  to $19.6  million for fiscal  1996.  MTC's sales  increased
$913,000, or 4.7%, to $20.3 million for fiscal 1997 as compared to $19.4 million
for  fiscal  1996.  This  increase  in MTC's  sales is  primarily  the result of
increased monthly rental revenues  associated with its continued  implementation
of alternative customer leasing arrangements for its core COM products. Sales in
the Internet  services  business  increased  $841,000 to $1.0 million for fiscal
1997 from $167,000 for fiscal 1996. Sales in the Internet  services business for
fiscal 1996 consist only of fourth quarter  sales,  as the business was acquired
in June 1996.

Consolidated gross profit increased $1.2 million,  or 14.6%, to $9.4 million for
fiscal 1997,  as compared to $8.2 million for fiscal 1996,  with profit  margins
increasing  to 44.1%  from  41.9%  for the same  period  in 1996.  Gross  profit
increased  $1.3 million,  or 15.4%,  in MTC to $9.3 million for fiscal 1997 from
$8.0 million for fiscal 1996, with gross profit margins increasing to 45.7% from
41.4% for the same  period in 1996.  The  increase  in gross  profit  margin was
primarily the result of increased productivity efficiencies in the manufacturing
operation, which resulted from a strong equipment backlog and a steady, customer
order driven,  manufacturing  schedule.  The Internet services business recorded
gross profits of $123,000 for fiscal 1997,  however year to year comparisons are
not meaningful,  given the fact that the business  operated for only one quarter
in fiscal  1996 and  allocated  no expense to cost of goods sold during this one
quarter period.

Operating expenses (selling, engineering,  general and administrative) decreased
$24,000 to $9.9  million for fiscal 1997 as compared to $9.9  million for fiscal
1996.  General and  administrative  expenses  associated  with MTC and corporate
overhead  decreased a combined  $810,000,  or 20.2%,  to $3.2 million for fiscal
1997,  as compared to $4.0  million in the same period in 1996.  The decrease in
these  combined  general  and  administrative  expenses is the result of certain
overhead cost cutting measures  implemented to achieve back office  efficiencies
throughout the Company.  For MTC,  engineering  expenses increased $324,000,  or
19.1%,  to $2.0 million for fiscal 1997,  as compared to $1.7 million for fiscal
1996, as a result of the business's  continued  effort to expand and improve the
products  offered  to its  customers.  Included  in the  consolidated  operating
expenses  are two  separate,  one-time  charges  associated  with changes in the
Company's product lines, in the amounts of $2.1 million for fiscal 1997 and $2.2
million for fiscal 1996.  Operating  expenses in the Internet  services business
increased $483,000 to $858,000 for fiscal 1997, however year to year comparisons
are not  meaningful  given  the fact  that the  business  operated  for only one
quarter in fiscal 1996.

Amortization  expense increased  $294,000,  or 29.6%, to $1.3 million for fiscal
1997 from  $993,000 for fiscal 1996.  This increase in  amortization  expense is
primarily the result of the additional  amortization expense associated with the
acquisition of the Internet services business in June 1996.

The Company had a net loss from continuing operations of $1.8 million for fiscal
1997, as compared to a net loss from  continuing  operations of $2.7 million for
fiscal 1996.

Consolidated  interest expense decreased  $75,000,  or 6.1%, to $1.1 million for
fiscal 1997 as compared to $1.2 million for fiscal  1996,  primarily as a result
of the conversion of $4.5 million of convertible  subordinated  notes since June
1996.

The  Company  recognized  a gain on the sale of  securities  of $5.7  million in
fiscal  1996.  This  gain  was the  result  of the sale of all  shares  of IMNET
Systems, Inc. ("IMNET") held by the Company.

The Company made no provisions  for income taxes for fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996
as a result of the Company's net operating loss carry-forward.

The Company  recognized a gain from operations with respect to its  discontinued
telecommunications  business of $739,000 for fiscal 1997,  as compared to a loss
of $1.8  million for the same period in 1996.  The loss  incurred in fiscal 1996
includes a loss from operations of $2.5 million  associated with the disposal of
the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, Communicate Direct, Inc.

The Company  recognized  a loss from  extraordinary  item of $486,000 for fiscal
1997, as compared to a loss from extraordinary item of $6.1 million for the same
period in 1996.  The losses are  associated  with the disposal of the  Company's
wholly owned subsidiary, Communicate Direct, Inc.

For fiscal 1997, the Company had a net loss applicable to common shareholders of
$2.6 million, as compared to a net loss of $6.1 million for fiscal 1996.

<PAGE>


Liquidity and Capital Resources

Over the past year,  the Company's  growth has been funded through a combination
of private equity, bank debt and lease financings.  As of December 31, 1998, the
Company had  approximately  $3.5 million of unrestricted  cash. In addition,  on
January  12,  1999,   the  Company   executed  an  agreement  with  a  group  of
institutional  investors  whereby the Company  issued $12 million in convertible
subordinated  loan notes.  These notes bear an interest  rate of 9% per year and
mature in 2001.  In  connection  with these notes,  the Company  issued to these
investors  an  aggregate  of 300,000  warrants.  These  warrants,  which have an
exercise price of $17 per warrant, expire in 2003. The Company has also received
a commitment to provide,  subject to final  documentation,  a secured $3 million
loan from a financial lender and is in negotiations with a vendor with regard to
a $6 million  equipment  lease line.  The Company  believes that, as a result of
this, it currently has  sufficient  cash and financing  commitments  to meet its
funding  requirements over the next year.  However,  the Company has experienced
and continues to experience  negative  operating  margins and negative cash flow
from operations,  as well as an ongoing  requirement for substantial  additional
capital  investment.  The Company expects that it will need to raise substantial
additional  capital to accomplish its business plan over the next several years.
The Company's  future cash  requirements  for its business plan  expansion  will
depend on a number  of  factors  including  (i) the  number  of cable  affiliate
contracts, (ii) cable modem and associated costs of equipment, (iii) the rate at
which subscribers  purchase the Company's Internet service offering and (iv) the
level of marketing  required to acquire and retain  subscribers  and to attain a
competitive  position in the marketplace.  In addition,  the Company may wish to
selectively pursue possible acquisitions of businesses, technologies, content or
products  complementary to those of the Company in the future in order to expand
its Internet presence and achieve operating efficiencies. The Company expects to
seek to obtain  additional  funding  through the sale of public or private  debt
and/or equity securities or through a bank credit facility.  The Company expects
it may raise as much as $150  million in debt  and/or  equity  financing  during
fiscal 1999.  If additional  funds are raised  through the issuance of equity or
convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of the stockholders of the
Company will be reduced,  stockholders  may experience  additional  dilution and
such  securities may have rights,  preferences or privileges  senior to those of
the Company's common stock.  There can be no assurance as to the availability or
terms upon which such financing might be available.

For  fiscal  1998,  cash  flows  used  in  operating  activities  of  continuing
operations  were $4.7 million,  as compared to $1.4 million for fiscal 1997. The
Company used $5.6  million in  investing  activities  of  continuing  operations
during fiscal 1998, as compared to $1.1 million used by investing  activities of
continuing operations in fiscal 1997. Cash flow provided by financing activities
of  continuing  operations  increased  $20.4 million to $23.4 million for fiscal
1998, as compared  $3.0 million for fiscal 1997.  This increase in cash flow was
primarily the result of the issuance of the Company's 5% Redeemable  Convertible
Preferred Stock.

On December  31,  1997,  the Company sold 5,000 shares of its Series A Preferred
Stock and  warrants to purchase  150,000  shares of common stock for $5 million.
The $4.6  million in net proceeds  from this sale were applied to the  Company's
Revolving  Credit  Facility.  On May 28, 1998, the Company sold 10,000 shares of
its Series B Preferred  Stock and warrants to purchase  200,000 shares of common
stock for $10 million and on August 31,  1998,  the Company sold 7,500 shares of
its Series C Preferred  Stock and warrants to purchase  93,750  shares of common
stock for $7.5  million.  The proceeds of these last two sales were added to the
working  capital of the  Company.  The Company has  extended the maturity of its
Revolving  Credit  Facility,  which has a  maximum  borrowing  capacity  of $9.5
million, through January 15, 2000.

On November 5, 1998, the Company entered into a letter of intent to sell MTC for
$5.125  million and on November 9, 1998,  the Company  entered  into a letter of
intent to sell KCI for $6.6  million.  In both cases,  deposits of $100,000 were
paid to the  Company on  execution  of the letters of intent and, in the case of
the sale of MTC, such deposit is non-refundable.  Subject to the approval of the
Company's  shareholders,  the Company anticipates that both sales will be closed
in the second  quarter  of fiscal  1999 but there can be no  assurance  that the
transactions will close in this time frame, or at all.

The purchase price for MTC is  anticipated  to be $5.125 million  (including the
$100,000 non-refundable  deposit). The balance of $5.025 million will be paid at
closing in readily available funds.

The  purchase  price for KCI is  anticipated  to be $6  million  (including  the
$100,000  deposit)  and the  issuance to the Company of 60,000  shares of common

<PAGE>

stock of the purchaser, Convergent Communications,  Inc. At closing, the Company
expects to receive $3.4 million in readily  available  funds and two 12-month 8%
notes for an aggregate amount of $2.5 million.

The  proceeds  from the  sale of MTC and KCI  will be used in part to repay  the
Company's bank credit facility with West Suburban Bank. As of December 31, 1998,
there was $4.8  million  outstanding  under this  facility.  The  balance of the
proceeds will be used to pay for transaction costs associated with the sales and
to increase the Company's cash position. There can be no assurance however, that
both or either of the transactions will close on the terms described, or at all.

In aggregate,  the sale of both MTC and KCI  represents a substantial  change in
the business of the Company and, as such, requires shareholder  approval.  While
KCI has been treated as a discontinued  operation since July 27, 1998, and while
management  of the Company  intends to dispose of MTC, the Company has continued
to treat MTC as a continuing  business pending such shareholder  approval of its
sale.  Set out below,  however,  are unaudited  selected  financial data for the
Company  which  reflect  the  effect on the  Company  had MTC been  treated as a
discontinued operation.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      Fiscal years ended September 30,
                                                       --------  ---------    -------    -------    -------
                                                           1998       1997       1996       1995       1994

                                                              (in thousands, except per share data)
Statement of Operations Data:

<S>                                                    <C>       <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>     
Net sales                                              $  1,018  $   1,008   $    167    $     -   $    188
Cost of sales                                             1,218        885          -          -        172

                                                       --------  ---------    -------    -------    -------
Gross Profit                                               (200)       123        167          -         16
                                                       --------  ---------    -------    -------    -------
Operating expenses:
  Selling, engineering and general
      and administrative                                  9,580      2,062      2,130        677      1,180
  Amortization of goodwill
      and transaction costs                                 415        415        308          -          -
  Cost associated with change
      in products and other                                   -          -        321          -          -
  Acquisition costs and other                                 -          -          -        543          -
                                                       --------  ---------    -------    -------    -------
Total operating expenses                                  9,995      2,477      2,759      1,220      1,180
                                                       --------  ---------    -------    -------    -------


Loss from operations                                    (10,195)    (2,354)    (2,592)    (1,220)    (1,164)

Interest expense                                         (1,022)    (1,030)    (1,124)      (448)      (601)
Gain on sale of 
      available-for-sale securities                           -          -      5,689          -          -
Other income                                                (60)       (72)        30          3          2
                                                       --------  ---------    -------    -------    -------


Income (loss) from continuing operations
  before income taxes                                   (11,277)    (3,456)     2,003     (1,665)    (1,763)

Provision for income taxes                                    -          -          -          -          -
                                                       --------  ---------    -------    -------    -------


Income (loss) from continuing operations               $(11,277) $  (3,456)   $ 2,003    $(1,665)   $(1,763)
                                                       ========  =========    =======    =======    =======

Balance Sheet Data:

Working capital                                       $   5,361   $ (1,205) $  (1,129)$      731   $   (918)
Total assets                                             29,627     12,611     15,299     25,091      4,281
Long-term debt, net of current portion                    9,220      8,877      9,467      9,995          -
Redeemable convertible preferred stock                   18,187          -          -          -          -
Shareholders' equity (deficit)                           (6,171)     2,028      3,793     11,685      2,436
</TABLE>

On November 22, 1998, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire
all  of  the   outstanding   capital   stock   of   Intelligent   Communications
("Intellicom").   The  transaction   will  close  upon  Federal   Communications
Commission  approval of the  transfer of  Intellicom's  licenses to the Company.
Such  approval is expected to occur in the second  quarter of fiscal  1999.  The
agreed  purchase  price  comprises (i) a cash  component of $500,000  payable at
closing,  (ii) a promissory  note in the amount of $1 million due one year after
closing (and payable in cash or in the  Company's  common stock at the option of
the sellers),  (iii) a promissory note in the amount of $2 million due two years
after  closing  (and  payable in cash or in the  Company's  common  stock at the
option of the  Company),  (iv) the issuance of 500,000  shares of the  Company's
common stock (adjustable upwards after one year in certain  circumstances),  and
(v) a demonstration  bonus of $1 million payable on the first anniversary of the
closing,  if  certain  milestones  are met,  in cash or shares of the  Company's
common stock at the option of the Company.


<PAGE>


Year 2000 Issues

Many  computer  programs  have been written using two digits rather than four to
define the  applicable  year.  This  poses a problem  at the end of the  century
because such computer  programs would not properly  recognize a year that begins
with "20" instead of "19".  This, in turn, could result in major system failures
or  miscalculations,  and is  generally  referred to as the "Year 2000 Issue" or
"Y2K  Issue".  We have  formulated  a Y2K Plan to address our Y2K issues and has
created a Y2K Task Force  headed by the  Director  of I/S and Data  Services  to
implement the plan. Our Y2K Plan has six phases:

1)   Organizational  Awareness -  educate  our  employees,   senior  management,
     and the board of directors  about the Y2K issue.
2)   Inventory  - complete  inventory  of  internal  business  systems and their
     relative  priority to continuing  business  operations.  In addition,  this
     phase  includes a complete  inventory of critical  vendors,  suppliers  and
     services providers and their Y2K compliance status.
3)   Assessment - assessment of internal  business systems and critical vendors,
     suppliers and service providers and their Y2K compliance status.
4)   Planning - preparing  the  individual  project  plans and project teams and
     other  required  internal and external  resources to implement the required
     solutions for Y2K compliance.
5)  Execution -  implementation  of the  solutions  and fixes.
6)  Validation - testing the solutions for Y2K compliance.

Our Y2K Plan will apply to two areas:

o         internal business systems
o         compliance by external customers and providers

Internal Business Systems

Our internal  business systems and workstation  business  applications will be a
primary  area  of  focus.  We are in  the  unique  position  of  completing  the
implementation  of new  enterprise-wide  business  solutions to replace existing
manual processes and/or "home grown"  applications  during 1999. These solutions
are  represented  by their  vendors as being fully Y2K compliant We have few, if
any, "legacy" applications that will need to be evaluated for Y2K compliance.

We plan to have completed the Inventory and Assessment  Phases of  substantially
all critical  internal  business  systems by January 31, 1999, with the Planning
Phase to be completed by March 31, 1999.  The  Execution and  Validation  Phases
will be  completed  by August 31,  1999.  We expect to be Y2K  compliant  on all
critical systems, which rely on the calendar year before December 31, 1999.

Some  non-critical  systems  may not be  addressed  until  after  January  2000.
However,  we believe such systems will not cause significant  disruptions in our
operations.

Compliance by External Customers and Providers

We are in the process of the  inventory  and  assessment  phases of our critical
suppliers,  service  providers and  contractors to determine the extent to which
our interface  systems are susceptible to those third parties' failure to remedy
their own Y2K issues. We expect that assessment will be complete by May 1999. To
the extent that  responses to Y2K  readiness  are  unsatisfactory,  we intend to
change   suppliers,   service  providers  or  contractors  to  those  that  have
demonstrated Y2K readiness; but can not be assured that we will be successful in
finding such alternative suppliers, service providers and contractors. We do not
currently have any formal information concerning the status of our customers but
have  received  indications  that  most  of our  customers  are  working  on Y2K
compliance.

Risks Associated with Y2K

We believe  the major risk  associated  with the Y2K Issue is the ability of our
key business partners and vendors to resolve their own Y2K Issues. We will spend
a great  deal of time  over  the  next  several  months,  working  closely  with
suppliers and vendors, to assure their compliance.

Should a  situation  occur  where a key  partner  or vendor is unable to resolve
their Y2K issue,  we will be in a position to change to Y2K  compliant  partners
and vendors.

Cost to Address Y2K Issues

Since we are in the unique  position  implementing  new enterprise wide business
solutions   to  replace   existing   manual   processes   and/or   "home  grown"
applications.,  there will be little,  if any, Y2K changes  required to existing
business applications.  All of the new business applications  implemented (or in
the  process  of  being  implemented  in 1999)  are  represented  as  being  Y2K
compliant.

We  currently  believe that  implementing  our Y2K Plan will not have a material
effect on our financial position.

Contingency Plan

We have not  formulated  a  contingency  plan at this  time but  expect  to have
specific contingency plans in place prior to September 30, 1999.

Summary

We anticipate that the Y2K Issue will not have a material  adverse effect on our
financial position or results of operations. There can be no assurance, however,
that the systems of other companies or government entities, on which we rely for
supplies,  cash payments, and future business, will be timely converted, or that
a failure to convert by another company or government entities, would not have a
material adverse effect on our financial  position or results of operations.  If
third party service providers and vendors, due to Y2K Issues, fail to provide us
with  components,  materials,  or services  which are  necessary  to deliver our
services  and  product   offerings,   with  sufficient   electrical   power  and
transportation  infrastructure  to deliver our services  and product  offerings,
then any such  failure  could have a material  adverse  effect on our ability to
conduct business, as well as our financial position and results of operations.

Interest Rate Risk

The  Company's  exposure to market risk for  changes in interest  rates  relates
primarily  to the  increase or  decrease  in the amount of  interest  income the
Company can earn on its investment  portfolio and on the increase or decrease in
the amount of interest  expense the Company must pay with respect to its various
outstanding  debt  instruments.  The risk associated with  fluctuating  interest
expense is limited,  however,  to the exposure related to those debt instruments
and credit  facilities  which are tied to market rates. The Company does not use
derivative  financial  instruments  in its  investment  portfolio.  The  Company
ensures the safety and preservation of its invested  principal funds by limiting
default risks,  market risk and reinvestment risk. The Company mitigates default
risk by investing in safe and high-credit quality securities.


<PAGE>

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Index To Consolidated Financial Statements
                               September 30, 1998



          Report of Independent Accountants

          Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 1998 and 1997

          Consolidated  Statements  of  Operations  for the  three  years  ended
          September 30, 1998

          Consolidated  Statements  of  Shareholders'  Equity  (Deficit) for the
          three years ended September 30, 1998

          Consolidated  Statements  of Cash  Flows  for the  three  years  ended
          September 30, 1998

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements










<PAGE>



                                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of SoftNet Systems, Inc.:

In our  opinion,  the  accompanying  consolidated  balance  sheets  and  related
consolidated  statements of operations,  shareholders'  equity  (deficit) and of
cash flows present fairly, in all material  respects,  the financial position of
SoftNet  Systems,  Inc. and its subsidiaries at September 30, 1998 and 1997, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended  September 30, 1998 in conformity  with  generally  accepted
accounting principles.  These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's  management;  our  responsibility  is to  express  an opinion on these
financial  statements  based on our  audits.  We  conducted  our audits of these
statements  in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing  standards  which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance about
whether the financial  statements  are free of material  misstatement.  An audit
includes  examining,  on a test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and
disclosures in the financial  statements,  assessing the  accounting  principles
used and  significant  estimates made by management,  and evaluating the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.




PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP




San Jose, California
December 1, 1998, except for Note 18
   which is dated  January 13, 1998



<PAGE>


                                      SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                            Consolidated Balance Sheets
                                         As of September 30, 1998 and 1997
                                         (In thousands, except share data)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                      1998           1997
                                                                                 ------------    -----------
<S>                                                                                 <C>          <C>        
              ASSETS

Current assets:
    Cash                                                                            $  12,504    $        37
    Accounts receivable, net of allowance of $721 and $320                              3,105          3,929
    Current portion of gross investment in leases                                       1,579          1,206
    Inventories                                                                         1,345          1,326
    Prepaid expenses                                                                      882            319
                                                                                 ------------   ------------
       Total current assets                                                            19,415          6,817

Restricted cash                                                                           800              -
Property and equipment, net                                                             6,523          1,108
Gross investment in leases, net of current portion                                      1,863          3,054
Other assets                                                                            1,124            766
Costs in excess of fair value of net assets acquired, net                                 955          5,141
Net assets associated with discontinued operations                                      3,875          3,435
                                                                                  -----------    -----------
                                                                                    $  34,555      $  20,321
                                                                                  ===========    ===========

       LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)
Current liabilities:
    Accounts payable and accrued expenses                                          $    9,423     $    4,969
    Current portion of long-term debt                                                   1,821          1,384
    Current portion of capital leases                                                     632             23
    Deferred revenue                                                                      100            143
                                                                                  -----------   ------------
       Total current liabilities                                                       11,976          6,519
                                                                                  -----------   ------------

Long-term debt, net of current portion                                                 10,236         11,727
                                                                                  -----------   ------------

Capital lease obligations, net of current portion                                         327             47
                                                                                  -----------   ------------

Commitments and contingencies

Redeemable convertible preferred stock, $.10 par value,
    30,000 shares authorized, 20,757 shares issued and outstanding                     18,187              -
                                                                                  -----------   ------------

Shareholders' equity (deficit):
    Preferred stock, $.10 par value, 3,970,000 shares authorized,
       none issued and outstanding                                                          -              -
    Common stock, $.01 par value, 25,000,000 shares authorized,
       8,191,550 and 6,870,559 shares issued and outstanding, respectively                 82             69
    Deferred stock compensation                                                          (188)             -
    Capital in excess of par value                                                     43,700         34,379
    Accumulated deficit                                                               (49,765)       (32,420)
                                                                                  -----------   ------------
       Total shareholders' equity (deficit)                                            (6,171)         2,028
                                                                                  -----------   ------------
                                                                                    $  34,555     $   20,321
                                                                                  ===========   ============

<FN>

              The accompanying  notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


                                      SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                       Consolidated Statements of Operations
                                   For the Three Years Ended  September 30, 1998
                                       (In thousands, except per share data)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                              1998         1997         1996
                                                                         -----------  -----------  -----------
<S>                                                                       <C>           <C>          <C>      
Net sales                                                                 $   14,060    $  21,338    $  19,584
Cost of sales                                                                 10,628       11,935       11,375
                                                                          ----------    ---------    ---------
    Gross profit                                                               3,432        9,403        8,209
                                                                          ----------    ---------    ---------

Operating expenses:
    Selling                                                                    4,162        1,905        1,794
    Engineering                                                                2,834        2,234        1,770
    General and administrative                                                 7,883        3,628        4,200
    Amortization of goodwill and transaction costs                             1,286        1,287          993
    Loss on impairment of assets                                               3,100            -            -
    Costs associated with change in product line and other                         -        2,137        2,164
                                                                          ----------    ---------    ---------
       Total operating expenses                                               19,265       11,191       10,921
                                                                          ----------    ---------    ---------

Loss from continuing operations                                              (15,833)      (1,788)      (2,712)

Other income (expense):
    Interest expense                                                          (1,416)      (1,145)      (1,220)
    Gain on available-for-sale securities                                          -            -        5,689
    Other income                                                                 320           49           19
                                                                          ----------    ---------    ---------

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes                 (16,929)      (2,884)       1,776

Provision for income taxes                                                         -            -            -
                                                                          ----------    ---------    ---------

Income (loss) from continuing operations before discontinued
    operations and extraordinary item                                        (16,929)      (2,884)       1,776

Income (loss) from discontinued operations                                       (73)         739       (1,812)
Extraordinary item - loss on sale of business                                      -         (486)      (6,061)
                                                                           ----------    ---------    ---------
Net loss                                                                   $ (17,002)    $ (2,631)    $ (6,097)
                                                                           ==========     ========    =========

Preferred dividends                                                             (343)            -            -
                                                                           ----------    ---------    ---------

Net loss applicable to common shares                                       $ (17,345)    $ (2,631)    $ (6,097)
                                                                           ==========     ========    =========
Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share:
    For continuing operations                                             $    (2.29)     $ (0.44)   $    0.30
    For discontinued operations                                                (0.01)        0.11        (0.31)
    For extraordinary item - sale of business                                      -        (0.07)       (1.04)
    For preferred dividends                                                    (0.05)           -            -
                                                                           ----------    ---------    ---------
    Net loss applicable to common shares                                  $    (2.35)     $ (0.40)    $  (1.05)
                                                                           ==========     ========    =========

    Shares used to compute basic and diluted loss per share                    7,391        6,627        5,819
                                                                           ----------    ---------    ---------
<FN>

              The accompanying  notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
            Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity (Deficit)
                  For the Three Years ended September 30, 1998
                                 (In thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                    Unrealized
                                                                                                   appreciation
                                                           Deferred     Capital in                 of available       Total
                                         Common Stock        stock       excess of    Accumulated    for-sale     shareholders'  
                                        Shares  Amount   compensation    par value      deficit     securities   equity (deficit)
                                        ------  ------   ------------   -----------   -----------  ------------  ----------------

<S>                                      <C>    <C>          <C>        <C>           <C>           <C>              <C>         
Balance, October 1, 1995                 5,547  $   55       $     -    $   27,584    $  (23,692)    $   7,738       $    11,685 
   Exercise of warrants                     12       -             -            21             -             -                21 
   Settlements of related                                                                                                        
      party receivable                       -       -             -           815             -             -               815 
   Conversion of convertible                                                                                                     
      subordinated notes                   781       8             -         4,077             -             -             4,085 
   Common stock issued in                                                                                                        
      connection with acquisitions,                                                                                              
      net of acquisition costs             200       2             -         1,020             -             -             1,022 
   Unrealized appreciation of                                                                                                    
      available-for-sale securities          -       -             -             -             -        (7,738)           (7,738)
   Net loss                                  -       -             -             -        (6,097)            -            (6,097)
                                        ------  ------   ------------   -----------   -----------  ------------  ----------------

Balance, September 30, 1996              6,540      65             -        33,517       (29,789)            -             3,793 
   Exercise of warrants                    251       3             -           432             -             -               435 
   Conversion of convertible                                                                                                     
      subordinated notes                    70       1             -           386             -             -               387 
   Common stock issued to pay                                                                                                    
      acquisition costs                     10       -             -            44             -             -                44 
   Net loss                                  -       -             -             -        (2,631)            -            (2,631)
                                        ------  ------   ------------   -----------   -----------  ------------  ----------------

Balance, September 30, 1997              6,871      69             -        34,379       (32,420)            -             2,028 
   Exercise of warrants                    684       7             -         3,879             -             -             3,886 
   Exercise of options                     152       1             -           830             -             -               831 
   Conversion of convertible                                                                                                     
      subordinated notes                   185       2             -         1,116             -             -             1,118 
   Common stock warrants issued with                                                                                             
      preferred stock -                                                                                                          
       Series A                              -       -             -           435             -             -               435 
       Series B                              -       -             -           900             -             -               900 
       Series C                              -       -             -           277             -             -               277 
   Conversion of preferred shares                                                                                                
      to common stock                       299      3             -         1,663             -             -             1,666 
   Dividends paid on preferred shares -                                                                                          
      Common stock:                                                                                                              
       Series A                              1       -             -             6            (6)            -                 - 
      Additional preferred shares:                                                                                               
       Series A                              -       -             -             -          (101)            -              (101)
       Series B                              -       -             -             -          (125)            -              (125)
       Series C                              -       -             -             -           (31)            -               (31)
      Cash:                                                                                                                      
       Series A                              -       -             -             -           (38)            -               (38)
       Series B                              -       -             -             -           (42)            -               (42)
   Deferred stock compensation               -       -          (215)          215             -             -                 - 
   Amortization of deferred stock                                                                                                
     compensation                            -       -            27             -             -             -                27 
   Net loss                                  -       -             -             -       (17,002)            -           (17,002)
                                        ------  ------   ------------   -----------   -----------  ------------  ----------------
Balance, September 30, 1998              8,192  $   82       $  (188)   $   43,700    $  (49,765)    $       -       $    (6,171)
                                        ======  ======   ============   ===========   ===========  ============  ================

<FN>

              The accompanying  notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>


                                      SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                                   For the Three Years Ended September 30, 1998
                                                  (In thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                            1998           1997          1996  
                                                                        ------------    ---------     ---------
<S>                                                                        <C>          <C>          <C>     
Cash flows from operating activities:
   Net loss                                                                $ (17,002)   $  (2,631)   $  (6,097)
   Adjustments to reconcile net loss to 
        net cash used in operating activities:
      (Income) loss from discontinued operations                                  73         (739)       1,812 
      Depreciation and amortization                                            2,153        1,798        1,374 
      Loss on impairment of assets                                             3,100            -            - 
      Amortization of deferred stock compensation                                 27            -            - 
      Write-off of prepaid software licenses                                       -        1,000            - 
      Write-off of capitalized product design costs                                -        1,137            - 
      Loss on the disposal of property and equipment                             118           40            - 
      Gain on sale of available-for-sale securities                                -            -       (5,689)
      Debt discount and deferred financing amortization                            -           19           95 
      Provision for bad debts                                                    680          174          101 
      Loss on sale of business                                                     -            -        6,061 
      Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
             Accounts receivable                                               1,021       (1,471)        (521)
             Gross investment in leases                                          818       (3,054)           - 
             Inventories                                                         303        1,466       (1,076)
             Prepaid expenses                                                   (494)         (65)         (25)
             Accounts payable and accrued expenses                             4,551          930          775 
             Deferred revenue                                                    (43)          17          (81)
                                                                        ------------    ---------     ---------
Net cash used in operating activities of continuing operations                (4,695)      (1,379)      (3,271)
                                                                        ------------    ---------     ---------
Net cash used in operating activities of discontinued operations                (223)      (1,089)      (1,132)
                                                                        ------------    ---------     ---------

Cash flows from investing activities:
   Purchase of property and equipment                                         (5,663)        (510)        (732)
   Purchase of prepaid software licenses                                           -            -       (1,000)
   Additions to capitalized product design                                         -         (654)        (462)
   Net cash paid in connection with acquisitions                                   -            -         (195)
   Settlement of remaining obligations to owners
      of discontinued operations                                                   -            -         (117)
   Proceeds from sale of investment securities                                     -            -        7,678 
   Proceeds from sale of property and equipment                                    -           15            - 
   Other                                                                          49           15            - 
                                                                        ------------    ---------     ---------
Net cash provided by (used in) investing 
      activities of continuing operations                                     (5,614)      (1,134)       5,172 
                                                                        ------------    ---------     ---------
Net cash used in investing 
      activities of discontinued operations                                     (112)         (46)      (2,073)
                                                                        ------------    ---------     ---------

Cash flows from financing activities:
   Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt,
      net of deferred financing costs                                            730        3,665            - 
   Repayment of long-term debt                                                (1,363)        (753)         (48)
   Borrowings under revolving credit note                                     16,089        9,685       12,802 
   Net payments under revolving credit note                                  (16,891)      (9,884)     (11,923)
   Net proceeds from issuance of convertible preferred stock                  21,208            -            - 
   Proceeds from exercise of warrants                                          3,886          435           22 
   Proceeds from exercise of options                                             831            -            - 
   Proceeds from settlement of related party receivable                            -            -          815 
   Payment of put obligation                                                       -            -         (200)
   Preferred dividends paid in cash                                              (80)           -            - 
   Restricted cash                                                              (800)           -            - 
   Principal repayments of capital lease obligations                            (180)         (85)        (100)
                                                                        ------------    ---------     ---------
Net cash provided by financing 
    activities of continuing operations                                       23,430        3,063        1,368 
                                                                        ------------    ---------     ---------
Net cash provided by (used in) financing 
    activities of discontinued operations                                       (319)         196         (211)
                                                                        ------------    ---------     ---------

Net increase (decrease) in cash                                               12,467         (389)        (147)
Cash, beginning of period                                                         37          426          573 
                                                                        ------------    ---------     ---------
Cash, end of period                                                         $ 12,504    $      37     $    426 
                                                                        ============    =========     =========

<FN>

              The accompanying  notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1.  Nature of Business

SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  is  engaged in the
business  of  developing,   marketing,   installing  and  servicing   electronic
information   and  document   management   systems   that  allow   customers  to
electronically  request  and  electronically  receive  information.  The Company
operates through three segments:  document management,  telecommunications,  and
Internet  services.   The  document   management   segment  designs,   develops,
manufactures   and  integrates   comprehensive,   non-paper  based  systems  and
components  that enable the Company to deliver to its  customers  cost-effective
solutions for the storage,  indexing and/or distribution of high-volume computer
generated  or entered  information.  The  telecommunications  segment  sells and
services  telephone  and  computer  hardware  manufactured  by others to provide
communications  solutions  through the design,  implementation,  maintenance and
integration  of voice,  data and video  communications  equipment  and services.
Additionally,  the telecommunications  segment sells and installs local and long
distance network  services.  The Internet  services  segment  provides  Internet
access, World Wide Web and database development.

On September  15, 1995, a wholly  owned  subsidiary  of the Company  merged with
Kansas Communications,  Inc. ("KCI"), which was the surviving corporation in the
merger,  pursuant to an  Agreement  and Plan of  Reorganization  dated March 24,
1995,  by and  between the  Company  and KCI (see Note 3). The  transaction  was
accounted for as a pooling of interests for  financial  reporting  purposes and,
accordingly,  the financial  statements of the merged companies  relating to all
periods  presented  had  previously  been  restated and  presented on a combined
basis. However, in July 1998, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a plan to
discontinue  operations of the  telecommunications  segment (see Note 17), which
includes  the  operations  of KCI.  Accordingly,  the  operating  results of the
telecommunications  segment have been segregated from continuing  operations and
reported as a separate line item on the statement of operations.  The assets and
liabilities of such operations have been reflected as a net asset.

2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation


Basis of Presentation

These  financial  statements  have been prepared  assuming that the Company will
continue as a going  concern.  The Company has  sustained  recurring  losses and
negative cash flows from  operations.  Over the past year, the Company's  growth
has been funded  through a combination  of private  equity,  bank debt and lease
financings.  As of December 31, 1998, the Company had approximately $3.5 million
of unrestricted cash. In addition,  on January 12, 1999, the Company executed an
agreement with a group of institutional investors whereby the Company issued $12
million in  convertible  subordinated  loan notes (see Note 18). The Company has
also received a commitment to provide, subject to final documentation, a secured
$3 million  loan from a financial  lender and is in  negotiations  with a vendor
with regard to a $6 million  equipment lease line. The Company believes that, as
a result of this, it currently has sufficient cash and financing  commitments to
meet its  funding  requirements  over the next year.  However,  the  Company has
experienced and continues to experience  negative operating margins and negative
cash flows from  operations,  as well as an ongoing  requirement for substantial
additional  capital  investment.  The Company expects that it will need to raise
substantial  additional  capital to  accomplish  its business plan over the next
several  years.  The Company's  future cash  requirements  for its business plan
expansion  will depend on a number of factors  including (i) the number of cable
affiliate contracts,  (ii) cable modem and associated costs of equipment,  (iii)
the rate at which subscribers  purchase the Company's  Internet service offering
and (iv) the level of marketing  required to acquire and retain  subscribers and
to attain a competitive  position in the marketplace.  In addition,  the Company
may  wish  to   selectively   pursue   possible   acquisitions   of  businesses,
technologies,  content or products  complementary to those of the Company in the
future  in  order  to  expand  its  Internet   presence  and  achieve  operating
efficiencies.  The Company expects to seek to obtain additional  funding through
the sale of public or private debt and/or  equity  securities  or through a bank
credit  facility.  If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity
or convertible debt securities,  the percentage ownership of the stockholders of
the Company will be reduced, stockholders may experience additional dilution and
such  securities may have rights,  preferences or privileges  senior to those of
the Company's common stock.  There can be no assurance as to the availability or
terms upon which such financing might be available.  These financial  statements
have been  prepared  assuming  that the Company will continue as a going concern
and do not include any  adjustments  that might  result from the outcome of this
uncertainty.

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated  financial  statements include the accounts of SoftNet Systems,
Inc. ("SoftNet") and its subsidiaries ("Company").  All significant intercompany
accounts  and   transactions   have  been   eliminated  in  preparation  of  the
consolidated financial statements.

<PAGE>

Restatements and Reclassifications

The financial  statements have been restated for the effects of the discontinued
operations   of  the   telecommunications   segment.   (see  Note  3).   Certain
reclassifications  have been made in the 1997  financial  statements  to conform
with the 1998 presentation.

Use of Estimates and Assumptions

The  preparation  of  consolidated   financial  statements  in  conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions  that affect the reported  amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the reported  amounts of the  revenues  and expenses  during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash

The Company  considers cash  equivalents to include all highly liquid  financial
instruments  purchased  with  maturities  of three months or less at the time of
purchase to be cash equivalents.

In 1998,  the  Company  pledged  $800,000  as  collateral  on a Letter of Credit
relating to certain leased office space. This amount is classified as restricted
cash in the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 1998.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial  instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist primarily of trade receivables.  Credit risk is minimized as
a result of the large number and diverse nature of the Company's  customers.  As
of September 30, 1998, the Company had no significant  concentrations  of credit
risk.

Significant Customer

For the fiscal year ended  September 30, 1998, one customer (GID GmbH) accounted
for 18% of the  Company's  consolidated  revenue.  For  the  fiscal  year  ended
September 30, 1997, three separate customers (Marshall & Ilsley Corp., NCR Corp.
and Bell & Howell Company)  accounted for 19%, 13% and 12% respectively,  of the
Company's  consolidated  revenue.  For the fiscal year ended September 1996, one
customer (NCR Corp.) accounted for 27% of the Company's consolidated revenue.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  Cost is determined using
the first-in, first-out method.

Property and Equipment

Property  and  equipment,  including  leasehold  improvements  and  property and
equipment  financed through capital leases,  are recorded at cost. When property
and  equipment  is  retired  or  otherwise  disposed  of,  the cost and  related
accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the resulting gain or
loss is included in income.  Depreciation and amortization is computed using the
straight-line  method over the  estimated  useful lives of the assets  generally
three to seven years or the life of the lease, whichever is shorter.

Capitalized Software Costs

Certain costs of acquired software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed are
capitalized and amortized over the economic useful life of the related  software
product,  which is generally five years.  Net unamortized  capitalized  software
costs,  which  resulted  from the  acquisition  of MTC,  are  included  in other
non-current  assets and were  $392,000 and  $592,000 at  September  30, 1998 and
1997, respectively.

Capitalized Product Design

Capitalized  product  design  costs  include  costs  associated  with  enhancing
features on existing  products,  prior to their  introduction to the market, but
after technological feasibility has been proven. Management evaluates the future
realization  of capitalized  product design costs  quarterly and writes down any
amounts that management  deems unlikely to be recovered  through future products
sales.  Any  amounts  deemed  unrecoverable  are written  down to the  estimated
recoverable amount at the time of evaluation.

Costs in Excess of Fair Value of Net Assets Acquired

The  excess of costs of  acquired  companies  over the fair  value of net assets
acquired  (goodwill) are amortized on a straight-line  basis over 3 to 10 years.
Amortization  expense for fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $900,000,  $1.1 million
and  $813,000,  respectively.  During  fiscal  1996 the  Company  wrote off $3.6
million of net goodwill resulting from the sale of the non-application  oriented
interconnect  business in Chicago, IL (see Note 6). Accumulated  amortization at
September 30, 1998 and 1997 was $2.4 million and $1.9 million, respectively.

<PAGE>

The Company assesses the recoverability of unamortized goodwill by reviewing the
sufficiency of estimated future operating income and undiscounted  cash flows of
the related entities to cover the amortization during the remaining amortization
period.  If the carrying amount of goodwill is not recoverable from undiscounted
cash flows, amounts  unrecoverable from future product sales are written down in
the period in which the  determination  is made.  In fiscal  1998,  the  Company
reduced  its  carrying  amount of  goodwill  by $3.1  million  as a result of an
impairment loss on the long-lived assets of the document management segment.

Investments in Equity Securities

In 1995, the Company adopted Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No. 115 "Accounting for Certain  Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." The
adoption of SFAS No. 115 resulted in an increase to shareholders'  equity in the
fourth  quarter of 1995 of $7.7 million upon the  completion  by IMNET  Systems,
Inc. of its initial  public  offering of common stock.  Prior to this  offering,
there had been no public  market for this common  stock.  At September 30, 1995,
the Company's  investment  in marketable  equity  securities  was  classified as
available-for-sale  and, as a result,  was stated at fair value.  During  fiscal
1996 the Company sold its entire holdings of IMNET Systems,  Inc. and realized a
gain of $5.7 million.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The fair value of the Company's  debt,  current and  long-term,  is estimated to
approximate the carrying value of these  liabilities  based upon borrowing rates
currently available to the Company for borrowings with similar terms.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue from the  document  management  segment is  generated  from four primary
sources: product sales, installations, royalty and on-going maintenance. Product
sales and installation  revenue are recognized upon shipment,  installation,  or
final customer acceptance, depending on specific contract terms. Royalty revenue
is recognized  monthly based upon estimated  maintenance  fees and is subject to
verification  against actual fees on a semi-annual basis.  Revenue from on-going
maintenance is recognized as services are completed.

Revenue  from the  Internet  services  segment is  generated  from  initial  and
recurring monthly Internet access and Web and database development.  Set-up fees
for Internet  access  customers are recognized  upon  completion of the service.
Monthly access fees are recognized in the month of service.

Research and Development

Research  and  development  is  primarily  incurred by the  document  management
segment.  During fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company  expended $1.3 million,
$1.8 million and $1.1 million, respectively, for research and development.

Loss on Impairment of Assets

In  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No.  121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be Disposed  Of," the  Company  recorded an  impairment  loss on the  long-lived
assets  of the  document  management  segment  .  The  trends  in  the  document
management  segment indicate that the  undiscounted  future cash flows from this
business would be less than the carrying value of the long-lived  assets related
to the document  management  segment . Accordingly,  in fiscal 1998, the Company
recognized an asset  impairment  loss of $3.1 million,  all of which was reduced
from the carrying  value of goodwill.  This loss is the  difference  between the
carrying  value of the document  management  segment's  property and  equipment,
gross  investment  in leases to  customers,  other assets and goodwill and other
intangibles,  and the fair value of these assets based on  discounted  estimated
future cash flows.

Income Taxes

The Company recognizes the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current
year and recognizes  deferred tax liabilities and assets for the expected future
tax  consequences  of events and  transactions  that have been recognized in the
Company's  financial  statements  or tax  returns.  The  Company  currently  has
substantial  net operating loss  carryforwards.  The Company has recorded a 100%
valuation  allowance against net deferred tax assets due to uncertainty of their
ultimate realization.

Earnings (Loss) Per Share

The Company adopted Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standard (SFAS) No. 128,
"Earnings Per Share,  " in fiscal 1998.  SFAS 128 requires the  presentation  of
basic earnings per share ("EPS") and diluted EPS, for companies with potentially
dilutive securities,  such as options.  Earnings per share for all prior periods
have been restated to conform with the provisions of SFAS 128.

<PAGE>

Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted average number of shares
of common  stock.  Diluted  earnings  per share is computed  using the  weighted
average  number  of  shares  of  common  stock  and  common  equivalents  shares
outstanding  during  the  period.  Common  equivalents  consist  of  convertible
preferred  stock (using the if converted  method) and stock options and warrants
(using the treasury stock method).  Common  equivalents shares are excluded from
the computation as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

In June 1997, the Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board (FASB) issued FAS 130,
"Reporting  Comprehensive  Income." This  statement,  effective for fiscal years
beginning  after  December  15,  1997,  would  require  the  Company  to  report
components of  comprehensive  income in a financial  statement that is displayed
with the same prominence as other financial statements.  Comprehensive income is
defined by Concepts  Statement No. 6, Elements of Financial  Statements,  as the
change in equity of a business  enterprise during a period from transactions and
other events and circumstances from nonowner sources. It includes all changes in
equity during a period except those  resulting  from  investments  by owners and
distributions  to owners.  The Company has not yet determined its  comprehensive
income.

Also in June 1997,  the FASB issued FAS 131,  "Disclosures  about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related  Information."  This  statement,  effective for financial
statements for periods beginning after December 15, 1997, requires that a public
business  enterprise  report  financial and  descriptive  information  about its
reportable operating segments.  Generally,  financial information is required to
be  reported  on the basis that it is used  internally  for  evaluating  segment
performance and deciding how to allocate resources to segments.  The adoption of
FAS 131 is not  expected to have a material  impact on the  Company's  financial
statements.

3.  Discontinued Operations

In July 1998,  the Company's  Board of Directors  adopted a plan to  discontinue
operations  of its  telecommunications  segment.  This  segment  consists of the
Company's wholly owned subsidiary Kansas  Communications,  Inc.  ("KCI"),  along
with KCI's Milwaukee  operations  purchased from Executone  Management  Systems,
Inc. Accordingly,  the operating results of the telecommunications  segment have
been segregated from continuing  operations and reported as a separate line item
on the statement of operations.  The assets and  liabilities of such  operations
have been reflected as a net asset.

The Company is in the process of  negotiating  the sale of these  operations and
expects that the sale will be completed within a twelve month period. Management
does not  anticipate  a loss on the sale and  intends  to use sale  proceeds  to
reduce outstanding indebtedness and provide additional working capital.

Kansas Communications, Inc.

On September  15, 1995, a wholly  owned  subsidiary  of the Company  merged with
Kansas Communications, Inc., pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization
dated March 24, 1995,  by and between the Company and KCI. The KCI  shareholders
received 1.3 million shares of the Company's common stock in exchange for all of
the outstanding  shares of KCI. The business  combination was accounted for as a
pooling of interests and,  accordingly,  the operations of KCI had been included
with the  results of the  Company  for all  periods  presented.  KCI is a Kansas
City-based  company  which sells and  services  telephone  systems,  third-party
computer  hardware and application  oriented  peripheral  products such as voice
mail,  automated  attendant systems,  interactive voice response (IVR) and video
conferencing systems.

On December  29,  1995,  KCI  acquired  the  Milwaukee  operations  of Executone
Information  Systems,  Inc.  ("Executone-Milwaukee"),  in a business combination
accounted for as a purchase.  Executone-Milwaukee sells and services proprietary
voice  processing  systems.  The purchase  price of  approximately  $1.9 million
consisted of $100,000 of cash and a note payable for $1.8 million.  The note was
paid in February 1996. The operations of Executone-Milwaukee  have been included
in the  results of the  Company  since  December  29,  1995.  As a result of the
acquisition,  the Company  recorded  costs in excess of fair value of net assets
acquired of $1.8 million,  an amount which is being amortized on a straight-line
basis over twenty years.

Financial Information for the Telecommunications Segment

Operating results of the discontinued  telecommunications segment are as follows
(in thousands):

                                                 1998         1997         1996 
                                            ---------    ---------      ------- 

     Revenues                                $ 16,065      $17,218      $21,803 
     Income (loss) before income taxes            277          739       (1,812)
     Provision for income taxes                  (350)          --          --  
     Net income (loss)                            (73)         739       (1,812)

<PAGE>

     Interest expense allocated to the discontinued  telecommunications  segment
     totaled $5,000, $49,000 and $377,000 in 1998, 1997 and 1996 respectively.

     The provision for income taxes  recorded in 1998 is related to prior period
     adjustments in deferred maintenance revenue for KCI.

Assets and  liabilities of the  discontinued  telecommunications  segment are as
follows at September 30 (in thousands):

                                                          1998         1997
Current assets:
  Cash                                               $      --    $      --
  Accounts receivable, net                               1,734        1,848
  Inventories                                            2,248        2,984
  Prepaid expenses                                          36          154
                                                   -----------     --------
                                                         4,018        4,986
Property, plant and equipment, net                         427          529
Goodwill, net                                            1,663        1,759
Other noncurrent assets                                     21          217
                                                     ---------     --------
                                                        $6,129       $7,491
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable                                      $1,582       $2,295
  Current portion, long term debt                            -          328
  Current portion, capital lease obligation                 32           23
  Deferred revenue                                         593        1,336
                                                      --------      -------
                                                         2,207        3,982
Long-term debt, net of current portion                       -           20
Capital lease obligation, net of current portion            47           54
                                                     ---------     --------
                                                        $2,254       $4,056
Net assets associated with discontinued operations      $3,875       $3,435
                                                        ======       ======

4. ISP Channel, Inc. (formerly MediaCity World, Inc.)

On June 21, 1996, the Company  acquired ISP Channel,  Inc.  (formerly  MediaCity
World,  Inc.) ("ISP  Channel"),  in a business  combination  accounted  for as a
purchase. ISP Channel is an Internet Service Provider with operations in the San
Francisco Bay Area and Reno,  Nevada.  The purchase  price  consisted of 200,000
shares of the Company's  common stock valued at $5.11 per share.  The operations
of ISP Channel have been  included in the results of the Company  since June 21,
1996. As a result of the acquisition of ISP Channel,  the Company recorded costs
in excess of fair value of net assets acquired of $1.2 million,  being amortized
on a straight line basis over three years.

5. Micrographic Technology Corporation

On September 15, 1995, the Company acquired Micrographic  Technology Corporation
("MTC") pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated March 24, 1995
in a business  combination  accounted  for as a purchase  transaction.  MTC is a
designer,  developer,  manufacturer and integrator of  comprehensive,  non-paper
based  systems  and  components  that  enable MTC to  deliver  to its  customers
cost-effective   solutions  for  storage,   indexing   and/or   distribution  of
high-volume output data streams.  The MTC shareholders'  received 778,000 shares
of the  Company's  common stock valued at $6.95 per share,  $1.1 million in cash
and $2.8 million principal amount of the Company's debentures. The operations of
MTC have been included with the results of the Company since September 16, 1995.

The cost in excess of fair value of net assets  acquired  incurred in connection
with  the   acquisition  of  MTC  of  $6.1  million  is  being  amortized  on  a
straight-line  basis  over  ten  years.  Additionally,  in  connection  with the
acquisition  of MTC,  the Company  incurred a one-time  charge in fiscal 1995 of
$5.0 million for the write-off of acquired  in-process unproven  technology.  At
the date of acquisition of MTC, the Company  determined  that the  technological
feasibility of the acquired  technology was unproven and that the technology had
no known future uses.

The Company  determined  prior to September 30, 1998 that it is more likely than
not to dispose of MTC  within a one year  period.  The  Company  has  received a
letter of intent from a potential buyer which has been approved by the Company's
Board of Directors,  subject to shareholders' approval. The Company has reviewed
the  discounted  cash flow to determine  the  impairment  of  long-lived  assets
resulting in an aggregate  amount of $3.1 million loss which is included as part
of the Company's operating results (see Note 18).

<PAGE>

6.  Divestitures  of Utilization  Management  Associates,  Inc. and  Communicate
Direct, Inc.

Utilization Management Associates, Inc.

During  September  1995,  the  Company's  Board of Directors  approved a plan to
rescind its November 1993 acquisition of Utilization Management Associates, Inc.
("UMA"). The plan provided for the exchange of the Company's interest in UMA for
all  common  shares  of the  Company  held by the  former  shareholders  of UMA,
including  related put options,  and the  cancellation  of SoftNet stock options
held by the former shareholders of UMA.

Effective  November 20, 1995,  the plan was executed  such that the Company paid
the former shareholders of UMA $200,000 in satisfaction of it's common stock put
obligation and received in exchange  29,630 shares of SoftNet  common stock.  In
addition,  the  Company  paid  approximately  $300,000 in cash and notes for the
termination  of  non-compete,   employment,   and  earn-out  agreements  and  an
irrevocable  and  unconditional  release  of the  Company  from any  outstanding
obligations and liabilities to UMA or the shareholders of UMA.

Communicate Direct, Inc.

On October 31, 1994, the Company acquired  Communicate Direct, Inc. ("CDI") in a
business combination accounted for as a purchase.  CDI, a Chicago-based company,
sold  and  serviced  telephone  systems,   third-party   computer  hardware  and
application oriented peripheral products such as voice mail, automated attendant
systems,  interactive voice response ("IVR") and video conferencing systems. The
operations  of CDI have been  included  with the  results  of the  Company  from
November 1, 1994 until they were  subsequently  sold.  During  fiscal 1996,  the
Company sold a significant  portion of the CDI business and, during fiscal 1997,
all of the  remaining  operation  was  sold.  The  Company  acquired  all of the
outstanding  stock of CDI for $1.9  million,  such  consideration  consisting of
290,858 shares of the Company's Series A Convertible Preferred Stock ("Preferred
Shares") valued at $6.00 per share and cash. In April 1995, the Preferred Shares
were converted into common shares on a one-to-one  basis  following the approval
of the  Company's  shareholders.  The  acquisition  price has been  adjusted for
settlement  of an earn-out  agreement  and  resolution  of certain  post-closing
purchase  adjustments.  The cost in excess of fair value of net assets  acquired
incurred  in  connection  with  the  acquisition  of CDI  of  $4.2  million  was
originally to be amortized on a straight-line  basis over ten years. As a result
of the 1996 sale, the Company wrote off the unamortized  balance of the goodwill
which arose from the original acquisition.

In June  1996,  CDI  sold its  non-application  oriented  interconnect  business
located in the Chicago, Illinois metropolitan area, which at this time comprised
substantially all of the business of CDI, to Next Call, Inc. ("Next Call") for a
$600,000 ten year note  receivable.  In connection  with the sale, CDI agreed to
lend Next Call up to $1.0 million to fund operating losses, as defined,  for the
first twelve months of operations.  The loan  agreement  required CDI to advance
cash to Next Call on a monthly basis to cover  operating  cash short fall.  Next
Call  was  required  to repay  such  advances  when it  became  profitable  on a
cumulative  basis.  After the first twelve months,  any amount still outstanding
from Next Call was to be  forgiven.  As of September  30, 1996,  the Company had
made $189,000 in advances  pursuant to this  agreement.  Subsequent to September
30, 1996, Next Call ceased operations.

As a result of the sale to Next  Call and the  uncertainty  resulting  from Next
Call's  subsequent shut down, the Company  incurred an  extraordinary  charge of
$6.0 million for the loss on the sale of this  business.  This loss includes the
write-off of unamortized  goodwill  which resulted from the initial  purchase of
CDI in October 1994, deferred  acquisition costs associated with the purchase of
CDI, severance payments, inventory, leasehold improvements, the notes receivable
from Next Call and all amounts loaned to the buyer.  The  disposition of CDI was
not  contemplated  at the time of the pooling with KCI. The loss  resulting from
the  disposition of certain assets and the assumption of certain  liabilities of
CDI,  within a two  year  period  following  a  pooling  of  interests  has been
classified as an extraordinary item as required by generally accepted accounting
principles.  This  extraordinary  loss is net of taxes and the  Company  has not
recognized an income tax benefit  associated  with this write-off as the Company
has established a full valuation  allowance for total deferred tax assets due to
the uncertainty of their ultimate realization.

During fiscal 1997, CDI sold its operations that support its Fujitsu maintenance
base,  as well as all other  remaining  assets  associated  with  CDI,  to a new
company  formed by John I.  Jellinek,  the  Company's  former  president,  chief
executive officer and director and Philip Kenny, a former SoftNet director.  The
buyer acquired certain assets in exchange for a $209,000 promissory note and the
assumption of current liabilities of approximately $750,000. In addition, at the
closing the buyer paid off  $438,000 of existing  Company  bank debt and entered
into a sub-lease of CDI's facility in Buffalo Grove,  Illinois.  At the closing,
the buyer merged with Telcom Midwest, LLC., and the two former directors and the
other two shareholders of the merged company personally  guaranteed  obligations
arising out of the promissory note, the sub-lease arrangement and the assumption
of certain  liabilities.  The personal  guarantees  of the  promissory  note are
several.  The personal  guarantees  of the sub-lease are limited to $400,000 and
are on a joint and several basis. The personal guarantees of assumed liabilities
are on a joint and several  basis but are  limited to the two former  directors.
Concurrent with this transaction,  Messrs.  Jellinek and Kenny resigned from the
Company's  board.  The Company  incurred an  additional  loss of $486,000 on the

<PAGE>

final disposition of the assets of CDI. As was the case with the loss associated
with the sale of assets to Next Call, this was accounted for as an extraordinary
loss.

7.  Inventory and Property and Equipment

The  components of  inventories as of September 30, 1998 and 1997 are as follows
(in thousands):

                                                            1998         1997
                                                        --------      -------

                           Raw materials                $     28      $   126
                           Work-in-process                   408          217
                           Finished goods                    909          983
                                                        --------     --------
                                                          $1,345       $1,326
                                                        ========     ========

Balances of major classes of fixed assets and  allowances  for  depreciation  at
September 30, 1998 and 1997 are as follows (in thousands):

                                                           1998          1997 
                                                       --------      -------- 

            Leasehold improvements                      $ 1,335      $    155 
            Furniture and fixtures                           83           276 
            Equipment                                     6,603         1,566 
                                                       --------      ---------
                Total                                     8,021         1,997 
            Less allowance for depreciation
              and amortization                           (1,498)         (889)
                                                       --------     --------- 
            Property and equipment, net                 $ 6,523       $ 1,108 
                                                       ========     ========= 

Included in the above fixed assets are asset  amounts  representing  capitalized
leases of $1,157,000 and $192,000 at September 30, 1998 and 1997,  respectively.
The accumulated  depreciation  related to these assets was $126,000 and $60,000,
respectively.

8.  Debt
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Debt is summarized as follows (in thousands):

                                                                                               1998       1997 
                                                                                           --------   -------- 
   <S>                                                                                     <C>        <C>      
   Revolving  Credit  Note  with  maximum  borrowings  of $9.5  million  bearing
     interest,  payable  monthly,  at the bank's  prime rate plus 1% (the bank's
     prime rate being
     8.25% at September 30, 1998). The note matures on January 15, 2000                     $ 5,098   $  5,900 

   Equipment Financing Agreement with a maximum borrowing limit of $3.15 million,
     bearing interest at the bank's prime rate plus 1% (the bank's prime rate being 8.25%
     at September 30, 1998), principal and interest due in 60 monthly payments with the
     final payment due May 2002                                                               1,559      2,398 

   Draw Note with maximum borrowings for $1.5 million bearing interest,  payable
     monthly,  at the  bank's  prime rate plus 1% (the  bank's  prime rate being
     8.25% at
     September 30, 1998)                                                                        737        675 

   9% Convertible Debentures due September 2000, interest payable quarterly,
     convertible into the Company's common shares at $6.75 per share                          1,787      2,619 

   5%Convertible Subordinated  Debentures,  due September 2002, interest payable
     quarterly, convertible into the Company's common stock at $8.25 per share
     after December 31, 1998                                                                  1,444          - 

   6%Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures,  due February 2002 with  semi-annual
     interest payments, convertible into the Company's common stock at $8.10 per
     share                                                                                      720        780 

   9%Convertible   Subordinated  Notes  due  December  1998,   interest  payable
     quarterly,   subordinated   to  all  other   liabilities  of  the  Company,
     convertible into the
     Company's common shares at $5.00 per share                                                   -         25 

<PAGE>

   10%  Convertible  Subordinated  Notes due  October  1999,  bearing  interest,
     payable  quarterly,  at 10% for the first two  years  only and no  interest
     thereafter,   subordinated  to  all  other   liabilities  of  the  Company,
     convertible into the
     Company's common shares at $4.10 per share                                                   -        200 

   Promissory note bearing interest at 12.24%, principal and interest due in 24 monthly
     payments with final payment due October 1999                                               157        278 

   Promissory note bearing interest at 9.4%, principal and interest due in 5 quarterly
     payments with final payment due February 2000                                              372          - 

   Non-interest bearing Promissory note due July 1998 (see Note 15)                             161        161 

   Promissory notes due November 1997, interest payable in arrears on each principal
     due date accruing at 8.75%                                                                   -         75 

   Other                                                                                         22          - 
                                                                                           --------   -------- 
                                                                                             12,057     13,111 
   Less current portion debt                                                                 (1,821)    (1,384)
                                                                                           --------   -------- 
       Total long-term debt                                                                 $10,236    $11,727 
                                                                                           ========   ======== 
</TABLE>

The  availability  under the revolving  credit note is subject to revisions on a
monthly basis based upon  available  assets (as defined).  The revolving  credit
note is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company.

The equipment  financing agreement and the draw note were obtained from the same
bank as the revolving credit note and the assets  collateralizing each financing
facility are excluded from the collateral  associated with the revolving  credit
note. The equipment  financing  agreement  covers a specific lease agreement and
the draw note covers  certain bank  approved  leases.  The  equipment  financing
agreement  and the draw  note are both  collaterized  by the  respective  assets
underlying each specific  lease.  The leases are initiated by the Company acting
as lessor through the ordinary course of business.

In connection with the issuance of the 10% Convertible  Subordinated  Notes, the
Company issued warrants to purchase 297,500 shares of the Company's common stock
exercisable  for five years  expiring in 1999 at an exercise price of $6.875 per
share.

During fiscal 1998,  holders of the 9% and 10%  Convertible  Subordinated  Notes
converted  $25,000  and  $200,000  face  amount of notes  into  5,000 and 48,780
shares, respectively, of the Company's common stock. During fiscal 1997, holders
of the 9% and 10% Convertible  Subordinated Notes converted $50,000 and $100,000
face  amount of notes  into  10,000  and  24,390  shares,  respectively,  of the
Company's common stock.

In connection  with the  acquisition  of MTC, the Company issued $2.9 million of
its 9%  Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  (the  "MTC  9%  Debentures")  due
September 2000. The MTC 9% Debentures are subordinated to senior indebtedness of
the Company and are  convertible  after  September 15, 1996,  into the Company's
common shares at $6.75 per share.  The MTC 9%  Debentures  may be prepaid by the
Company in whole or in part at face value.  During  fiscal 1998,  $832,806  face
amounts  of these 9%  debentures  were  converted  into  123,377  shares  of the
Company's common stock. During fiscal 1997, $236,952 of these 9% debentures were
converted into 35,104 shares of the Company's common stock.

Also in connection with the acquisition of MTC, the Company assumed $1.8 million
of  6%  Convertible  Subordinated  Secured  Debentures  (the  "Debentures")  due
February 2002. The Debentures are convertible into the Company's common stock at
$8.10 per share.  The  Debentures are subject to redemption at the option of the
Company at face value,  provided,  however, that the Company issues common share
purchase  warrants  to  purchase  the same  number of shares as would  have been
issuable if the  Debentures  were  converted.  During fiscal 1998,  $60,000 face
amount of these  Debentures  were  converted  into 7,407 shares of the Company's
common stock.

In  fiscal  1998,  the  Company  issued  $1,443,750  principal  amount of its 5%
Convertible Subordinated Debentures due September 30, 2002 to Mr. R.C.W. Mauran,
a beneficial  owner of more than 5% of the Company's  common stock,  in exchange
for the  assignment  to the  Company  of  certain  equipment  leases  and  other
consideration.  The debentures are convertible  into common stock of the Company
at $8.25 per share, after December 31, 1998.

Aggregate  maturities  of long-term  debt for each of the next five fiscal years
are as follows (in thousands):

                                1999         $ 1,821
                                2000           7,654
                                2001             276
                                2002           2,306
                                2003               -

<PAGE>

9. Lease Receivables and Obligations

Gross Investment in Leases to Customers

The Company's  equipment lease transactions with its customers primarily involve
the leasing of Computer Output  Microfiche  ("COM")  equipment.  Lease terms are
typically  for  periods of 3 to 5 years.  The Company  typically  leases its COM
equipment on a "price per fiche"  basis,  in which  monthly  rents are driven by
actual  monthly  microfiche  production by the lessee.  Leases  contain  minimum
monthly rents by  establishing  provisions  for minimum  production  volumes per
month.

At September 30, 1998,  the Company has entered into various  sales-type  leases
with its customers. Future minimum lease payments are as follows (in thousands):

                  1999                                              $ 1,611
                  2000                                                1,048
                  2001                                                  604
                  2002                                                  233
                  2003                                                   64
                  Total future minimum lease payments                 3,560
                      Unearned interest                                (452)
                      Reserve for future costs                         (247)
                                                                   ---------
                  Present value of minimum payments                   2,861
                      Equipment residual value                          581
                  Gross Investment in leases                        $ 3,442
                                                                    ========

Capitalized Leases

The Company leases computer  equipment and certain other office  equipment under
leases which are capital in nature.  The aggregate  amount of the lease payments
under capitalized leases for the Company's continuing operations for each of the
five fiscal years ending September 30 is as follows (in thousands):

                  1999                                             $    670 
                  2000                                                  311 
                  2001                                                   37 
                  2002                                                    - 
                  2003                                                    - 
                                                                  ----------
                  Total minimum lease payments                        1,018 
                      Amount representing interest                      (59)
                  Present value of net minimum payments                 959 
                      Less current portion                             (632)
                  Capital lease obligation                         $    327 
                                                                   =========


Operating Leases

The Company has entered into operating leases for office space and manufacturing
facilities.  These leases  provide for minimum  rents.  These  leases  generally
include options to renew for additional periods.  The Company's rent expense for
the years ended  September 30, 1998,  1997 and 1996 was  $760,000,  $828,000 and
$755,000,  respectively.  The  aggregate  amount  of the  lease  payments  under
operating  leases for the Company's  continuing  operations for each of the five
fiscal years ending September 30 is as follows (in thousands):

                  1999                                            $   1,935
                  2000                                                1,701
                  2001                                                1,757
                  2002                                                1,668
                  2003                                                1,656
                  Thereafter                                          3,012
                                                                  ---------
                  Total lease payments                            $  11,729
                                                                  =========

10.  Change in Products

During  fiscal 1996,  the Company  acquired  from IMNET an  exclusive  worldwide
manufacturing  right to certain  microfilm  retrieval  technology,  partially in
exchange for the prepayment of fees for 250 software licenses.  Accordingly, the
Company recorded a prepaid license fee of $1.0 million. As of September 30, 1998

<PAGE>

(as well as at September 30, 1997), the transfer to the Company of the technical
and  manufacturing  know-how for this  technology  has  continued to be delayed.
Despite the ongoing negotiation and cooperation between the parties, the Company
determined  there was a potential  material risk in completing  the transfer and
getting the product to market.  As a result,  the Company  wrote-off the prepaid
license fee of $1.0 million in fiscal 1997 (see Note 15).

Also,  in fiscal  1997,  the  Company  reevaluated  the  development  and timely
offering of its RAPID  (Rapid  Archiving  Peripheral  for Images and  Documents)
product.  Market driven product  enhancements,  and the resulting  technological
setbacks,  delayed the estimated  product offering date at least one year to the
second quarter of fiscal 1998. As a result,  the Company  wrote-off $1.1 million
of capitalized product design costs associated with this product in 1997. During
fiscal 1998,  there has been minimal activity in the sale of this product due to
continued technological setbacks which the Company is trying to resolve.

In fiscal 1996, the Company made the decision to incorporate newer  technologies
into its existing core product  offerings in an attempt to diversify and enhance
its overall product  offerings.  In connection  with this decision,  the Company
signed an agreement to  distribute  Lucent  Technologies,  Inc.  products in the
Chicago, Illinois metropolitan area, and incorporated a wider array of solutions
from existing  vendors in its other markets.  As a result of this decision,  and
the  resulting  changes in its product  lines,  the Company  incurred a one-time
charge of $1.3  million.  The main  components  of this  charge  were a $670,000
write-down  of  inventories  associated  with the  older  technologies  that the
Company no longer actively distributed,  a $311,000 settlement with a terminated
employee, and a $321,000 write-off of associated capitalized expenses, including
such prepaid expenses as maintenance,  warranty and professional fees which were
to be amortized during 1996.

The fiscal 1996 results of  operations  include a charge of $1.5 million for the
write-down of certain software  inventory  resulting from the Company's decision
to discontinue the  distribution of certain imaging  products in favor of others
(see Note 15).

11. Income Taxes

The  Company's  provision  for income  taxes in fiscal 1998 of $350,000  relates
exclusively  to the  operations of KCI. These amounts are included in "Loss from
operations"  for  discontinued  operations  in  the  accompanying  statement  of
operations due to the Company's  decision to discontinue the  telecommunications
segment  (see Note 3). The Company  made no  provision  for income taxes for the
Company's continuing businesses due to losses incurred.

The components of deferred taxes at September 30 are as follows (in thousands):



                                                 1998            1997
                                         ------------     -----------

                                           Tax Effect      Tax Effect

Inventory and other operating reserves     $     352        $     170
Allowance for doubtful accounts                  282               35
Unpaid accruals                                  509              162
Deferred revenue                                 303              503
Other                                            (17)              (6)
Net operating loss carryforward                5,848            2,294
                                           ---------         --------

Total deferred tax asset                       7,277            3,158
Valuation allowance                           (7,277)          (3,158)
                                           ---------         --------
Net deferred tax asset                     $       -         $      -
                                           =========         ========

A valuation allowance was recorded as a reduction to the deferred tax assets due
to the  uncertainty  of the ultimate  realization  of future  benefits from such
deferred taxes.

Net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $17.2 million are available as
of September 30, 1998 to be applied against future taxable income.  In addition,
net  operating  loss   carryforwards  of  approximately   $750,000  acquired  in
connection with the acquisition of MTC are available to reduce recorded goodwill
when utilized. The net operating loss carryforwards expire between 1999 and 2011
and are  subject to certain  annual  limitations  as a result of the  changes in
equity ownership.

<PAGE>

12.  Significant Fourth Quarter Events

Operating  results in the fourth  quarter of fiscal 1998  include a $3.1 million
loss on the impairment of the assets of the document  management  segment   (see
Note 2).

13. Stock Options and Warrants

Amended 1995 Long-Term Incentive Plan

The Company's Amended 1995 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan") is an
equity incentive  program for officers and other employees of the Company or its
subsidiaries  and the  non-employee  members of the Company's Board of Directors
(the  "Board").  1,500,000  shares of common  stock  have  been  authorized  for
issuance over the term of the Incentive  Plan,  but no  participant  may receive
awards  for more than  200,000  shares of common  stock  per  fiscal  year.  The
Incentive  Plan will be  administered  by either  the Board or the  Compensation
Committee of the Board.

Awards under the  Incentive  Plan may, in general,  be made in the form of stock
option grants, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards or performance
shares.  Each stock option  grant will have an exercise  price not less than the
fair  market  value of the option  shares on the grant  date and will  generally
become  exercisable  in three  successive  equal  annual  installments  over the
optionee's period of continued service with the Company.

As of September  30,  1998,  options for  1,300,767  shares of common stock were
outstanding  under the  Incentive  Plan,  of which  382,954  option  shares were
vested.  149,332  shares of common stock had been issued,  and 49,901  shares of
common stock remained  available for future option grants and other awards under
the Incentive  Plan. As of September  30, 1998,  no stock  appreciation  rights,
restricted  share  awards  or  performance  shares  were  outstanding  under the
Incentive Plan.

Employee Stock Option Plan

The  Company's  Employee  Stock  Option  Plan (the  "Option  Plan") is an equity
incentive  program which has been  established for the employees of Micrographic
Technology  Corporation.  40,000 shares of common stock have been authorized for
issuance  over the term of the Option Plan,  but no  participant  may be granted
stock  options for more than 4,000  shares of common  stock.  The Option Plan is
administered by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors.

All options  granted under the Option Plan will have an exercise price per share
equal to the fair market  value of the option  shares on the grant date and will
be designed to qualify as incentive  stock  options  under the federal tax laws.
Each granted option will become exercisable for the option shares in a series of
three  successive  equal  annual  installments  over the  optionee's  period  of
continued service with Micrographic Technology Corporation. The options will not
be  assignable  or  transferable  except  by  will or the  laws  of  inheritance
following  the  optionee's  death,  and in the event the  Company is acquired by
merger or sale of substantially all of its assets,  each outstanding option will
be either be assumed by the successor  corporation  or replaced by the successor
corporation with an option with substantially the same economic value.

As of  September  30,  1998,  options  for  19,358  shares of common  stock were
outstanding  under the Option Plan,  of which all were  vested.  3,208 shares of
common stock had been issued,  and no shares of common stock remained  available
for future options grants under the Option Plan.

Non-Plan Consultant Stock Options

During the year ended  September  30,  1998,  the  Company's  Board of Directors
approved the grant of stock options to an independent  consultant to purchase an
aggregate of 50,000 shares of its common  stock.  These options have an exercise
price of $10.19 and as of September 30, 1998,  none of these options shares were
vested. As a result, the Company has recorded $215,000 in deferred  compensation
which will be  amortized to expense over the  three-year  vesting  period of the
options.  $27,000  has been  amortized  to  expense  for the  fiscal  year ended
September  30,  1998.  These  options  were  not  issued  as  part of any of the
Company's registered Stock Option Plans.

Common Stock Warrants

During fiscal year 1998, the Company issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of
566,250 shares of its common stock in association  with three separate rounds of
financing through the issuance of its convertible preferred stock (see Note 14).
These warrants have a weighted  average  exercise price of $10.42.  In addition,
the Company recognized and honored its commitment to issue a warrant to purchase
10,309 shares of its common stock in  association  with a financing  arrangement
dating back to 1994.  This warrant  contained an exercise price of $4.85 and was
exercised via a cashless exercise provision into 7,182 shares in August 1998.

<PAGE>

The following table summarizes the outstanding  options and warrants to purchase
shares of common stock for the three years ended September 30, 1998:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                       Outstanding
                                       Outstanding Options          Outstanding Warrants          Options and Warrants 
                                    ---------------------------    ------------------------     -----------------------
                                                     Weighted                     Weighted                     Weighted
                                                     Average                      Average                      Average 
                                                    Exercise                     Exercise                     Exercise 
                                         Shares       Price           Shares       Price           Shares       Price  
                                         -------     --------        ---------    --------       ---------     --------
<S>                                      <C>         <C>             <C>          <C>            <C>           <C>     
Outstanding as of September 30, 1995     215,000     $   8.28        1,334,650    $   5.03       1,549,650     $   5.48
                                         -------     --------        ---------    --------       ---------     --------

     Granted                             574,000     $   8.27                -        -            574,000     $   8.27
     Exercised                                 -         -             (12,500)   $   1.75         (12,500)    $   1.75
     Canceled                           (422,833)    $   8.25         (118,750)   $   4.04        (541,583)    $   7.33

Outstanding as of September 30, 1996     366,167     $   8.30        1,203,400    $   5.16       1,569,567     $   5.89
                                         -------     --------        ---------    --------       ---------     --------

     Granted                             400,000     $   5.00                -        -            400,000     $   5.00
     Exercised                                 -         -            (251,000)   $   1.75        (251,000)    $   1.75
     Canceled                           (283,215)    $   4.95                -        -           (283,215)    $   4.95

Outstanding as of September 30, 1997     482,952     $   5.14          952,400    $   6.06       1,435,352     $   5.75
                                         -------     --------          -------    --------       ---------     --------

     Granted                           1,143,533     $   8.07          576,559     $ 10.32       1,720,092     $   8.82
     Exercised                          (152,540)    $   5.47         (683,941)   $   5.81        (836,481)    $   5.75
     Canceled                           (103,820)    $   6.76          (12,619)   $   2.52        (116,439)    $   6.30

Outstanding as of September 30, 1998   1,370,125     $   7.42          832,399    $   9.27       2,202,524     $   8.12
                                       ---------     --------          -------    --------       ---------     --------
</TABLE>

On November 15, 1996, the  Compensation/Stock  Option Committee approved a stock
option  repricing   program  to  provide  employee  option  holders   additional
opportunity  and incentive to achieve  business  plan goals.  A total of 297,000
options held by employees on that date were  repriced to $4.94 per share,  which
was the market price on such date.  All other terms of the options  remained the
same and, accordingly, there was no change to the vesting or term of any option.

The Board of Directors  took similar  action earlier in the year on February 28,
1996,  when it elected to reduce the exercise  price on 117,000  options held by
employees  to $8.25 per share,  the market  price on the day the board took such
action. All other terms of the options remained the same and, accordingly, there
was no change to the vesting or term of any option.

The following table summarizes  information  regarding stock options outstanding
at September 30, 1998:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         Outstanding Options                      Vested Options
                              -------------------------------------------    ------------------------
                                            Weighted Average   Weighted                    Weighted
                                                Remaining      Average                     Average 
                                            Contractual Life   Exercise                   Exercise 
    Range of Exercise Prices      Shares         (Years)         Price         Shares       Price  
                                ---------          ----        --------        -------    -------- 
<S>                               <C>              <C>         <C>             <C>        <C>     
    $    4.94  -  $    6.88       874,625          8.78        $   6.17        392,312    $   5.94
    $    7.19  -  $    9.75       237,800          9.52        $   8.67              -           -
    $   10.00  -  $   13.94       257,700          9.65        $  10.68         10,000    $  13.94
                                ---------                                      -------

    $    4.94  -  $   13.94     1,370,125          9.07        $   7.45        402,312    $   6.14
                                ---------          ----        --------        -------    --------
</TABLE>

During  fiscal 1997,  the Company was  required to adopt  Statement of Financial
Standards No. 123,  Accounting for  Stock-Based  Compensation  (FAS 123),  which
encourages  entities to adopt a fair value based method of accounting  for stock
based  compensation  plans in place of the  provisions of Accounting  Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25), for all
arrangements  under  which  employees  receive  shares of stock or other  equity
instruments of the employer.

As allowed by FAS 123, the Company will continue to apply the  provisions of APB
25 in accounting for its stock based  employee  compensation  arrangements,  and
will  disclose  the pro  forma net loss and loss per  share  information  in its
footnotes as if the fair value method suggested in FAS 123 had been applied.

Had  compensation  cost for the Company's LTIP been determined based on the fair
value at grant date for awards in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996 consistent with the
provisions of FAS 123, the Company's net loss and loss per share would have been
increased to the pro forma amounts  indicated  below (in  thousands,  except per
share data):

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                             1998            1997            1996 
                                                         --------        --------        ---------
<S>                                                      <C>              <C>             <C>     
  Net loss applicable to common shares, as reported      $(17,345)        $(2,631)        $(6,097)
  Net loss applicable to common shares, pro forma         (18,889)         (3,207)         (6,348)
  Basic and diluted loss per common share, as reported   $  (2.35)   $   (.40)           $  (1.05)
  Basic and diluted loss per common share, pro forma        (2.56)          (.48)           (1.09)
</TABLE>

The fair value of each  stock  option  grant on the date of grant was  estimated
using  the  Black-Scholes  option  pricing  model  with  the  following  average
assumptions:

                                                      Year Ended September 30,
                                                      1998             1997 
                                                    -------          -------
              Volatility                              63%              58%
              Risk-free interest rate                5.28%            6.10%
              Dividend yield                           -                -
              Expected lives                           4                4
              Weighted average fair value            $4.62            $4.26

14. Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock

Outstanding  redeemable  convertible  preferred  stock  at  September  30,  1998
consists of the following (in thousands, except share data):

                          Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock
                        30,000 shares authorized, $0.10 par value
                        -----------------------------------------
                                  Shares Issued and    Proceeds Net of
                      Series         Outstanding       Issuance Costs

                        A               3,101             $    4,600
                        B              10,125                  9,500
                        C               7,531                  7,108
                        D                   -                      -
                                   ----------         --------------

                                       20,757              $  21,208
                                       ======              =========

Issuance

Since  December  31,  1997,  the  Company  has  issued  three  series  of its 5%
convertible  preferred stock  denominated  Series A Convertible  Preferred Stock
(the "Series A Preferred  Stock"),  Series B  Convertible  Preferred  Stock (the
"Series B  Preferred  Stock")  and  Series C  Convertible  Preferred  Stock (the
"Series C  Preferred  Stock").  In  addition,  the  Company has agreed to issue,
pursuant to a mutually binding stock purchase agreement,  a fourth series of its
5% convertible  preferred stock denominated Series D Convertible Preferred Stock
(the "Series D Preferred Stock") with the Series A Preferred Stock, the Series B
Preferred Stock and the Series C Preferred  Stock, the ("Preferred  Stock").  In
connection  with the  issuance of the 5% Preferred  Stock,  the Company has also
issued  (or,  in the case of the  Series D  Preferred  Stock,  agreed  to issue)
warrants to purchase its common stock (the "Preferred Warrants").

Each series of the Preferred Stock has similar rights and  privileges,  and each
share of the  Preferred  Stock  has a par  value of $0.10  and a face  amount of
$1,000.  The Preferred Stock is convertible  into the number of shares of common
stock  determined  by  dividing  the face  amount of the  Preferred  Stock being
converted by the applicable conversion price.

On December 31, 1997, the Company  issued to RGC  International  Investors,  LDC
("RGC"),  5,000 shares of its Series A Preferred  Stock and warrants to purchase
150,000  shares of common  stock  (the  "Series A  Warrants")  for an  aggregate
purchase price of $5,000,000.  $435,000 of the purchase price has been allocated
to the  value of the  Series A  Warrants.  The sale was  arranged  by  Shoreline
Pacific  Institutional  Finance,  the  Institutional  Division of Financial West
Group  ("SPIF"),  which  received a fee of  $250,000  plus  warrants to purchase
20,000 shares of common  stock,  which are  exercisable  at $6.625 and expire on
December 31, 2000.

On May 28,  1998,  the Company  issued to RGC and  Shoreline  Associates  I, LLC
("Shoreline"),  9,000 and 1,000 shares, respectively,  of its Series B Preferred
Stock and  warrants to  purchase  180,000 and 20,000  shares,  respectively,  of
common  stock (the  "Series B  Warrants")  for an  aggregate  purchase  price of
$10,000,000.  $900,000 of the purchase  price has been allocated to the value of
the Series B Warrants.  The sale was arranged by SPIF,  which  received a fee of
$500,000  plus warrants to purchase  50,000  shares of common  stock,  which are
exercisable at $11.00 and expire on May 28, 2002.

<PAGE>


On August  31,  1998,  the  Company  issued to RGC 7,500  shares of its Series C
Preferred  Stock and  warrants to purchase  93,750  shares of common  stock (the
"Series C Warrants") for an aggregate purchase price of $7,500,000.  $277,000 of
the purchase price has been allocated to the value of the Series C Warrants. The
sale was arranged by SPIF,  which  received a fee of $375,000  plus  warrants to
purchase  26,250  shares of common  stock,  which are  exercisable  at $7.50 and
expire on August 31, 2002.

Also on August 31, 1998,  the Company  entered into a stock  purchase  agreement
whereby the Company  agreed,  subject to certain  conditions,  including  common
stock  shareholder  approval,  to  issue to RGC  7,500  shares  of its  Series D
Preferred  Stock and  warrants to purchase  93,750  shares of common  stock (the
"Series D  Warrants")  for an  aggregate  purchase  price of  $7,500,000.  As of
September 30, 1998, the Company has not issued the Series D Preferred  Stock and
the Series D Warrants. This stock purchase agreement was arranged by SPIF, which
received  warrants  to  purchase  26,250  shares  of  common  stock,  which  are
exercisable  at $7.50 and  expire on August  31,  2002.  The  exercise  of these
warrants is  contingent  upon the issuance of the Series D Preferred  Stock,  at
which time SPIF will receive an  additional  fee of $375,000.  If the closing of
the Series D Preferred Stock has not occurred by September 1, 1999, the warrants
issued in  conjunction  with the Series D Preferred  Stock  shall  automatically
expire.

Use of Proceeds

Proceeds  from the sale of the Preferred  Stock and the  Preferred  Warrants are
being used to fund the expenditures  incurred in the continuing expansion of the
Company's  Internet  segment,  particularly  the ISP  Channel  service,  and for
general corporate  purposes.  Such expenditures  include procuring the equipment
necessary to deliver  high-speed,  cable based Internet services to subscribers,
hiring  additional  personnel and expanding its  associated  sales and marketing
efforts.

Dividends

The Holders of the Preferred  Stock are entitled to receive  dividends at a rate
of 5% per  annum,  payable  quarterly,  at the  Company's  option,  in  cash  or
additional shares of the applicable series of Preferred Stock.  Unpaid dividends
are cumulative.  Any accrued and unpaid  dividends are payable only in the event
of a  liquidation,  dissolution or winding up of the Company.  In addition,  the
Holders of the Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to receive dividends of 10%
per annum in the event they are unable to convert their Series B Preferred Stock
because such conversions would result in greater than 19.99% of the common stock
being issued upon  conversion  of the Series B, unless  stockholder  approval is
obtained authorizing such conversions.

As of September  30, 1998,  the Company had issued an  additional  101 shares of
Series A Preferred  Stock,  125 shares of Series B Preferred Stock and 31 shares
of Series C Preferred Stock as dividends.

Conversion Prices

The stated  value of each series of  outstanding  preferred  stock is $1,000 per
share.  The actual number of shares of common stock issuable upon  conversion of
each series of Preferred Stock will be determined by the following formula:

        (The aggregate stated value of the shares of preferred stock thus
                      being converted at $1,000 per share)
                                   divided by
              (The applicable conversion price of the series of the
                        preferred stock being converted).

The  conversion  price of the Series A Preferred  Stock is equal to the lower of
$8.28 per share and the lowest  consecutive two day average closing price of the
common  stock  during  the 20 day  trading  period  immediately  prior  to  such
conversion.

Prior to February 28, 1999, the conversion price of the Series B Preferred Stock
is equal to $13.20 per share.  Thereafter,  the conversion price of the Series B
Preferred  Stock is equal to the lower of $13.20 per share and the  lowest  five
day average  closing price of the common stock during the 20 day trading  period
immediately prior to such conversion.

Prior to May 31, 1999, the conversion  price of the Series C Preferred  Stock is
equal to $9.00 per  share.  Thereafter,  the  conversion  price of the  Series C
Preferred Stock is equal to the lower of $9.00 per share and the lowest five day
average  closing  price of the common  stock  during the 30-day  trading  period
immediately prior to such conversion.

The conversion  price of the Series D Preferred  Stock (the "Series D Conversion
Price") will initially be a price equal to 120% of the average closing bid price
of the common  stock on the five days  prior to the date the Series D  Preferred
Stock is issued (the  "Initial  Series D Conversion  Price").  On the nine month
anniversary of such issuance, the Series D Conversion Price will be the lower of
the Initial Series D Conversion Price and a five day average market price within
the 30-day trading period immediately prior to conversion, subject to adjustment
upon certain conditions.

<PAGE>

Conversion

A holder of the Series A Preferred  Stock or the Series B Preferred Stock cannot
convert  its Series A Preferred  Stock or Series B Preferred  Stock in the event
such conversion would result in its  beneficially  owning more than 4.99% of the
Company's common stock,  (not including shares underlying the Series A Preferred
Stock or the Series A Warrants for the Series A Preferred Stock conversions,  or
the Series B Preferred Stock or the Series B Warrants for the Series B Preferred
Stock conversions), but they may waive this prohibition by providing the Company
a notice of  election  to  convert  at least 61 days  prior to such  conversion.
Similarly,  a holder of the Series C Preferred Stock or Series D Preferred Stock
cannot convert its Series C Preferred  Stock or Series D Preferred  Stock in the
event such conversion would result in beneficially owning more than 4.99% of the
Company's common stock (not including  shares  underlying the Series C Preferred
Stock or the Series C Warrants for the Series C Preferred  stock  conversion  or
the shares  underlying the Series D Preferred Stock or the Series D Warrants for
the Series D Preferred stock conversions).  Notwithstanding this limitation, the
holders of the  Preferred  Stock  cannot  convert into an aggregate of more than
19.99% of the  Company's  common  stock  without the  approval of the  Company's
common  shareholders or the American Stock Exchange.  In addition,  the Series B
Preferred  Stock,  Series C Preferred  Stock and Series D  Preferred  Stock each
cannot convert into more than 2,000,000  shares of common stock. As of September
30,  1998,  assuming  that the  holders of Series A  Preferred  Stock,  Series B
Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock attempt to convert into the maximum
number of shares of common stock  available,  the total cash  payments  would be
$11,699,171 after adjustment for the conversion of the remaining 3,101 shares of
the Company's outstanding Series A Preferred Stock subsequent to year end.

The rules of the  American  Stock  Exchange  (the  "AMEX")  require us to obtain
common  stock  shareholder  or AMEX  approval  to  issue  more  than  20% of the
Company's   outstanding  common  stock.  Shares  of  common  stock  issued  upon
conversion of the Preferred  Stock or exercise of the Preferred  Warrants  would
count toward this 20%. As such, the AMEX rule operates as a further  restriction
on the ability of the holders of the Preferred Stock and the Preferred  Warrants
to convert their preferred stock or exercise their warrants.

During  April 1998,  the Company  issued a combined  total of 299,946  shares of
common  stock,  pursuant  to the  conversion  of 2,000  shares  of the  Series A
Preferred Stock. The Series A Preferred Stock, including accrued dividends,  was
converted into common shares at the conversion price of $6.69 per share.

Subsequent to the year ended  September 30, 1998,  the Company issued a combined
total of 413,018  shares of common  stock,  pursuant  to the  conversion  of the
remaining 3,101 shares of the Company's  outstanding  Series A Preferred  Stock.
The Series A Preferred Stock,  including accrued  dividends,  was converted into
common shares at the conversion price of $7.56 per share.

Voting Rights

Holders of the  Preferred  Stock do not have voting  rights,  except for certain
protective  provisions  relating  to  changes  in the  rights of  holders of the
Preferred Stock or otherwise  required by law. Consent of a majority in interest
of each effected series of the Preferred Stock is required prior to (i) changing
the rights or privileges  of such series;  (ii) creating any new class or series
of stock  with  preferences  above or on par with  those of such  series;  (iii)
increasing the authorized number of such series; (iv) any act which would result
in a negative tax  consequence to the holders of such series pursuant to Section
305 of the Internal Revenue Code.

Priority

Each  series of the  Preferred  Stock is pari passu  with each  other  series of
Preferred  Stock,  and  ranks  senior  to  the  common  stock  as to  dividends,
distributions  and  distribution  of assets  upon  liquidation,  dissolution  or
winding up of the Company.

Liquidation

In the event of any  liquidation,  dissolution  or  winding  up of the  Company,
holders of the Preferred  Stock will be entitled to be paid out of the assets of
the Company legally  available for distribution to its  stockholders,  an amount
equal to the liquidation  value per share of the Preferred Stock, but only after
and subject to the payment in full of all amounts  required to be distributed to
the holders of any other  capital stock of the Company  ranking in  liquidations
senior to such  Preferred  Stock,  but  before any  payment  will be made to the
holders of the common stock.  Certain mergers or  consolidations  of the Company
into or with another  corporation or the sale of all or substantially all of the
assets  of the  Company  may  be  deemed  to be a  liquidation  of  the  Company
triggering the rights of the holders of the Preferred Stock.

Redemption

Each  series of the  Preferred  Stock is  subject  to  redemption  upon  certain
circumstances,  including  the  Company's  (i) failure to convert the  Preferred
Stock when required and in the proper manner, (ii) lapse of effectiveness of the
registration statement covering the common stock underlying the Preferred Stock,
and (iii)  suspension  of the common  stock from  trading on the AMEX,  New York
Stock Exchange or NASDAQ.  In addition,  the Series B Preferred Stock is subject
to  redemption  in the  event  the  Company  breaches  the  registration  rights
agreement  pursuant to which the common stock  underlying the Series B Preferred

<PAGE>

Stock was  registered  with the  Commission;  and the Series C (and  Series D if
issued) is subject to  redemption  in the event the Company  breaches  the stock
purchase  agreement pursuant to which the Series C Preferred Stock was issued or
the registration  rights agreement pursuant to which the common stock underlying
the Series C Preferred Stock was registered with the Commission.

The  Company  will have the right to redeem the Series A  Preferred  Stock on or
after  December  31,  1998 at a price  equal to the  greater of 130% of its face
value or the market  price  multiplied  by the number of shares of common  stock
into which the Convertible Preferred can be converted. The Company will have the
right to redeem the Series B Preferred  Stock on or after November 28, 1999 at a
price  equal to the  greater  of 120% of its  face  value  or the  market  price
multiplied  by the number of shares of common  stock into which the  Convertible
Preferred can be converted. The Company will have the right to redeem the Series
C Preferred Stock on or after the earlier of (i) an underwritten public offering
or a Rule 144A offering in the amount of at least $10,000,000,  or (ii) February
29, 2000, at a price equal to 110% of its face value if such  redemption is made
prior to September 1, 1999 and 120% of the face value  thereafter.  Once issued,
the  Company  will have the right to redeem the Series D  Preferred  Stock on or
after the earlier of (i) an underwritten public offering or a Rule 144A offering
in the amount of at least $10,000,000, or (ii) the eighteen-month anniversary of
the date of its  issuance  at a price  equal  to 110% of its face  value if such
redemption  is made in the first 12 months that the Series D Preferred  Stock is
outstanding and 120% of the face value thereafter.

In the event of a change in control of the  Company,  including  consolidations,
mergers, the sale of substantially all of the Company's assets, and transactions
in which 50% or more of the voting  power of the Company is disposed  of, the 5%
Preferred Stock is subject to redemption in cash.

Maturity

The  Company,  in its sole  discretion,  must  either  redeem or convert  the 5%
Preferred  Stock on the three year  anniversaries  of  issuance  (the  "Maturity
Date").  The Company's ability to convert the 5% Preferred Stock on the Maturity
Date is  subject  to (i)  shareholder  approval  in the  event  such  conversion
(aggregated  with all  previous  conversions  of the 5%  Preferred  Stock) would
result in the issuance of more than 19.99% of the outstanding common stock as of
December  31,  1997 and (ii) the  shares  of  common  stock  issuable  upon such
conversion  being  authorized,  registered and eligible for trading over AMEX or
NASDAQ. In the event shareholder  approval is not obtained,  or the common stock
issuable upon such  conversion is not  authorized,  registered  and eligible for
trading  over the AMEX or NASDAQ,  then the Company must redeem the 5% Preferred
Stock in cash.  The  Maturity  Date of the Series B  Preferred  Stock is May 29,
2001. The Maturity Date of the Series C Preferred Stock is August 31, 2001.

The Preferred Warrants to Purchase Common Stock

The Preferred Warrants have a term of four years, and are currently exercisable.
The Preferred  Warrants  contain  certain  anti-dilution  provisions  and permit
cashless  exercise.  The Company can call the Series B Warrants and the Series C
Warrants any time after the first year  anniversary of their issuance,  but only
in the event the market  price of the common stock over the twenty days prior to
such call is 150% of the exercise price of the warrants being called. The Series
A Warrants have an exercise  price of $7.95 per share and expire on December 31,
2001.  The  Series B  Warrants  have an  exercise  price of $13.75 per share and
expire on May 28, 2002.  The Series C Warrants have an exercise  price of $9.375
per share and  expire on August 31,  2002.  The  exercise  price of the Series D
Warrants  will be 125% of the market  price of the  common  stock on the date of
issuance, and will expire four years after such issuance.

15. Related Party Transactions

As of  September  30,  1994,  the Company  was owed $4.2  million  plus  accrued
interest by Ozite Corporation  (Ozite). A Director of the Company and the former
Chairman of the Board held substantial  interests in Ozite. Due to uncertainties
about  collecting these funds,  this  receivable,  which dates back to 1988, was
written off and charged  against  earnings  during fiscal 1991,.  Accordingly no
amount  related to this  receivable  is recorded on the  Company's  consolidated
financial statements.  On July 26, 1995, Ozite shareholders approved a merger of
Ozite  with  Pure Tech with Pure  Tech  being the  surviving  corporation.  As a
condition of the merger, Ozite was required to secure a general release from the
Company and to surrender  certain  securities in satisfaction of the amount owed
to the Company.  As a result,  the Company  received 311,000 shares of Pure Tech
common stock,  267,000 shares of Artra Group  Incorporated  (ARTRA) common stock
and 932 shares of Artra  Preferred  Stock.  Subsequently,  the Company  sold all
311,025 shares of Pure Tech for net proceeds of $1.0 million, which was recorded
as a capital  contribution during fiscal 1995. During fiscal 1996, the remaining
securities  were sold for net  proceeds  of  $815,000,  which was  recorded as a
capital contribution.

During fiscal 1997, CDI sold its operations that support its Fujitsu maintenance
base  in the  Chicago  metropolitan  area  to a new  company  formed  by John I.
Jellinek, the Company's former president,  chief executive officer, and director

<PAGE>

and Philip Kenny, a former SoftNet  director.  The buyer acquired certain assets
in  exchange  for a  $209,000  promissory  note and the  assumption  of  current
liabilities of  approximately  $750,000.  In addition,  at the closing the buyer
paid off  $438,000 of Company  bank debt and entered  into a sub-lease  of CDI's
facility in Buffalo  Grove,  Illinois.  At the  closing,  the buyer  merged with
Telcom  Midwest,   LLC.,  and  the  two  former  directors  and  the  other  two
shareholders of the merged company personally guaranteed obligations arising out
of the promissory note, the sub-lease  arrangement and the assumption of certain
liabilities.  The personal  guarantees of the promissory  note are several.  The
personal  guarantees of the sub-lease are limited to $400,000 and are on a joint
and several basis. The personal guarantees of assumed liabilities are on a joint
and several basis but are limited to the two former  directors.  Concurrent with
this transaction, Messrs. Jellinek and Kenny resigned from the Company's board.

In June 1996, the Company acquired the exclusive worldwide  manufacturing rights
to IMNET's MegaSAR  Microfilm  Jukebox and completed and amended its obligations
under a previous  agreement.  The Company issued a $2.9 million note for prepaid
license fees,  software inventory,  the manufacturing  rights, and certain other
payables.  Approximately  $2.5  million  was paid on this note during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1996.  Subsequently,  in fiscal 1997, the outstanding $410,000
promissory  note was further  reduced by $249,000,  and a new promissory note in
the face amount of $161,000 was executed.

In July 1997, due to a delay in the transfer to the Company of the technical and
manufacturing  know-how for the MegaSAR  product,  the Company and IMNET further
amended the June 1996  Agreement.  In an attempt to  facilitate  the  technology
transfer,  the  Company  accepted  an order  from IMNET for the first 14 MegaSAR
units to be  manufactured  by the  Company.  A portion of the  payment for these
initial units would be applied  against the  outstanding  promissory  note.  The
transfer  of the  technology  and the parts  needed for  production  was to have
occurred no later than September 1, 1997.

As of September  30,  1997,  the  transfer to the Company of the  technical  and
manufacturing  know-how for this product  offering has  continued to be delayed.
Despite the ongoing  negotiation  and cooperation  between the two parties,  the
Company  determined  there  was a  potential  material  risk in  completing  the
technology  transfer and getting the product to market.  As a result,  in fiscal
1997,  the Company  recorded a one-time  charge of $1.0 million to write-off the
associated prepaid licenses.  The Company is currently negotiating with IMNET to
either  complete the transfer or seek an  alternative  solution.  In association
with these ongoing  negotiations,  the maturity  date of the Company's  $161,000
promissory note has been indefinitely extended.

During  fiscal  1996,  the  Company   decided  to  discontinue   its  plans  for
distributing the IMNET microfilm retrieval software in favor of another software
developer's product. As a result, the Company recorded a one-time charge of $1.5
million to  write-off  software  inventory  which is included  under the caption
costs  associated  with  change in product  lines and other in the  accompanying
consolidate statements of operations.

During  fiscal  1996,  the  Company  sold its entire  holdings  in IMNET for net
proceeds of $7.7 million.  Accordingly,  the Company  recorded a gain on sale of
the securities of $5.7 million.

In  fiscal  1998,  the  Company  issued  $1,443,750  principal  amount of its 5%
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  due  September  30,  2002 to Mr. R. C. W.
Mauran,  a beneficial  owner of more than 5% of the Company's  common stock,  in
exchange for the assignment to the Company of certain equipment leases and other
consideration.  The debentures are convertible into common stock of the Company,
at $8.25 per share, after December 31, 1998.

16. Supplemental Cash Flow Information
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                1998         1997         1996
                                                                             -------      -------      -------
                                                                                       (in thousands)
<S>                                                                           <C>          <C>          <C>   
       Cash paid during the year for:
          Interest                                                            $1,330       $1,220       $1,730
       Non-cash investing and financing activities:
          Common stock issued for acquisitions                                     -            -        1,022
          Common stock issued for the conversion of subordinated notes         1,118          387        4,077
          Common stock issued for the conversion of preferred stock            1,666            -            -
          Value assigned to common warrants issued upon the issuance
              of preferred stock                                               1,612
          Convertible debt issued for acquisition of equipment leases          1,444            -            -
          Preferred dividends paid with the issuance of -
              Additional preferred stock                                         257            -            -
              Common stock                                                         6            -            -
          Equipment acquired by capital lease                                    965           83           89
          Note received in sale of a portion of CDI's operations                   -          209            -
          Common stock issued to pay acquisition costs                             -           44            -

</TABLE>


17. Segment Information

The  Company  operates   principally  in  three  industry   segments:   document
management,  telecommunications and Internet services. The Company's acquisition
of MTC  in  September,  1995,  significantly  broadened  its  operations  in the
document management industry.  Prior to the acquisition,  the Company's document
management  operations  were not  material.  Although  the Company  acquired ISP
Channel, an Internet service provider,  in June of 1996, its revenue and results
of operations in fiscal 1996 were immaterial.  In July 1998, the Company decided
to  discontinue  its  telecommunications  operations  and  therefore,  the  data
relating to this segment is included as  discontinued.  Note 3 provides  segment
data for telecommunications.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>



                                                                   As of and for the Years Ended September 30,
                                                                         1998            1997           1996
                                                                   ----------      ----------     ----------
                                                                                (In thousands)      
<S>                                                                <C>             <C>            <C>       
     Net Sales
       Document Management                                         $   13,042      $   20,330     $   19,417
       Internet Services                                                1,018             988            167
                                                                   ----------      ----------     ----------
                                                                   $   14,060      $   21,318     $   19,584
                                                                   ==========      ==========     ==========

     Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
       Document Management                                         $   (5,653) (a) $      572 (b) $     (227)(c)
       Internet Services                                               (8,272)         (1,152)             -
       Other                                                           (3,004)         (2,304)         2,003 (d)
                                                                   ----------      ----------     ----------
                                                                   $  (16,929)     $   (2,884)    $    1,776
                                                                   ==========      ==========     ==========

     Identifiable Assets
       Document Management                                         $   10,070      $   15,049     $   14,426
       Discontinued Business                                            6,129           7,491          8,373
       Internet Services                                                7,443           1,364              -
       Corporate                                                       13,167             473          1,467
       Other                                                                -               -          1,320
                                                                   ----------      ----------     ----------
                                                                   $   36,809      $   24,377     $   25,586
                                                                   ==========      ==========     ==========

     Depreciation and Amortization Expense
       Document Management                                         $    1,148      $    1,263     $      958
       Internet Services                                                  921             458              -
       Corporate                                                           84              76            306
       Other                                                                -               1            110
                                                                   ----------      ----------     ----------
                                                                   $    2,153      $    1,798     $    1,374
                                                                   ==========      ==========     ==========

     Capital Expenditures
       Document Management                                         $      647      $      137     $      614
       Internet Services                                                5,014             361              -
       Corporate                                                            2              11            100
       Other                                                                -               1             18
                                                                   ----------      ----------     ----------
                                                                   $    5,663      $      510     $      732
                                                                   ==========      ==========     ==========
<FN>

(a)  Includes $3.1 million charge for impairment of assets
(b)  Includes $2.1 million  charge for costs  associated  with change in product
     line and other
(c)  Includes $1.5 million charge for costs associated with change in product
(d)  Includes $5.7 million gain on sale of available-for-sale securities
</FN>
</TABLE>


18.     Subsequent Events

On November 5, 1998, the Company entered into a letter of intent to sell MTC for
$5.125  million and on November 9, 1998,  the Company  entered  into a letter of
intent to sell KCI for $6.6  million.  In both cases,  deposits of $100,000 were
paid to the  Company on  execution  of the letters of intent and, in the case of
the sale of MTC, such deposit is  non-refundable.  The purchase price for MTC is
anticipated  to  be  $5.125  million  (including  the  $100,000   non-refundable
deposit).  The  balance  of $5.025  million  will be paid at  closing in readily
available  funds.  The purchase  price for KCI is  anticipated  to be $6 million
(including  the  $100,000  deposit)  and the  issuance  to the Company of 60,000
shares of common  stock of the  purchaser,  Convergent  Communications,  Inc. At
closing,  the Company expects to receive $3.4 million in readily available funds
and two 12-month 8% notes for an aggregate amount of $2.5 million.

In aggregate,  the sale of both MTC and KCI  represents a substantial  change in
the business of the Company and, as such, requires shareholder  approval.  While
KCI has been treated as a discontinued  operation since July 27, 1998, and while
management  of the Company  intends to dispose of MTC, the Company has continued
to treat MTC as a continuing  business pending such shareholder  approval of its
sale.

On November 22, 1998, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire
all of the  outstanding  capital stock of Intelligent  Communications,  Inc. The
transaction will close upon Federal  Communications  Commission  approval of the
transfer of Intellicom's  licenses to the Company.  Such approval is expected to
occur in the second quarter of fiscal 1999. The agreed  purchase price comprises
(i) a cash component of $500,000  payable at closing,  (ii) a promissory note in
the amount of $1 million due one year after  closing  (and payable in cash or in
the  Company's  common stock at the option of the  sellers),  (iii) a promissory
note in the amount of $2 million due two years  after  closing  (and  payable in
cash or in the Company's  common stock at the option of the  Company),  (iv) the
issuance of 500,000  shares of the Company's  common stock  (adjustable  upwards
after one year in certain  circumstances),  and (v) a demonstration  bonus of $1
million payable on the first anniversary of the closing,  if certain  milestones
are met, in cash or shares of the  Company's  common  stock at the option of the
Company.

During  November  1998, the Company issued a combined total of 413,018 shares of
common stock,  pursuant to the  conversion of the remaining  3,101 shares of the
Company's  outstanding  Series A Preferred  Stock. The Series A Preferred Stock,
including accrued dividends,  was converted into common shares at the conversion
price of $7.56 per share.

During the quarter ended December 31, 1998,  the Company  declared a dividend on
both its  outstanding  Series B  Preferred  Stock and its  outstanding  Series C
Preferred Stock, payable on December 31, 1998 to the respective  stockholders of
record at the close of business on December 28, 1998. For the Series B Preferred
Stock,  these  dividends,  payable at a rate of 5%,  were paid at the  Company's
option  in the  form of  126.56  additional  shares  of the  Company's  Series B
Preferred Stock. For the Series C Preferred Stock, these dividends, payable at a
rate of 5%, were paid at the  Company's  option in the form of 94.14  additional
shares of the Company's Series C Preferred Stock.

On  January  12,  1999,  the  Company  executed  an  agreement  with a group  of
institutional  investors  whereby the Company  issued $12 million in convertible
subordinated  loan notes.  These notes bear an interest  rate of 9% per year and
mature in 2001.  In  connection  with these notes,  the Company  issued to these
investors  an  aggregate  of 300,000  warrants.  These  warrants,  which have an
exercise price of $17 per warrant, expire in 2003.


<PAGE>


Item  9.  Changes  In and  Disagreements  With  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

Not applicable.

                                    PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of Registrant

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of Registrant

The  information  required  by this  Item is set  forth  in  registrant's  Proxy
Statement  for the 1999  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  under  the  captions
"Election of Directors", "Executive Officers" and "Compliance with Section 16(a)
of the  Exchange  Act",  which  information  is  hereby  incorporated  herein by
reference.


Item 11.  Executive Compensation

The  information  required  by this  Item is set  forth  in  registrant's  Proxy
Statement  for the 1999  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  under  the  captions
"Executive  Compensation" and "Board of Directors",  which information is hereby
incorporated herein by reference.


Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The  information  required  by this  Item is set  forth  in  registrant's  Proxy
Statement  for the  1999  Annual  Meeting  of  Shareholders  under  the  caption
"Beneficial  Security  Ownership of Management and Certain  Beneficial  Owners",
which information is hereby incorporated herein by reference.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The  information  required  by this  Item is set  forth  in  registrant's  Proxy
Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders under the caption "Certain
Relationships   and  Related   Transactions",   which   information   is  hereby
incorporated herein by reference.


<PAGE>


                                     PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)      Financial Statements and Exhibits:

         1.       Consolidated Financial Statements

                    See Index to Consolidated  Financial  Statements included in
                    this Form 10-K on page __.

         2.       Financial Statement Schedules

                    Included in Part IV of this Form 10-K are the following:

                    Report of  Independent  Accountants  on Financial  Statement
                    Schedule

                    Financial  Statement  Schedule  for the  Three  Years  Ended
                    September 30, 1998

                            Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

         3.       Exhibits

                    See Index to Exhibits included on this Form 10-K on page   .

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K:

         On July 28,  1998,  the  Company  filed a Form 8-K  reporting  both the
         adoption  of a Cable  Affiliates  Incentive  Program  and the  Board of
         Director's  decision  to account for the  Company's  Telecommunications
         Division as a discontinued operation.

         On  September  14, 1998,  the Company  filed a Form 8-K  reporting  the
         designation  and  issuance  of 7,500  shares  of  Series C  Convertible
         Preferred  Stock  and the  designation  of  7,500  shares  of  Series D
         Convertible Preferred Stock.









<PAGE>


                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.

/s/ Douglas S. Sinclair
- -----------------------
Douglas S. Sinclair
Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                                Title                            Date


/s/ Ronald I. Simon
- -------------------------
Ronald I. Simon                Chairman of the Board of      January 13, 1999
                                      Directors

/s/ Lawrence B. Brilliant
- -------------------------
Dr. Lawrence B. Brilliant         Vice Chairman of the       January 13, 1999
                                   Board of Directors
                                     President, and
                                Chief Executive Officer

/s/ Garrett J. Girvan
- -------------------------
Garrett J. Girvan               Chief Operating Officer      January 13, 1999


/s/ Ian B. Aaron
- -------------------------
Ian B. Aaron                           Director              January 13, 1999


/s/ Edward A. Bennett
- -------------------------
Edward A. Bennett                      Director              January 13, 1999


/s/ Sean P. Doherty
- -------------------------
Sean P. Doherty                        Director              January 13, 1999


/s/ John G. Hamm
- -------------------------
John G. Hamm                           Director              January 13, 1999


/s/ Robert C. Harris, Jr.
- -------------------------
Robert C. Harris, Jr.                  Director              January 13, 1999





<PAGE>


                                                                     Schedule II


                                         Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                                                  (In thousands)


                                    Beginning                           Ending
                                     Balance    Expensed    Deductions  Balance
                                    ---------   --------    ----------  -------
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
 (for continuing operations):

Fiscal Year 1998                      $   320    $   680       $   279   $  721

Fiscal Year 1997                          164        174            18      320

Fiscal Year 1996                          156        101            93      164

<PAGE>

INDEX TO EXHIBITS


EXHIBIT 3   Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws

            3.1    Restated  Certificate  of  Incorporation  of the  Registrant,
                   filed as an exhibit to the Company's  Registration  Statement
                   on Form S-3 (No. 333-65593).

            3.2    By-Laws  of the  Company  included  in  Exhibit  3(b)  to the
                   Company's  Annual  Report on Form  10-KSB for the fiscal year
                   ended September 30, 1993.

EXHIBIT 4   Instruments  Defining  the Rights of  Security   Holders   including
            Indentures

            4.1    Article Third of the  Registrant's  Restated  Certificate  of
                   Incorporation,  filed as exhibit 3.1 to this Annual Report on
                   Form 10-K.

            4.2    Form of  Indenture  between  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc. and U.S.
                   Trust Company of  California,  as Trustee,  including Form of
                   Note,   relating  to  the  9%  Debentures.   Incorporated  by
                   reference  to  Exhibit  4.2  to  the  Company's  Registration
                   Statement on Form S-4, as amended, Registration No. 33-95542.

EXHIBIT 10  Material Contracts

            10.1   Letter  confirming  employment of Dr.  Lawrence B. Brilliant,
                   dated  April  7,  1998.  Incorporated  by  reference  to  the
                   Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998.

            10.2   Loan Modification Agreement  (Incorporation of Equipment Loan
                   Facility)  made and entered on the 14th day of May,  1997, by
                   and between SoftNet  Systems,  Inc., a New York  Corporation,
                   Communicate   Direct,   Inc.,   an  Illinois   Corporation  ,
                   Micrographic Technology Corporation,  a Delaware Corporation,
                   Kansas  Communications,  Inc., a Kansas  Corporation and West
                   Suburban Bank.  Incorporated  by reference to exhibit 10.2 to
                   the Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                   ended September 30, 1997.

            10.3   Draw Note, in the face amount of $1,500,000  made and entered
                   on the 14th day of May, 1997, by and between SoftNet Systems,
                   Inc., a New York Corporation,  Communicate  Direct,  Inc., an
                   Illinois Corporation , Micrographic Technology Corporation, a
                   Delaware Corporation,  Kansas Communications,  Inc., a Kansas
                   Corporation and West Suburban Bank. Incorporated by reference
                   to exhibit 10.3 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                   for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997.

            10.4   Purchase  Agreement (in regards to certain  equipment leases)
                   made and entered on the 14th day of May, 1997, by and between
                   SoftNet Systems,  Inc., a New York  Corporation,  Communicate
                   Direct,   Inc.,  an  Illinois   Corporation  ,   Micrographic
                   Technology  Corporation,   a  Delaware  Corporation,   Kansas
                   Communications,  Inc., a Kansas Corporation and West Suburban
                   Bank.  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  10.4  to the
                   Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                   ended September 30, 1997.

            10.5   Amendment  "A" to Purchase  Agreement  (in regards to certain
                   equipment  leases)  made  and  entered  on  the  15th  day of
                   November,  1997, by and between SoftNet Systems,  Inc., a New
                   York  Corporation,  Communicate  Direct,  Inc.,  an  Illinois
                   Corporation , Micrographic Technology Corporation, a Delaware
                   Corporation,   Kansas   Communications,    Inc.,   a   Kansas
                   Corporation and West Suburban Bank. Incorporated by reference
                   to exhibit 10.5 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                   for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1997.

            10.6   Loan Modification Agreement (Extension of Maturity Date) made
                   and entered on the 14th day of August,  1997,  by and between
                   SoftNet Systems,  Inc., a New York  Corporation,  Communicate
                   Direct,   Inc.,  an  Illinois   Corporation  ,   Micrographic
                   Technology  Corporation,   a  Delaware  Corporation,   Kansas
                   Communications,  Inc., a Kansas Corporation and West Suburban
                   Bank.  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  10.6  to the
                   Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                   ended September 30, 1997.

            10.7   Loan Modification  Agreement made and entered on the 14th day
                   of March,  1996, by and between SoftNet Systems,  Inc., a New
                   York  Corporation,  Communicate  Direct,  Inc.,  an  Illinois
                   Corporation , Micrographic Technology Corporation, a Delaware
                   Corporation,   Kansas   Communications,    Inc.,   a   Kansas
                   Corporation and West Suburban Bank. Incorporated by reference
                   to exhibit 10.3 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                   for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996.

            10.8   Loan Modification  Agreement  (Modification of Borrowing Base
                   Definition)  made and entered into this 27th day of November,
                   1996,  by and  between  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.,  a New  York
                   Corporation   ,   Communicate   Direct,   Inc.,  an  Illinois
                   Corporation,  Micrographic Technology Corporation, a Delaware
                   Corporation,   Kansas   Communications,    Inc.,   a   Kansas
                   Corporation and West Suburban Bank. Incorporated by reference
                   to exhibit 10.6 to the  Company's  Annual Report on Form 10-K
                   for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996.

            10.9   Manufacturing  and Distribution  Licensing  Agreement,  dated
                   July 12, 1996 by and among Imnet  Systems,  Inc.,  a Delaware
                   corporation,  having  its  principal  place  of  business  in
                   Atlanta,   Georgia  ,  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.,  a  New  York
                   corporation,  having its principal  place of business in Lake
                   Forest,  Illinois  and  SoftNet's  wholly-owned   subsidiary,
                   Micrographic Technology  Corporation,  a Delaware corporation
                   having its  principal  place of business  in  Mountain  View,
                   California.  Incorporated by reference to exhibit 10.2 to the
                   Company's  Annual  Report  on Form 10-K for the  fiscal  year
                   ended September 30, 1996.

            10.10  Loan and Security Agreement, dated September 15, 1995, by and
                   between  West  Suburban  Bank  and  SoftNet   Systems,   Inc.
                   Incorporated  by reference  to exhibit 10.1 to the  Company's
                   Annual  Report  on Form  10-KSB  for the  fiscal  year  ended
                   September 30, 1995.

            10.11  Revolving  Credit Note,  dated  September  15,  1995,  in the
                   original principal amount of $6,500,000 from SoftNet Systems,
                   in favor of West Suburban Bank  Incorporated  by reference to
                   exhibit 10.2 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-KSB
                   for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995.

            10.12  SoftNet   Systems,   Inc.  1995  Long  Term  Incentive  Plan.
                   Incorporated  by reference  to exhibit 10.3 to the  Company's
                   Annual  Report  on Form  10-KSB  for the  fiscal  year  ended
                   September 30, 1995.

            10.13  Registration Rights Agreement dated September 15, 1995 by and
                   among R.C.W. Mauran,  A.J.R.  Oosthuizen and SoftNet Systems,
                   Inc.  Incorporated  by  reference  to  exhibit  10.6  to  the
                   Company's  Annual  Report on Form  10-KSB for the fiscal year
                   ended September 30, 1995.

            10.14  SoftNet  Systems,   Inc.   Employee  Stock  Option  Plan  for
                   employees    of    Micrographic    Technology    Corporation.
                   Incorporated  by reference  to exhibit 10.8 to the  Company's
                   Annual  Report  on Form  10-KSB  for the  fiscal  year  ended
                   September 30, 1995.

            10.15  Form of SoftNet  Systems,  Inc. 9%  Convertible  Subordinated
                   Debentures  due 2000.  Incorporated  by  reference to exhibit
                   10.9 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form 10-KSB for the
                   fiscal year ended September 30, 1995.

            10.16  $660,000   principal   amount  of   Micrographic   Technology
                   Corporation 6% Convertible  Subordinated  Secured  Debentures
                   due 2002 issued to R.C.W.  Mauran.  Incorporated by reference
                   to  exhibit  10.10 to the  Company's  Annual  Report  on Form
                   10-KSB for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995.

            10.17  Registration Rights Agreement,  dated as of October 28, 1994,
                   by and among  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.,  Marc  Zionts  and Ian
                   Aaron.  Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's  Current
                   Report on Form 8-K dated October 31, 1994.

            10.18  Registration Rights Agreement,  dated as of October 28, 1994,
                   by  and  among  SoftNet  Systems,   Inc.,   Forsythe/McArthur
                   Associates,  Inc.,  BWJ  Partnership,  Willard  Aaron and D&K
                   Stores,  Inc.  Incorporated  by  reference  to the  Company's
                   Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 31, 1994.

            10.19  Registration Rights Agreement,  dated as of November 1, 1994,
                   by and among  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.,  Michael  Cleary,  Tim
                   Reiland,  Dave Prokupek,  Christopher Barnes and CGRM Limited
                   Partnership  I.  Incorporated  by reference to the  Company's
                   Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 31, 1994.

            10.20  SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Common Stock Purchase Warrant expiring
                   October 31, 1999 held by Michael  Cleary,  Tim Reiland,  Dave
                   Prokupek,  Christopher  Barnes and CGRM Limited  Partnership.
                   Incorporated by reference to the Company's  Current Report on
                   Form 8-K dated October 31, 1994.

            10.21  SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Common Stock Purchase Warrant expiring
                   October  27,  1999 held by  Willard  Aaron.  Incorporated  by
                   reference to the Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated
                   October 31, 1994.

            10.22  Form of SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Common Stock Purchase Warrant.
                   Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  10.39 to the Company's
                   Annual  Report  on Form  10-KSB  for the  fiscal  year  ended
                   September 30, 1995.

            10.23  Form of SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Promissory Note.  Incorporated
                   by reference to exhibit 10.40 to the Company's  Annual Report
                   on Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995.

            10.24  Form of  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.  Note  Extension  Agreement.
                   Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  10.41 to the Company's
                   Annual  Report  on Form  10-KSB  for the  fiscal  year  ended
                   September 30, 1995.

            10.25  Form of SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.  Warrant to  Purchase  Common
                   Stock granted to holders of SoftNet Systems,  Inc. Promissory
                   Notes.  Incorporated  by  reference  to exhibit  10.42 to the
                   Company's  Annual  Report on Form  10-KSB for the fiscal year
                   ended September 30, 1995.

            10.26  Form of 9% Convertible  Subordinated  Note.  Incorporated  by
                   reference  to the  Company's  Registration  Statement on Form
                   S-4, as amended, Registration No. 33-95542.

            10.27  Stockholders  Agreement  dated March 24,  1995 among  SoftNet
                   Systems,   Inc.,   A.J.R.   Oosthuizen  and  R.C.W.   Mauran.
                   Incorporated  by  reference  to  the  Company's  Registration
                   Statement on Form S-4, as amended, Registration No. 33-95542.

            10.28  First  Amendment  dated  September  15, 1995 to  Stockholders
                   Agreement dated March 24, 1995 among SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.,
                   A.J.R.   Oosthuizen  and  R.C.W.   Mauran.   Incorporated  by
                   reference to exhibit 10.45 to the Company's  Annual Report on
                   Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995.


EXHIBIT 21  Subsidiaries

EXHIBIT 23  Consent of Independent Accountants

EXHIBIT 27  Financial Data Schedule

EXHIBIT 99  Additional Exhibits

            99.1   Common  Stock  Purchase  Warrant  Certificate  issued  to RGC
                   International  Investors,  LDC dated  August 31, 1998 (Series
                   C),  filed  as  an  exhibit  to  the  Company's  Registration
                   Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-65593).

            99.2   Common Stock Purchase Warrant Certificate issued to Shoreline
                   Pacific Equity,  Ltd. dated August 31, 1998 (Series C), filed
                   as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                   S-3 (No. 333-65593).

            99.3   Common Stock Purchase Warrant Certificate issued to Steven M.
                   Lamar dated  August 31, 1998  (Series C), filed as an exhibit
                   to the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-3 (No.
                   333-65593).

            99.4   Securities  Purchase  Agreement  by and among the Company and
                   the Buyers (as defined therein),  dated as of August 31, 1998
                   (Series C and Series D), filed as an exhibit to the Company's
                   Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-65593).

            99.5   Registration  Rights  Agreement  by and among the Company and
                   the Initial Investors (as defined therein) dated as of August
                   31, 1998  (Series C and Series D), filed as an exhibit to the
                   Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-65593).

            99.6   Escrow  Agreement  by and among the  Company,  the Buyers (as
                   defined therein), Shoreline Pacific Institutional Finance and
                   the Escrow  Holder (as defined  therein),  dated as of August
                   31,  1998  (Series C),  filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
                   Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-65593).

            99.7   Common Stock Purchase Warrant Certificate issued to Shoreline
                   Pacific Equity,  Ltd. dated August 31, 1998 (Series D), filed
                   as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                   S-3 (No. 333-65593).

            99.8   Common Stock Purchase Warrant Certificate issued to Steven M.
                   Lamar dated  August 31, 1998  (Series D), filed as an exhibit
                   to the  Company's  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-3 (No.
                   333-65593).

            99.9   Securities  Purchase  Agreement  by and among the Company and
                   the Buyers (as  defined  therein),  dated as of May 28,  1998
                   (Series B), filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration
                   Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-57337).

            99.10  Registration  Rights  Agreement  by and among the Company and
                   the Initial Investors (as defined  therein),  dated as of May
                   28,  1998  (Series B),  filed as an exhibit to the  Company's
                   Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-57337)..

            99.11  Escrow   Agreement  by  and  among  the  Buyers  (as  defined
                   therein),  Shoreline  Pacific  Institutional  Finance and the
                   Escrow Holder (as defined therein),  dated as of May 28, 1998
                   (Series D), filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration
                   Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-57337).

            99.12  Form of Common Stock Purchase Warrant  Certificate  issued to
                   purchasers  of the Series B  Preferred  Stock,  dated May 28,
                   1998,  filed  as an  exhibit  to the  Company's  Registration
                   Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-57337).

            99.13  Form of Common Stock Purchase Warrant  Certificate  issued to
                   assignees of Shoreline Pacific Institutional  Finance,  dated
                   May 28, 1998 (Series B), filed as an exhibit to the Company's
                   Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-57337)..

            99.14  List of recipients of Common Stock Purchase  Warrants  issued
                   in  connection  with  Series B Preferred  Stock  transaction,
                   filed as an exhibit to the Company's  Registration  Statement
                   on Form S-3 (No. 333-65593).

            99.15  Securities  Purchase  Agreement  by and among the Company and
                   the Buyers (as defined  therein),  dated as of  December  31,
                   1997  (Series A), filed as an exhibit to the  Company's  Form
                   8-K, dated January 12, 1998.

            99.16  Registration  Rights  Agreement  by and among the Company and
                   the  Initial  Investors  (as  defined  therein),  dated as of
                   December  31,  1997  (Series  A) , filed as an exhibit to the
                   Company's Form 8-K, dated January 12, 1998.

            99.17  Form of common Stock Purchase Warrant  Certificate  issued to
                   purchasers of the Series A Preferred  Stock,  dated  December
                   31,  1997,  filed as an  exhibit to the  Company's  Form 8-K,
                   dated January 12, 1998..

            99.18  Form of Common Stock Purchase Warrant  Certificate  issued to
                   assignees of Shoreline Pacific Institutional  Finance,  dated
                   December  31,  1997  (Series  A),  filed as an exhibit to the
                   Company's Form 8-K, dated January 12, 1998.

            99.19  List of recipients of Common Stock Purchase  Warrants  issued
                   in  connection  with  Series A Preferred  Stock  transaction,
                   filed as an exhibit to the Company's  Registration  Statement
                   on Form S-3 (No. 333-65593).

            99.20  Action by Written  Consent of the Sole Holder of the Series E
                   Convertible  Preferred Stock of SoftNet Systems,  Inc., filed
                   as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
                   S-3 (No. 333-65593).

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>


EXHIBIT 21       Subsidiaries



                              SoftNet Systems, Inc.
                     List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant
                               September 30, 1998


                        MediaCity World, Inc. (Delaware)

                       Communicate Direct, Inc. (Illinois)

                      Kansas Communications, Inc. (Kansas)

                 Micrographic Technology Corporation (Delaware)




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>


Consent of Independent Accountants

We consent to the inclusion by reference in the registration  statements on Form
S-3 (Registration No. 333-57337), Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-45589) and Form
S-3  (Registration  No.  333-45335) of our report dated December 1, 1998, except
for Note 18 as to which  the date is  January  13,  1999,  on our  audits of the
financial statements and financial statement schedules of SoftNet Systems,  Inc.
and subsidiaries. We also consent to the reference to our firm under the caption
"Experts."


PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS L.L.P.

January 13, 1999
San Jose, California




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
This schedule contains summary information extracted from Form 10-K for the year
ended  September  30, 1998 and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such
Form 10-K.
</LEGEND>
<CIK>                                      0000097196
<NAME>                           SOFTNET SYSTEMS INC.
<MULTIPLIER>                                    1,000
<CURRENCY>                                 US Dollars
       
<S>                                       <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                  12-mos
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                         SEP-30-1998
<PERIOD-END>                              SEP-30-1998
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                 1.000
<CASH>                                         12,504
<SECURITIES>                                        0
<RECEIVABLES>                                   3,826
<ALLOWANCES>                                      721
<INVENTORY>                                     1,345
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               19,415
<PP&E>                                          8,021
<DEPRECIATION>                                  1,498
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 34,555
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          11,976
<BONDS>                                        10,563
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                          18,187
<PREFERRED>                                         0
<COMMON>                                       43,782
<OTHER-SE>                                      (188)
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   34,555
<SALES>                                        14,060
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               14,060
<CGS>                                          10,628
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  19,265
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                (320)
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                    0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              1,416
<INCOME-PRETAX>                              (16,929)
<INCOME-TAX>                                        0
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                          (16,929)
<DISCONTINUED>                                   (73)
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                     0
<CHANGES>                                           0
<NET-INCOME>                                 (17,345)
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                  (2.35)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                  (2.35)
        


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
