-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 QqfsNx8iiE615bf5RTLxT7qmzga8c897BR3GKedUY+4a6DNlhnEBpREwH0iK72uN
 K8fjSfnDBqMJu0m2fKk/6w==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001060369-01-000016.txt : 20010123
<SEC-HEADER>0001060369-01-000016.hdr.sgml : 20010123
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001060369-01-000016
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20000930
FILED AS OF DATE:		20010116

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SOFTNET SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000097196
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-TELEPHONE INTERCONNECT SYSTEMS [7385]
		IRS NUMBER:				111817252
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0930

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05270
		FILM NUMBER:		1508674

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		650 TOWNSEND STREET
		STREET 2:		SUITE 225
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94103
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6509653700

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		520 LOGUE AVE
		CITY:			MOUNTAIN VIEW
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94043

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	VADER GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MAGICSILK INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880308

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	TENSOR CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19860819
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<FILENAME>0001.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FOR THE FISCAL PERIOD ENDED 09/30/2000
<TEXT>

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K


|X| Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2000.

                                       OR

[ ] Transition  Report under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange Act
of 1934.


                           Commission File No.: 1-5270

                              SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              Delaware                                 11-1817252
   --------------------------------        ---------------------------------
   (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     incorporation or organization)

650 Townsend Street, Suite 225, San Francisco, CA          94103
- -------------------------------------------------      --------------
   (Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (415) 365-2500

                    Securities registered pursuant to Section
                               12(b) of the Act:

   Title of each class                Name of each exchange on which registered
  ---------------------              -------------------------------------------
    Common stock, par                            NASDAQ National Market
  value $0.01 per share


        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes |X| No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best  of  registrant's   knowledge,  in  the  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in Part  III of this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. |X|

The  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
registrant at November 30, 2000 was approximately $54,134,000.

Indicate the number of shares  outstanding  of each of the  issuer's  classes of
common stock, as of the latest practicable date.




                   Class                     Outstanding at November 30, 2000
      -------------------------------        --------------------------------
       Common stock, $0.01 par value                     26,650,555

<PAGE>

                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

This Annual Report of Form 10-K contains  forward-looking  statements concerning
the  Company's  anticipated  future  operating  results,   future  revenues  and
earnings,  adequacy  of future  cash flow,  or expected  Y2K  readiness.  (These
forward-looking   statements  include,   but  are  not  limited  to,  statements
containing the words "expect",  "believe",  "will", "may", "should",  "project",
"estimate" and like expressions, and the negative thereof.) These statements are
subject to risks and  uncertainties  that could cause  actual  results to differ
materially  from the  statements,  including  the risks  attendant  to a growing
business in a new  industry as well as those risks  described  under the caption
"Factors Affecting the Company's Operating Results".

For the year ended September 30, 2000,  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc. and subsidiaries
(the  "Company")  further  modified  its plans to become a leading  provider  of
broadband Internet services.  The Company's  satellite  subsidiary,  Intelligent
Communications,  Inc.  ("Intellicom"),  continued to expand by entering into the
Latin American market place as well as creating new products and services.

In  addition on January  24,  2000,  the  Company  founded  Aerzone  Corporation
("Aerzone"),  a Delaware  corporation,  to provide wireless  high-speed Internet
access and related services to global business  travelers.  As part of Aerzone's
business, the Company acquired Laptop Lane Limited ("Laptop Lane"), a Washington
corporation,  on April 21, 2000.  As of September  30, 2000 Laptop Lane provided
business center  services in 12 airports in the United States and Amsterdam.  On
December 19, 2000, the Company  decided to discontinue  the Aerzone  business in
light of , among  other  things,  signficant  long-term  capital  needs  and the
difficulty of securing the necessary  financing  because of the current state of
the financial  markets.  As part of the  discontinuance of the Aerzone business,
the Company anticipates that it will sell the Laptop Lane business.

On  December  7,  2000,  the  Company's  Board of  Directors  approved a plan to
discontinue  providing  cable-based  high-speed  Internet access through its ISP
Channel,  Inc.  ("ISP  Channel")  subsidiary by December 31, 2000 because of (1)
consolidation in the cable industry made it difficult for ISP Channel to achieve
the economies of scale  necessary to provide such services  profitably,  and (2)
the Company was no longer able to bear costs of maintaining the ISP Channel.

The Company is currently exploring whether it will develop new lines of business
as well as other alternative uses for the cash and other assets that will remain
after the discontinuance of ISP Channel and Aerzone.

The total  employees of the Company have  increased from 229 as of September 30,
1999 to approximately  552 as of September 30, 2000; of whom  approximately  436
are associated with the various discontinued operations.

The  Company's  current  principal  executive  office is located at 650 Townsend
Street,  Suite 225, San Francisco,  California  94103. As of September 30, 2000,
the Company had approximately 33 employees at its principal executive office.



<PAGE>


                                   Intellicom

Intellicom  combines  Internet  services with  sophisticated  two-way  satellite
technology  to  deliver  a  turnkey  solution  for  Internet  service  providers
("ISP's"),  schools,  corporations  and businesses.  Since 1995,  Intellicom has
provided  two-way  satellite  based global network  services using a proprietary
network optimizing  technology.  Intellicom utilizes  state-of-the-art  wireless
technologies,  broadband delivery, data-push and satellite-based Internet access
caching  products to provide its customers with fast access to  information  and
efficient utilization of existing network capacity.  Headquartered in Livermore,
California,  Intellicom  operates over 400 earth  stations in the United States,
Latin America and the Caribbean,  as well as a  24-hour-a-day,  seven-day-a-week
Network Operations  Center,  Internet Data Center and Customer Support Center to
provide reliability and support for customers.


Products and Services


Intellicom offers two-way satellite connectivity solutions to North American and
Latin  American  markets  through its branded  services  called  SkyPOP(TM)  and
K.I.D.S.(TM).  These services provide  customers with `one-hop'  connectivity to
the U.S.  Internet  backbone  structure  via two  different  satellite  systems,
"SatMex-5"  and "GE-3".  The Intellicom  connectivity  niche includes very small
aperture terminal ("VSAT") side services, including primary domain name services
("DNS") and extensive caching as well as standard Internet  application services
including web and e-mail servers and user firewall.  Hub side Internet  services
include  secondary  DNS,  Usenet  alias and parent  caching  services as well as
reverse proxy or mirroring of VSAT customer web sites.  In addition,  Intellicom
utilizes a proprietary  satellite  protocol which  overcomes the  geo-stationary
latency issues through an optimized and efficient satellite protocol. The SkyPOP
and K.I.D.S.  services are  asymmetrical  connectivity  solutions  with a 2 mb/s
broadcast  and a scalable  return  channel from 19.2 kb/s to 256 kb/s  utilizing
DVB-S satellite modem technology. The OEM-manufactured satellite system includes
both the outdoor and indoor units, creating a total `turn-key' service.


Products for ISP's.  SkyPOP is targeted at the worldwide  ISP market.  A turnkey
solution,  SkyPOP  provides  all the  hardware,  software,  and  services an ISP
requires to get up and running.  SkyPOP's flexibility offers the ability for the
ISP to grow easily and quickly  without  major  changes to their  configuration.
SkyPOP is easy to deploy in any  geography  within a few hours and is a complete
solution for the ISP.  Satellite  service is customized to the ISP's need with a
dedicated  19.2 to 256 kbs link to the Internet and comes  standard  with a 2 Mb
shared down link for fast output of information to the ISP.

Intellicom also offers revenue-generating products and services that the ISP can
bundle with their  Internet  access to  differentiate  themselves in the market.
These include adding wireless LAN connectivity,  Web hosting, and online content
management,  such as from CMeRun who  provides  the  Microsoft  Office Suite for
consumers.  Intellicom will also provide supporting professional services to the
ISP - through  co-location,  network management,  and customer service - so that
the ISP can focus on growing their business with their subscribers. Intellicom's
standard service offering  provides  instant Internet  backbone.  Intellicom has
configured each SkyPOP with the services the ISP wants and needs.

The standard SkyPOP product includes an Internet services server,  branded "Edge
Connector(TM)" with the following features:

Usenet  Alias -  Intellicom  provides  a  domain  name  alias on  behalf  of its
customers and allows  either `push' or `pull' usenet feeds.  This provides up to
25% more bandwidth efficiency.

Primary and  Secondary  DNS - Intellicom  provides name services as close to the
end  user   (subscriber)  as  possible.   Without  incurring  a  satellite  hop,
Intellicom's  Edge  Connector  provides  primary DNS  translation at the network
edge.


Integrated  Firewall  -  Intellicom's  Edge  Connector  provides  an  integrated
firewall and network Internet protocol ("IP") address that creates a barrier for
internal and external networks.


Transport  Protocol -  Intellicom  has  integrated  a  satellite  protocol  that
overcomes the geo-  stationary  satellite  latency issue with TCP/IP and related
error correction.
<PAGE>

Preemptive  Caching  - The  faster  the  information  can reach the end user the
better.  Intellicom caches the top 15% of activity on its network, with the goal
of eliminating all redundant data. This makes the end user experience better and
optimizes the network.

Products for Schools.  Intellicom's K.I.D.S. service is designed exclusively for
the education community.  Intellicom has been connecting schools to the Internet
for five  years and  Intellicom's  K.I.D.S.  package  reflects  the needs of the
education  professional.  Easily  provisioned  at the school site,  the K.I.D.S.
product delivers one-hop access to the U.S.  Internet portal.  Computer labs are
directly  connected to the  Internet  through an Ethernet  cable which, connects
directly to the K.I.D.S. hardware.  Installations are commonly completed in less
than a day.

The  K.I.D.S.  Web server has all the features  described in SkyPOP.  Additional
professional  services  are also  provided to  schools,  with  content  targeted
specifically at the educational market. An example of this is OzNewMedia,  which
develops graphical educational software for school curricula.

Future  Products and Services.  Intellicom is developing the following  products
and services.

Voice over IP ("VoIP").  VoIP is one of the fastest growing  applications in the
Internet world.  Once used only as an inexpensive  PC-to-PC  telephone with poor
quality,  large  telecommunication   companies  are  now  investing  heavily  in
packetized  voice for their  standard  networks  with high quality  telephone to
telephone transmission.  Intellicom intends add VoIP capabilities to its product
portfolio  as demand has  already  been  expressed  in the  Caribbean  and Latin
America regions for both enterprise intranets and ISP services.

Wireless  Networking.  This is Intellicom's total wireless solution for Internet
access that combines satellite IP gateway services and wireless  technologies to
business users. This capability also provides alternatives where the terrestrial
infrastructure will not provide quick and cost-effective connectivity.


Content  Hosting.  Intellicom's  hosting  services  allow  companies  to quickly
implement  e-business  networking and computing  initiatives without prohibitive
costs  for  equipment,  telecommunications  networks  and  maintenance.  Hosting
e-business applications with Intellicom reduces these expenses,  while providing
access  to  an  engineering  group  with  satellite  networking  expertise,   an
operations team that is always available,  security experts,  dedicated servers,
network reporting and monitoring and superior pro-active customer service.

Mediacasting.  Intellicom's  mediacasting  services  include data  broadcasting,
mirroring,  content delivery and streaming IP services.  Customers  benefit from
having their content and applications  intelligently  delivered via Intellicom's
connectivity services, by-passing the congested terrestrial networks. Intellicom
can  provide  broadcasting   services  or  act  as  the  transport  layer  only.
Intellicom's streaming mediacasting services provide comprehensive solutions for
both live and on-demand events, and support multiple streaming formats including
Apple's QuickTime(TM),  RealAudio(TM) G2, RealVideo(TM) G2 and Microsoft Windows
Media(TM) player. The companies that use Intellicom's  mediacasting  service can
leverage its  computing  resources  and avoid the need to invest in the hardware
and other  infrastructure  necessary to serve  content on their own.  Intellicom
intends  to  establish  a  dedicated  2 mb/s  multicast  broadcast  carrier  for
broadcasting  services,  utilizing small, yet scalable  satellite return channel
starting at 19.2 kb/s or a  telecommunication  company  based return path.  This
platform will provide the transport layer for both data casting and mediacasting
services.

Network Architecture


Intellicom's network design integrates the broadcast  capabilities of satellites
with Internet networking technologies to offer its customers a scalable solution
to the constraints of the public Internet infrastructure. Intellicom's network's
open technical  architecture  enables it to provide three categories of Internet
services:  (a) high-speed broadband  connectivity to the Internet backbone,  (b)
enhanced Internet services, such as Internet telephony, and (c) Internet content
distribution,  such  as  news  feeds  and  streaming  media.  Intellicom's  high
performance  network  is  designed  to  provide  enhanced  connectivity  to  its
customers.  Intellicom's  Livermore,  California Internet Data Center ("IDC") is
the central hub for the North and South American market penetration.  The IDC is
connected to the Internet by high-speed SONET circuits.


Intellicom leases satellite transponder space from GE Americom and Loral SatMex.
Intellicom  continues to negotiate  for  additional  long-term  satellite  space
segment in the North  American and Latin America  markets.  From the  Livermore,
California IDC,  Intellicom operates three Central Earth Station systems linking
with  the  two  geo-stationary  satellites.  Intellicom  currently  uses  2 mb/s
outbound shared carriers and is currently  operating  approximately 15 carriers.
The inbound  transmitters from Intellicom's  customer VSAT sites range from 19.2
kb/s to 256 kb/s SCPC dedicated links.
<PAGE>

Sales and Marketing

Intellicom's   sales  and  marketing   objective  is  to  achieve  broad  market
penetration  and  increase  brand  name   recognition   among  Internet  content
providers,  Web hosting companies and ISPs on a global basis through investments
in the expansion of its sales organization and extensive marketing activities.

Intellicom targets its customers predominantly through distributors complemented
by a range of external alliances.  Intellicom co-markets with other companies to
increase the  effectiveness of its distributors and to serve market segments and
geographies that are better served through  alternative  channels.  Furthermore,
Intellicom's  strategic  relationships  with companies such as Radyne  ComStream
Inc. and Mentat Systems,  Inc. provide it with references and leads arising from
their sales forces.

Intellicom's  marketing  organization  is responsible  for strategy and business
planning, product management, product marketing, public relations, sales support
and marketing  communications.  Product management includes defining the product
plan and bringing to market Intellicom's products and services. These activities
include product strategy and definition,  pricing, competitive analysis, product
launches,  channel  program  development  and  product  life  cycle  management.
Intellicom  stimulates  product  demand  through  a  broad  range  of  marketing
communications and public relations activities. Primary marketing communications
activities include public relations,  collateral,  advertising,  direct response
programs and management of its Web site.  Intellicom's  public relations focuses
on  cultivating  industry  analyst  and  media  relationships  with  the goal of
securing  broad media  coverage  and  recognition  as a leader and  innovator in
global Internet applications deployment.

Strategic  Relationships. Intellicom  believes  that  strategic  technology  and
marketing/reselling  relationships  enhance its ability to reach new  customers.
Strategic  relationships with Intellicom's customers in its target markets, such
as  with  Tricom   Communications,   Inc.,  bring  not  only  a  high  level  of
understanding  of the  specific  needs of that market but also  credibility  and
visibility   with  potential  new  customers.   Intellicom  also  has  strategic
relationships with companies that can enhance its ability to develop and deliver
new  application  services,  such as  Radyne  ComStream  Inc..  These  strategic
relationships  provide powerful  additional  sales channels for Intellicom;  for
example  Intellicom  will be promoted by Radyne  ComStream  Inc.'s  sales force.
Additionally,  Intellicom  hopes to leverage  these  enterprises'  research  and
development  expertise  to develop  new  satellite  connectivity  solutions.  As
opportunities arise, Intellicom looks to establish new relationships with system
integrators,  hardware and software  vendors and application  service  providers
that provide network equipment, software and consulting services to companies.

Customer Service and Quality Assurance

Intellicom  offers a high level of customer  service and  quality  assurance  by
understanding  the  technical   requirements  and  business  objectives  of  its
customers and  addressing  their needs  proactively on an individual  basis.  By
working  closely  with  its  customers,   Intellicom  is  able  to  enhance  the
performance of its  customers'  Internet  operations,  avoid  downtime,  resolve
quickly any problems that may arise and make appropriate adjustments in services
as customer  needs  change over time.  Intellicom  works with its  customers  to
ensure  that it is  offering  the  appropriate  types and  quality  of  service.
Intellicom  uses advanced  software tools to aid in its customer  monitoring and
service efforts.

Customer  service  begins  before a sale,  when  Intellicom  provides  technical
support for complex orders. During the installation phase,  Intellicom assigns a
transition team and a project manager,  who also retains  responsibility for the
account after  installation,  to assist the new customer  with the  installation
process.   After  installation,   the  customer's  equipment  is  supervised  by
Intellicom's  network  operations  center  in Eau  Claire,  Wisconsin,  which is
operated  twenty-four  hours a day, seven days a week by technicians  who answer
customer  calls,  monitor the site and network  operations and activate teams to
solve  problems that arise.  Intellicom's  customer  service  personnel are also
available to assist customers whose operations require specialized procedures.

Customer Service Center ("CSC")  Intellicom offers technical support services to
its  customers  through a CSC  location  in Eau  Claire,  Wisconsin.  As part of
Intellicom's value-added services, Intellicom will provide technical support for
its  clients'  customers.  The call  center team  operates in various  levels of
service, from incoming subscriber services,  end-user connectivity and orders to
satellite network monitoring, as well as product support for network servers and
routers.  This  diversified  team of support  technicians  manages  Intellicom's
customer's  incidents  as  well  as  operates  Intellicom's  small  dial-up  ISP
division.  The CSC staff is multi-lingual with emphasis on Spanish in support of
Intellicom's  Latin  American  deployments.  In  addition,  Intellicom  supports
various clients in an out-sourced relationship.

Network Integration and Testing Facilities


Intellicom   operates  an  assembly  and  integration   facility  in  Livermore,
California.   From  this   location,   Intellicom   receives   components   from
approximately  35 vendors,  and assembles the components into turn-key  customer
systems.  Upon completion of the assembly process, the systems are tested on six
dedicated  satellite  systems  at  the  facility.   Final  customer  RF  and  IP
configurations  are  downloaded,  tested  and the  entire  system  packaged  and
shipped.
<PAGE>

Competition


Intellicom's  business  is  intensely  competitive.  There  are few  substantial
barriers to entering the hosting service business,  and Intellicom  expects that
it will face  additional  competition  from existing  competitors and new market
entrants in the future.  Intellicom  believes that  participants  in this market
must grow rapidly and achieve a  significant  presence in the market in order to
compete effectively.  Intellicom believes that the principal competitive factors
in  Intellicom's  market are  uncongested  connectivity,  quality of facilities,
level of customer service, price, the financial stability and credibility of the
provider,  brand  name,  the  management  team and the  availability  of network
management  tools.  Intellicom  might not have the  resources  or  expertise  to
compete   successfully  in  the  future.   Intellicom's  current  and  potential
competitors  in the market  include:  (i) providers of satellite  based Internet
connectivity services,  such as NetSat Express,  Interpacket Networks,  which is
being  acquired by a  subsidiary  of American  Tower  Corporation,  Loral Orion,
Hughes Electronics'  PanAmSat and Hughes Network Systems as well as providers of
co-location   services,   such  as   Exodus   Communications,   Inc.,   Frontier
GlobalCenter,  Inc., which is being acquired by Global Crossing  Holdings,  Ltd,
Hiway  Technologies,   Inc.,  which  was  acquired  by  Verio  Inc.  and  Globix
Corporation;  (ii)  national  and  regional  ISPs,  such as  Concentric  Network
Corporation,  PSINet,  Inc.,  MCI  WorldCom  and  certain  subsidiaries  of  GTE
Corporation; (iii) global, regional and local telecommunications companies, such
as Sprint,  MCI WorldCom and regional  bell  operating  companies,  some of whom
supply capacity to Intellicom; and (iv) large information technology outsourcing
firms, such as International  Business Machines  Corporation and Electronic Data
Systems.  Some of these  companies  operate in one or more of these markets.  In
addition,   many  of  Intellicom's   current  and  potential   competitors  have
substantially  greater  financial,  technical  and marketing  resources,  larger
customer bases,  longer operating  histories,  greater name recognition and more
established  relationships  in the industry than  Intellicom  does. As a result,
some of these  competitors  may be able to  develop  and  expand  their  network
infrastructures  and service  offerings  more quickly,  adapt to new or emerging
technologies and changes in customer  requirements more quickly,  take advantage
of acquisitions and other  opportunities more readily,  devote greater resources
to the marketing and sale of their  services and adopt more  aggressive  pricing
policies  than  Intellicom  can.  In an effort  to gain  market  share,  some of
Intellicom's   competitors   have  offered   co-location   services  similar  to
Intellicom's,  at lower  prices or with  incentives  not matched by  Intellicom,
including  free  start-up  and domain  name  registration,  and  periods of free
service  and  low-priced  Internet  access.  As  a  result  of  these  policies,
Intellicom  may  encounter   increasing  pricing  pressure  that  could  have  a
significant adverse effect on its business and operating results.


In addition,  these  competitors  have entered and will likely continue to enter
into  joint  ventures,  consortiums  or  consolidations  to  provide  additional
services  competitive  with those  provided  by  Intellicom.  As a result,  such
competitors  may be  able to  provide  customers  with  additional  benefits  in
connection with their co-location and network  management  solutions,  including
reduced  communications  costs,  which could  reduce the overall  costs of their
services  relative to  Intellicom's  services.  Intellicom  might not be able to
offset the effects of any such price reductions. In addition, Intellicom expects
competition to intensify as its current and potential competitors  incorporate a
broader range of bandwidth,  connectivity and Internet  networking  services and
tools into their service offerings.  Intellicom  believes that companies seeking
co-location  and Internet  connectivity  providers for their  critical  Internet
operations  may use more than one company to provide this service.  As a result,
these customers would be able to shift the amount of service and bandwidth usage
from one  provider to another.  Intellicom  may also face  competition  from its
suppliers.  Intellicom's agreements with its suppliers and other partners do not
limit or restrict those parties from offering  similar  services to Intellicom's
customers, thereby enabling such parties to compete against Intellicom.

Employees

As of September 30, 2000, Intellicom has 83 employees.

Facilities


Intellicom operates from leased facilities in Livermore, California; Eau Claire,
Wisconsin;  and Miami,  Florida.  The  Livermore  location  houses  Intellicom's
operations  data center and up/down link facility as well as the  administrative
and sales offices.  The Eau Claire,  Wisconsin  office  consists of Intellicom's
customer  service center and  Intellicom's  ISP subsidiary.  The Miami,  Florida
office   consists  of   Intellicom's   Latin  American  sales  and   engineering
departments.


Legal Proceedings

Intellicom has no material pending litigation.


<PAGE>


                                ISP Channel, Inc.


On December 7, 2000, the Company  decided to discontinue  providing  cable-based
high-speed  Internet access through its ISP Channel subsidiary  because,   among
other things,  consolidation in the cable industry made it difficult for the ISP
Channel to achieve the  economies of scale  necessary  to provide such  services
profitably.

As of December 31, 2000,  ISP Channel  ceased  operations at the majority of its
locations. ISP Channel will seek to wind down its business by the end of January
2001. The financial statements presented elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form
10-K include the operations of ISP Channel as a discontinued operation.

Employees

As of September 30, 2000, ISP Channel had 276 employees.

Facilities

ISP Channel has a network  operations  center and customer  care center  located
respectively at 510 and 520 Logue Avenue,  Mountain View,  California 94043. The
Company also maintains sales offices in Chicago, Illinois; Denver, Colorado; and
Los Angeles, California.

Legal Proceedings

ISP Channel has no material pending litigation.




<PAGE>


                               Aerzone Corporation


On January 24, 2000 the Company founded Aerzone (formerly SoftNet Zone, Inc.), a
Delaware corporation,  to provide business travelers wireless broadband Internet
services as well as business  center  services at airports,  hotels,  convention
centers, and other high traffic areas where business people congregate. On April
21,  2000,  the Company  acquired  Laptop  Lane,  a provider of business  center
services  primarily  at  airports,  and  transferred  Laptop  Lane to Aerzone in
exchange for Aerzone common stock.  On December 19, 2000, the Company  announced
that it would discontinue the operations of Aerzone and anticipated that it will
sell the Laptop Lane business. In making the decision to discontinue the Aerzone
business,  the Company determined that the capital needs of the Aerzone wireless
business were greater than the Company's  financial  capacity and that Aerzone's
ability to raise the investment  capital necessary to support its growth was not
likely.

With the  exception of the potential  sale of Laptop Lane,  Aerzone will seek to
wind down its  business by the end of January  2001.  The  financial  statements
presented elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include the operations of
Aerzone as a discontinued operation.


Laptop Lane


As of  September  30, 2000,  Aerzone,  through  Laptop Lane,  operated 19 retail
stores in 12 airports,  and had an additional 4 retail stores under construction
in 2 airports and one convention  center.  The total number of  workstations  at
such retail stores, either operating or under construction, was 178.

A Laptop  Lane  business  center  includes  4 to 8  private  workstations.  Each
workstation  includes  a  desktop  computer,  a  docking  station  for a  laptop
computer, a telephone,  and high-speed Internet  connectivity.  Each Laptop Lane
also  provides  printing,   faxing,   copying,   packaging  and  shipping,   and
videoconferencing services. Where space permits, Laptop Lanes include conference
centers for meetings. In addition to providing a workstation,  Laptop Lanes sell
products geared to business travelers.


Employees

As of  September  30,  2000,  Aerzone had 160  employees,  of whom 109 worked in
Laptop Lanes across the United States and in Amsterdam.

Facilities

Aerzone is  headquartered  at SoftNet's  offices in San  Francisco,  California.
Aerzone  has  additional  offices  in  Seattle  and  Bellevue,   Washington  and
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

Legal Proceedings

Aerzone has no material pending litigation.


<PAGE>


                Factors Affecting The Company's Operating Results

The  risks  and  uncertainties  described  below  are not the only ones that the
Company faces.  Additional  risks and  uncertainties  not presently known to the
Company or that the  Company  currently  deems  immaterial  may also  impair the
Company's business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, the
Company's  business,  financial  condition  or  results of  operations  could be
materially adversely affected.  In such case, the trading price of the Company's
common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.

                                  Company Risks

The Company has a Limited History Operating Internet Businesses,  which may make
it Difficult to Evaluate the Company's Performance and Prospects

Any  evaluation of the  Company's  businesses  will be difficult  because of its
limited  operating  history in the Internet  access and services  business.  The
Company  acquired  ISP  Channel  in June  1996,  Intelligent  Communications  in
February 1999 and formed Aerzone in January 2000. Prior to 1996, the Company did
not  have  any  experience  in  businesses  related  to  the  Internet  or  high
technology, and since the acquisition of Intellicom in February 1999, the nature
of the Company's  business has changed.  As a result,  the Company's  historical
financial information may not be indicative of the Company's future results, and
the Company's prospects are difficult to predict and may change rapidly.

In addition,  the Company  confronts  all of the  challenges  and  uncertainties
encountered by growing, early-stage companies, particularly companies in the new
and rapidly evolving international market for Internet connectivity,  access and
related services. These challenges include the Company's ability to:


o    Increase the services  purchased  from the Company by its customers and the
     amount of revenue the Company receives from each of its customers;
o    Satisfy the changing needs of the Company's existing and future customers;
o    Acquire, develop and market new Internet services;
o    Respond to the changing needs of the Internet  access and content  delivery
     market;
o    Expand Intellicom's international customer base;
o    Develop and maintain strategic and business relationships;
o    Capitalize on the Company's early entrant status;  and o Recruit and retain
     key personnel.

The Company has a History of Losses and Expects to Incur Losses in the Future

The Company has sustained substantial losses over the last five fiscal years and
expects to continue  to report net losses for the  foreseeable  future.  For the
year ended September 30, 2000, the Company had a net loss of $232,353,000. As of
September 30, 2000, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $332,600,000.  The
Company expects to incur  additional  losses and experience  negative cash flows
related  to  capital  expenditures,   sales  and  marketing,   and  general  and
administrative  expenses  as  Intellicom  expands its  satellite-based  Internet
services.  These  efforts  may be more  expensive  than  the  Company  currently
anticipates.  The Company cannot guaranty it will ever achieve  profitability or
reduce its accumulated deficit.


The Company may not Generate Sufficient Cash Flows to Support its Expenses


The Company's current expense levels are to a large extent fixed on expectations
of future  revenues.  In addition,  the Company may be unable to adjust spending
quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall.  As a result,
the Company may not be able to grow its revenues  quickly enough to absorb these
expenses.


The Company may not have Sufficient Capital to Fund its Business Plan

The Company cannot predict with any degree of accuracy  whether the Company will
ultimately  achieve  cash  flow  levels  sufficient  to  support  the  Company's
operations,  development  of new products  and  services,  and  expansion of the
Company's Internet  services.  Unless the Company reaches such cash flow levels,
the Company may require additional  financing to provide funding for operations.
If the  Company is  required  to raise  capital  through a debt  financing,  the
Company  may be highly  leveraged  and such debt  securities  may have rights or
privileges senior to those of the Company's current stockholders. If the Company
is  required  to raise  capital by issuing  equity  securities,  the  percentage
ownership  of the  Company's  stockholders  will be  reduced,  stockholders  may
experience  dilution  and such  securities  may  have  rights,  preferences  and
privileges  senior to those of the Company's  common stock.  The Company  cannot
provide any assurance that such financing will be on terms that are favorable to
the Company.  In the event that the Company cannot generate sufficient cash flow
from operations,  or is unable to borrow or otherwise obtain additional funds on
favorable  terms to finance  operations  when needed,  the  Company's  business,
financial condition, and prospects would be materially adversely affected.
<PAGE>

The Company's  Quarterly  Results are Unpredictable and may Adversely Affect the
Trading Price of the Company's Common Stock

The Company's operating results have fluctuated widely on a quarterly basis, and
we expect to experience  fluctuation in future quarterly  operating results.  In
addition,  the Company cannot predict with any  significant  degree of certainty
the Company's  quarterly  operating results.  Many of the factors that cause the
Company's  quarter-to-quarter  operating results to be unpredictable are largely
beyond the Company's control. Factors that impact operating results include:

o        Demand for the Company's products and services;
o        Conditions in the Internet services industries;
o        Timing of dispositions, acquisitions and capital expenditures;
o        General economic conditions; and
o        Timing and conditions of sales.

As a result,  the Company  believes  that  period-to-period  comparisons  of the
Company's revenues and results of operations are not necessarily  meaningful and
should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. It is likely that
in one or more  future  quarters  the  Company's  results  may  fall  below  the
expectations of analysts and investors.  In such event, the trading price of the
Company's common stock would likely decrease.

The  Company's  Purchase   of  Intellicom  may  Adversely  Affect the  Company's
Financial Condition

The purchase  of Intellicom  involves other risks including  potential  negative
effects on the Company's reported results of operations from acquisition-related
charges and amortization of acquired  technology and other intangible assets. As
a result of the  Intellicom  acquisition,  the  Company  recorded  approximately
$16,075,000  of  intangible  assets.  The  resulting  amortization  expense will
adversely affect the Company's  earnings and  profitability  for the foreseeable
future. If the amount of such recorded  intangible assets is increased or if the
Company has future losses and is unable to demonstrate the Company's  ability to
recover the amount of intangible  assets recorded during such time periods,  the
period of  amortization  could be shortened,  which may further  increase annual
amortization  charges.  In such event,  the  Company's  business  and  financial
condition  could  be  materially  and  adversely  affected.  In  addition,   the
Intellicom acquisition was structured as a purchase by the Company of all of the
outstanding  stock of  Intellicom.  As a result,  the Company could be adversely
affected by direct and contingent liabilities of Intellicom. It is possible that
the  Company is not aware of all of the  liabilities  of  Intellicom  , and that
Intellicom has greater liabilities than the Company expected.


If the Company is unable to Successfully  Integrate Future Acquisitions into the
Company's Operations,  then the Company's Results and Financial Condition may be
Adversely Affected

In  addition to the recent  acquisitions  of  Intellicom  and Laptop  Lane,  the
Company may acquire other  businesses that the Company  believes will complement
the Company's  existing  businesses.  The Company  cannot predict if or when any
prospective  acquisitions  will  occur  or the  likelihood  that  they  will  be
completed  on  favorable  terms.  Acquiring  a  business  involves  many  risks,
including:


o    Disruption of the Company's ongoing business and diversion of resources and
     management time;
o    Dilution to existing  stockholders if the Company uses equity securities to
     finance acquisitions;
o    Incurrence of unforeseen obligations or liabilities;
o    Inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures
     and policies;
o    Difficulty assimilating the acquired operations and personnel;
o    Risks of  entering  markets  in which the  Company  has little or no direct
     prior experience; and
o    Impairment  of  relationships  with  employees  or customers as a result of
     changes in management.

The Company cannot assure that it will make any  acquisitions or that it will be
able to obtain additional financing for such acquisitions,  if necessary. If any
acquisitions  are  made,  the  Company  cannot  assure  that  it will be able to
successfully  integrate the acquired  business  into its  operations or that the
acquired business will perform as expected.
<PAGE>

The Company's Equity Investments in Other Companies may not Yield any Returns


The Company has made equity investments in several  Internet-related  companies,
including  joint  ventures  in  other  countries.   In  most  instances,   these
investments are in the form of illiquid  securities of private companies.  These
companies  typically are in an early stage of development and may be expected to
incur substantial  losses. The Company's  investments in these companies may not
yield any  return.  Furthermore,  if these  companies  are not  successful,  the
Company  could incur charges  related to the  write-down or write-off of assets.
The Company  also  records and  continues to record a share of the net losses in
these companies, up to the Company's cost basis. The Company may make additional
investments in the future.  Losses or charges  resulting from these  investments
could harm the Company's operating results.


The Company does not Intend to pay Dividends


The Company has not historically paid any cash dividends on the Company's common
stock and does not  expect to  declare  any such  dividends  in the  foreseeable
future.  Payment of any future dividends will depend upon the Company's earnings
and capital  requirements,  the Company's debt obligations and other factors the
board of directors deems relevant.  The Company  currently intends to retain its
earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of its businesses.


The Company's Stock Price is Volatile

The volatility of the Company's stock price may make it difficult for holders of
the common stock to transfer  their  shares at the prices they want.  The market
price for the Company's  common stock has been volatile in the past, and several
factors could cause the price to fluctuate  substantially  in the future.  These
factors include:

o    Announcements of developments related to the Company's business;
o    Fluctuations in the Company's results of operations;
o    Sales  of  substantial  amounts  of  the  Company's   securities  into  the
     marketplace;
o    General conditions in the Company's industries or the worldwide economy;
o    An outbreak of war or hostilities;
o    A  shortfall  in revenues or  earnings  compared  to  securities  analysts'
     expectations;
o    Changes in analysts' recommendations or projections;
o    Announcements  of new products or services by the Company or the  Company's
     competitors; and
o    Changes in the  Company's  relationships  with the  Company's  suppliers or
     customers.

The market price of the Company's  common stock may fluctuate  significantly  in
the  future,   and  these   fluctuations  may  be  unrelated  to  the  Company's
performance.  General market price  declines or market  volatility in the future
could adversely  affect the price of the Company's  common stock,  and thus, the
current market price may not be indicative of future market prices.

Prospective  Anti-Takeover  Provisions  could  Negatively  Impact the  Company's
Stockholders

The Company is a Delaware  corporation.  The Delaware  General  Corporation  Law
contains  certain  provisions  that may  discourage,  delay or make a change  in
control of the  Company  more  difficult  or prevent  the  removal of  incumbent
directors.  In addition,  the Company's  certificate of incorporation and bylaws
have certain  provisions that have the same effect.  These provisions may have a
negative  impact on the price of the Company's  common stock and may  discourage
third-party bidders from making a bid for the Company or may reduce any premiums
paid to stockholders for their common stock.


                                Intellicom Risks

If Intellicom Fails to Manage its Expanding Business Effectively,  its Business,
Financial Condition and Prospects could be Adversely Affected


Intellicom's  growth  and  expected  growth  is likely  to  continue  to place a
significant   strain  on  its  resources.   To  exploit  fully  the  market  for
Intellicom's  products and services,  Intellicom  must rapidly execute its sales
strategy while managing anticipated growth through the use of effective planning
and  operating  procedures.  In addition,  Intellicom  must develop its customer
service and  network  operations  centers.  To manage  Intellicom's  anticipated
growth, it must, among other things:
<PAGE>

o    Continue to develop and improve  Intellicom's  operational,  financial  and
     management  information systems as well as its customer service and network
     operations centers;
o    Hire and train additional qualified personnel;
o    Continue to expand and upgrade core technologies; and
o    Effectively  establish  and  manage  multiple  relationships  with  various
     customers, suppliers and other third parties.


Consequently,  such expansion  could place a significant  strain on Intellicom's
services and support  operations,  sales and administrative  personnel and other
resources.  Intellicom may, in the future, also experience  difficulties meeting
demand for its products and services. Intellicom cannot assure that its systems,
procedures  or  controls  will be adequate  to support  its  operations  or that
management  will be able to  exploit  fully  the  market  for its  products  and
services.  Intellicom's  failure  to  manage  growth  effectively  could  have a
material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  business,  financial  condition and
prospects.

Intellicom  may  Fail if its  Industry  as a Whole  Fails  or its  Products  and
Services do not Gain Commercial Acceptance

It has become  feasible to offer Internet  services using  satellites on a broad
scale only recently. There is no proven commercial acceptance of satellite-based
Internet services and none of the companies offering such services are currently
profitable.  It is currently very difficult to predict  whether these  companies
will become viable.  The failure of the broadband  Internet services industry to
evolve  in the  manner in which it is  currently  contemplated  could  adversely
affect the Company's business, financial condition and prospects.

The success of Intellicom  will depend upon the  willingness of new and existing
subscribers to pay the monthly fees and  installation  costs associated with the
service and to purchase or lease the equipment necessary to access the Internet.
Accordingly, the Company cannot predict whether Intellicom's pricing models will
be viable,  whether  demand for  Intellicom's  services will  materialize at the
prices they expect to charge,  or whether  current or future pricing levels will
be sustainable. If Intellicom does not achieve or sustain such pricing levels or
if their  services do not achieve or sustain broad market  acceptance,  then the
Company's  business,  financial  condition,  and  prospects  will be  materially
adversely affected.

An Interruption  in the Supply of Products and Services that Intellicom  Obtains
from Third Parties could cause a Decline in Sales of Intellicom Services

In  designing,   developing  and  supporting   Intellicom's  Internet  services,
Intellicom relies extensively on third parties. In particular, Intellicom relies
on satellite  providers,  satellite  dish  manufacturers  and Internet  hardware
manufacturers  and  systems  integrators  to  help  build  its  networks.  These
suppliers may experience  difficulty in supplying  Intellicom  with products and
services  sufficient  to meet the needs of  Intellicom  or they may terminate or
fail to renew  contracts for supplying these products and services to Intellicom
on terms that it finds acceptable. Any significant interruption in the supply of
any of these products or services could cause a decline in sales of Intellicom's
services.

Intellicom  Derives  a  Significant  Portion  of  its  Revenues  from  Providing
Equipment and Internet  Services to a Limited Number of Customers which Presents
Credit Risks and could cause Increased Expenses or Losses of Future Revenue

For the year ended September 30, 2000, sales to Intellicom's  largest  customer,
Tricom, S.A., accounted for approximately 82% of Intellicom's net revenue and as
of September 30, 2000,  Tricom accounted for  approximately  92% of Intellicom's
total accounts  receivable.  Intellicom expects that a small number of customers
will  continue  to account  for a  significant  portion of its  revenue  for the
foreseeable  future. If any one of Intellicom's  customers,  especially  Tricom,
discontinues  its   relationship  for  any  reason,   Intellicom  may  suffer  a
significant reduction to its future revenue and may incur significant losses.

Intellicom  Depends on  Third-Party  Carriers to Maintain  its  Networks and any
Interruption  of its  Operations  due to the Failure to Maintain  such  Networks
would  have a  Material  Adverse  Effect on the  Company's  Business,  Financial
Condition and Prospects

Intellicom's success will depend upon the capacity,  reliability and security of
the network  used to carry data  between its  subscribers  and the  Internet.  A
portion  of the  network  used by  Intellicom,  is owned by third  parties,  and
accordingly  Intellicom  has  no  control  over  its  quality  and  maintenance.
Currently,  Intellicom has transit  agreements  with  MCIWorldCom,  Sprint,  and
others to support the exchange of traffic between its network operations centers
and the Internet.  In addition,  Intellicom  has  agreements  with SatMex and GE
Americom for satellite  transponder  space. The failure of any other link in the
delivery chain resulting in an interruption  of  Intellicom's  operations  would
have a material adverse effect on the Company's  business,  financial  condition
and prospects.
<PAGE>

Intellicom's Services may be Subject to Downward Pricing Pressures,  which would
Negatively Impact its Financial Results

The market for  Internet  access in the U.S.  is  subject  to  downward  pricing
pressure  caused by a number of factors,  including  increased  competition  and
technological  advances.  Pricing  pressures  outside of the U.S. in the markets
Intellicom  serves may develop as  international  Internet  access and  services
become more  available.  To operate,  Intellicom has certain costs,  such as its
lease of  satellite  transmission  capacity,  which  are  relatively  fixed  and
generally not susceptible to downward pricing pressure. As a result,  Intellicom
has little flexibility in lowering the price for its services.  If Intellicom is
affected by downward pricing pressure,  it cannot assure that it will be able to
offer Internet services at prices that are competitive or profitable.

Intellicom has a Lengthy and Complex Sales Cycle, which may Require it to Commit
Significant Resources Prior to Receiving Revenues

Intellicom targets large enterprises as ideal customers. Because the purchase of
Intellicom's products and services is a significant  investment for its customer
base, Intellicom's customers generally take a long time to evaluate Intellicom's
products  and  services.  Intellicom  expects  that most of its  customers  will
evaluate its products and services in a process  involving  multiple  people and
departments.  In addition,  Intellicom's  customers may have concerns  about the
introduction or announcement of new products, services and technologies, whether
by  Intellicom  or by  others,  as well  as  requests  for  product  or  service
enhancements.  Accordingly,  Intellicom  has and  expects to  continue to expend
significant  resources  educating  prospective  customers  about  the  uses  and
benefits of its services.  Intellicom's limited historical  experience indicates
that its sales cycle can range from three  months to nine  months,  although the
cycle could be longer due to significant delays over which Intellicom has little
or no control, such as the budgeting and approval process of its customers. As a
result of this long sales cycle,  Intellicom  may take a  substantial  amount of
time to generate revenue from sales efforts.  In addition,  any delay in selling
Intellicom's  products and  services  could lead  prospective  customers to find
alternatives  from a  competitor  or to develop an in-house  solution.  Further,
Intellicom  may spend a  significant  amount  of time and  money on a  potential
customer that ultimately does not purchase its services.


Intellicom's  Business will Suffer and its Financial Results will Deteriorate if
it does not Continue to Expand its Customer Base


Intellicom's  success depends  primarily on the growth of its customer base, the
retention  of its  current  customers  and its  ability  to expand the number of
Internet  services it offers to its  customers  so that revenue per customer and
overall  revenue  increase.  If  Intellicom is unable to maintain and expand its
customer  base its business  and  financial  results  will suffer.  Intellicom's
ability to attract new  customers  and,  to a lesser  degree,  maintain  current
customers,  as well as its ability to increase the amount of revenue it receives
from each customer, depends on a variety of factors, including:


o    Continued growth in demand by international ISPs and corporate  enterprises
     for Internet backbone connectivity;
o    Intellicom's ability to provide adequate bandwidth to all of its customers;
o    Intellicom's ability to provide additional services across its network;
o    Intellicom's ability to broadcast content around the world;
o    The success in Intellicom's development and management of its strategic and
     business relationships;
o    Intellicom's success in establishing and maintaining business relationships
     with  content   aggregators,   Internet  backbone  operators  and  regional
     satellite  owners;  and
o    The reliability and cost-effectiveness of Intellicom's services.

If   Intellicom   is  unable  to   Maintain,   Expand  and  Adapt  its   Network
Infrastructure, the Demand for its Services may Decrease


Intellicom  must  continue  to expand and adapt its network as the number of its
international  customers grow, as users place increasing demands on its network,
and as other requirements  change. As Intellicom grows its customer base, it may
not be  able to  provide  its  customers  with  the  increasing  levels  of data
transmission  capacity  that they may require  for a number of reasons,  such as
Intellicom's possible inability to raise the funds needed to develop the network
infrastructure  to  maintain  adequate  transmission  speeds  and  the  lack  of
additional  network  availability  from  third-party  suppliers of satellite and
fiber  optic cable  transmission  capacity.  Intellicom's  failure to achieve or
maintain high capacity  transmissions could significantly  reduce demand for its
services, decreasing its revenue and harming its business and financial results.
<PAGE>

If Intellicom Fails to Accurately Predict its Satellite  Bandwidth  Requirements
and Effectively  Manage its Fixed Costs,  the Company's  Operating  Results will
Suffer

If  Intellicom  does  not  obtain  adequate  satellite   bandwidth  capacity  on
acceptable terms and realize  corresponding  customer volume for this bandwidth,
it is unlikely that  Intellicom will achieve  positive gross profit.  Intellicom
purchases  this  bandwidth  capacity  based on its  projected  future needs on a
fixed-price  basis in  advance  of the sale of its  services  that  utilize  the
bandwidth. Substantially all of this bandwidth capacity can be purchased only on
a long-term  basis.  Intellicom  sells its services on the basis of actual usage
and total bandwidth capacity used by its customers,  which changes from month to
month and is  difficult  to  predict.  If  Intellicom's  sales fail to match its
projections,  it could be subject to periods of excess satellite capacity, which
could  seriously harm its business.  As a result,  Intellicom must obtain enough
bandwidth to meet its projected  customer  needs,  and  Intellicom  must realize
adequate volume from its customers to support and justify the bandwidth capacity
and expense. If demand from existing or potential customers exceeds Intellicom's
capacity,  the quality of its service may suffer or Intellicom  may be unable to
capitalize on potential business opportunities.  If that happens, Intellicom may
lose existing or potential customers and its operating results would suffer.


Problems  Associated  with  Operating in  International  Markets  could  Prevent
Intellicom from Achieving or Sustaining its Intended Growth

The  majority  of  Intellicom's  business  will be  derived  from ISPs and other
businesses  located in  foreign  countries.  Intellicom's  failure to manage its
international  operations  effectively  would  limit  the  future  growth of its
business.   Intellicom   faces   certain   inherent   challenges  in  conducting
international operations, such as:

o    Changes in  telecommunications  regulatory  requirements  or trade barriers
     restricting  Intellicom's  ability  to  deliver  Internet  services  to its
     customers;
o    The  imposition  of   unanticipated   fees,  taxes  and  costs  by  foreign
     governments, which could significantly increase Intellicom's costs;
o    Political   and  economic   instability   disrupting   the   operations  of
     Intellicom's customers;
o    Protectionist  laws  and  business  practices  favoring  local  competition
     potentially giving unequal bargaining leverage to competitors; and
o    Currency  fluctuations  increasing the cost of Intellicom's services to its
     international customers.

Intellicom's  failure to  adequately  respond to any of these  challenges  could
seriously harm its operations and prospects.


Failure to Recruit and Retain Key Management, Technical and Sales Personnel will
Adversely Affect Intellicom's Ability to Operate

Intellicom's  success depends, in large part, on Intellicom's ability to attract
and retain qualified technical,  marketing, sales and management personnel. With
the expansion of Intellicom's  services,  it is currently seeking new employees.
However, competition for such personnel is intense in Intellicom's business, and
thus,  Intellicom may be unsuccessful in its hiring efforts.  If Intellicom does
not attract and retain such  personnel,  it may not be able to grow its business
and may experience  disruptions in operations.  The failure to attract or retain
other key  employees  could  have a  material  adverse  effect on the  Company's
business, financial condition and prospects.



New Members of the Company's Management Team will have to Effectively  Integrate
to Implement its Strategies

The Company depends on the ability of its management team to effectively execute
its strategies.  Because  certain members of the Company's  management team have
worked together for a short period of time, the Company needs to integrate these
officers into its operations. To integrate into the Company's operations,  these
individuals must spend a significant  amount of time learning its business model
and  management   system,  in  addition  to  performing  their  regular  duties.
Accordingly, the integration of new personnel has and will continue to result in
some disruption to the Company's ongoing operations. If we fail to complete this
integration in an efficient manner, the Company's business and financial results
will suffer.


Any Damage or Failure that Causes Interruptions in Intellicom's Operations could
have  a  Material  Adverse  Effect  on its  Business,  Financial  Condition  and
Prospects

Intellicom's  operations  are  dependent  upon its  ability  to support a highly
complex network and avoid damages from fires, earthquakes, floods, power losses,
telecommunications and satellite failures,  network software flaws, transmission
cable cuts and similar  events.  The occurrence of any one of these events could
cause  interruptions  in the services  Intellicom  provides.  In  addition,  the
failure of an incumbent  local  exchange  carrier or other  service  provider to
provide  the  communications  capacity  Intellicom  requires,  as a result  of a
natural  disaster,  operational  disruption  or any other  reason,  could  cause
interruptions in the services  Intellicom  provides.  Any damage or failure that
causes  interruptions  in Intellicom's  operations could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business, financial condition and prospects.
<PAGE>

Intellicom may be Vulnerable to Unauthorized Access,  Computer Viruses and Other
Disruptive Problems, which may Result in Intellicom's Liability to its Customers
and may Deter Others from Becoming Customers

While Intellicom has taken substantial  security  measures,  its networks may be
vulnerable  to  unauthorized  access,  computer  viruses  and  other  disruptive
problems.   Internet  service   providers  and  online  service  providers  have
experienced  in the past,  and may  experience in the future,  interruptions  in
service as a result of the accidental or intentional  actions of Internet users.
Unauthorized  access by  current  and  former  employees  or others  could  also
potentially  jeopardize  the  security  of  confidential  information  stored in
Intellicom's computer systems and those of its customers. Such events may result
in  Intellicom's  liability to its  customers and may deter others from becoming
customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
financial condition and prospects. Although Intellicom intends to continue using
industry-standard security measures, such measures have been circumvented in the
past,  and  Intellicom  cannot  assure  you  that  these  measures  will  not be
circumvented in the future.  Eliminating  computer viruses and alleviating other
security problems may cause Intellicom's subscribers delays due to interruptions
or cessation of service. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, financial condition and prospects.

Intellicom  may Face  Potential  Liability for  Defamatory or Indecent  Content,
which may cause it to Modify the way it Provides Services

Any  imposition  of  liability  on  Intellicom  for  information  carried on the
Internet  could  have a  material  adverse  effect  on the  Company's  business,
financial  condition  and  prospects.  The law relating to liability of Internet
service  providers and online service  providers for  information  carried on or
disseminated through their networks is currently unsettled. A number of lawsuits
have  sought to  impose  such  liability  for  defamatory  speech  and  indecent
materials.   Congress  has   attempted  to  impose  such   liability,   in  some
circumstances, for transmission of obscene or indecent materials. In one case, a
court  has held  that an  online  service  provider  could be found  liable  for
defamatory  matter provided through its service,  on the ground that the service
provider  exercised  active  editorial  control  over  postings to its  service.
Because of the  potential  liability for  materials  carried on or  disseminated
through  Intellicom's  systems,  the Company may have to  implement  measures to
reduce its exposure to such liability. Such measures may require the expenditure
of substantial resources or the discontinuation of certain products or services.

Intellicom may face Potential Liability for Information Retrieved and Replicated
that may not be Covered by its Insurance

Intellicom's  liability  insurance may not cover  potential  claims  relating to
providing  Internet services or may not be adequate to indemnify  Intellicom for
all liability that may be imposed.  Any liability not covered by insurance or in
excess  of  insurance   coverage  could  have  a  material   adverse  effect  on
Intellicom's  business,  financial condition and prospects.  Because subscribers
download and redistribute  materials that are cached or replicated by Intellicom
in  connection  with  its  Internet  services,  claims  could  be  made  against
Intellicom under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, negligence, copyright
or trademark infringement,  or other theories based on the nature and content of
such  materials.  These types of claims have been  successfully  brought against
online  service  providers.  In  particular,  copyright and  trademark  laws are
evolving both domestically and internationally,  and it is uncertain how broadly
the rights provided under these laws will be applied to online environments.  It
is impossible for  Intellicom to determine who the potential  rights holders may
be with respect to all materials available through its services.  In addition, a
number of third-party  owners of patents have claimed to hold patents that cover
various forms of online transactions or online technology.  As with other online
service providers, patent claims could be asserted against Intellicom based upon
its services or technologies.

Third  Parties  may  Claim  that   Intellicom's   Product   Infringes  on  their
Intellectual Property, which could Result in Significant Expenses for Litigation
or for Developing or Licensing New Technology

The  Internet  and  telecommunications   industries  are  characterized  by  the
existence  of a large  number  of  patents  and  frequent  litigation  based  on
allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual  property
rights.  Third  parties may assert  claims that  Intellicom's  current or future
products,  networks or ways of doing  business  infringe  on their  intellectual
property.  Intellicom  cannot  predict  whether  third parties will assert these
types of claims  against  Intellicom  or against  the  licensors  of  technology
licensed to Intellicom.  Intellicom cannot predict whether such assertions would
harm its business.
<PAGE>

If Intellicom is required to defend against these types of claims,  whether they
are with or without  merit or whether  they are  resolved in favor of or against
Intellicom  or its  licensors,  it may face costly  litigation  and diversion of
management's attention and resources. As a result of these disputes,  Intellicom
may have to develop or otherwise obtain non-infringing  technology or enter into
licensing agreements, any of which may be costly.

A Perceived or Actual  Failure by  Intellicom  to Achieve or Maintain High Speed
Data Transmission  could  Significantly  Reduce Consumer Demand for its Services
and  have a  Material  Adverse  Effect  on  the  Company's  Business,  Financial
Condition and Prospects


Because  Intellicom has only been  operational for a relatively  short period of
time  its  ability  to  connect  and  manage  a  substantial  number  of  online
subscribers  at high  transmission  speeds is  unknown.  Intellicom  faces risks
related  to  its  ability  to  scale  up to  expected  subscriber  levels  while
maintaining superior performance. The actual downstream data transmission speeds
for each  customer  may be  slower  and will  depend on a  variety  of  factors,
including:

o    Actual speed provisioned for the customer's equipment;
o    Quality of the server used to deliver content;
o    Overall Internet traffic congestion;
o    The number of active customers on the network at the same time; and
o    For  Intellicom,  the  service  quality  of the  networks  of  Intellicom's
     customers.

The actual data delivery speeds realized by customers may be significantly lower
than peak data  transmission  speeds and will vary  depending on the  customer's
hardware, operating system and software configurations. Intellicom cannot assure
you that it will be able  achieve or  maintain  data  transmission  speeds  high
enough to attract and retain its planned numbers of  subscribers,  especially as
the number of subscribers to its services  grows.  Consequently,  a perceived or
actual failure by Intellicom to achieve or maintain high speed data transmission
could  significantly  reduce  consumer  demand  for  their  services  and have a
material  adverse  effect on the  Company's  business,  financial  condition and
prospects.

Intellicom  may not be able to keep Pace with  Rapid  Technological  Changes  or
Emerging   Industry   Standards  that  could  make  its  Services  Obsolete  and
Unmarketable

Intellicom's services may become less useful to its customers if it is unable to
respond  to  technological  advances  that  shape the  Internet  or  alternative
technologies   or  services  become   available  to  them.   Keeping  pace  with
technological   advances  in  Intellicom's   industry  may  require  substantial
expenditures  and lead time.  In  addition,  future  advances in  technology  or
fundamental changes in the way Internet access or other Internet services can be
delivered may render  Intellicom's  services  obsolete or less cost competitive.
Intellicom may not be able to adequately respond to or incorporate technological
advances on a cost-effective or timely basis into its businesses.


The Internet  Industry Operates in an Uncertain Legal Landscape and the Adoption
or  Interpretation  of Future or Existing   Regulations  could Harm Intellicom's
Business

The Internet and the markets in which  Intellicom  offers its Internet  services
are relatively new. Many of the laws and regulations that govern  Intellicom and
the Internet have yet to be  interpreted  or enforced.  It is likely that in the
future many new laws will take effect that will  regulate  the  Internet and the
markets in which the Company  operates.  The  applicability  to the  Internet of
existing laws governing issues such as property ownership,  copyrights and other
intellectual property issues,  taxation and tariffs, libel, consumer protection,
obscenity,  pricing and personal  privacy is uncertain.  Current and future laws
and regulations may:



o    Decrease the growth of the Internet;
o    Regulate  our  customers in ways that harm our ability to sell our services
     to them;
o    Decrease demand for our services; and
o    Impose taxes or other costly requirements or otherwise increase the cost of
     doing business.

Thus,  the adoption  and  interpretation  of any future or existing  regulations
could seriously harm Intellicom's business.

<PAGE>


The Legal  Environment  in which  Intellicom  Operates is  Uncertain  and Claims
Against  Intellicom  and other Legal  Uncertainties  could cause its Business to
Suffer

Because most of Intellicom's  business is conducted outside the U.S., Intellicom
is  susceptible  to the  governmental  regulations  and legal  uncertainties  of
foreign countries.  In general, the laws of countries outside the U.S. governing
the  Internet  and  Internet  services,  to the extent  they exist at all,  vary
widely,  are  unclear  and in flux and have  failed  to keep pace with the rapid
advancements in Internet  technology and the expanding  range of  Internet-based
services being offered.  Partly because of these problems, and Intellicom's view
that local  regulatory  compliance  is a greater  issue of  concern  for our ISP
customers,  Intellicom  has not,  and  currently  does not intend to,  determine
conclusively whether it complies with the requirements of any particular foreign
country.


Any one or more of the countries where Intellicom  conducts business may require
that Intellicom  qualifies to do business in that particular  country, is liable
for  certain  taxes  or  tariffs,  is  otherwise  subject  to  regulation  or is
prohibited  from  conducting  its  business  in  that  foreign  country.   Thus,
Intellicom  cannot  assure that it is  currently  in  compliance  with the legal
requirements of any particular  country or all of the countries outside the U.S.
in which it conducts  business,  that Intellicom will be able to comply with any
such  requirements or that the requirements  will not change in a way that would
render the receipt of its services in a particular country illegal. Intellicom's
failure to comply  with  foreign  laws and  regulations  could  cause it to lose
customers,  restrict it from entering  profitable markets and seriously harm its
business.


Intellicom's   customers   also  face  many  of  the   governmental   and  legal
uncertainties  that  Intellicom  faces and  currently  are, or in the future may
become,  subject to many of the same  requirements  to which  Intellicom  may be
subject.  Intellicom  makes no effort to determine  whether its customers comply
with applicable  regulations.  The failure of  Intellicom's  customers to comply
with  applicable  laws  and  regulations  could  cause it to lose  customers  or
otherwise seriously harm its business.

                                ISP Channel Risks

The Company may face Unexpected  Liabilities in Winding Down the Business of ISP
Channel

The Company has  determined  that it is in the best interests of the Company and
its  shareholders  to wind down the business of ISP  Channel.  While the Company
expects the process of winding down ISP Channel to be substantially  complete by
January 31, 2001,  there can be no assurances that it will be able to do so. The
Company  expects  to  incur  significant  costs  related  to  terminating  cable
affiliate  and other  contracts,  reducing  the  workforce  and  recovering  and
disposing of deployed assets. In addition,  the Company may face litigation from
customers,  cable  affiliates  and  others  with  respect to such  winding  down
activities.

                                  Aerzone Risks

The Company may face  Unexpected  Liabilities  in Winding  Down the  Business of
Aerzone

The Company has  determined  that it is in the best interests of the Company and
its shareholders to wind down the business of Aerzone. While the Company expects
the  process of winding  down  Aerzone  (with the  exception  of the sale of the
Laptop Lane business) to be  substantially  complete by January 31, 2001,  there
can be no assurances that it will be able to do so. The Company expects to incur
costs related to terminating airport and other contracts, reducing the workforce
and recovering and disposing of deployed  assets.  In addition,  the Company may
face litigation with respect to such winding down activities.


Further,  the Company may be unsuccessful in its efforts to sell the Laptop Lane
business.  There can be no assurance that a buyer will be found at an acceptable
price  or that  the  business  can be sold for any  particular  amount  of cash,
securities or other consideration.

<PAGE>



Item 2.  Properties


The Company maintains office space for its corporate  headquarters and Aerzone's
headquarters at 650 Townsend Street,  San Francisco,  California,  in a state of
the art facility of  approximately  35,100  square feet under lease through July
2005. Approximately 18,300 square feet of this facility were used by Aerzone.

Additionally,  Aerzone  leases a total of  approximately  17,000  square feet of
office space in Seattle and Bellevue,  Washington. These leases expire in August
2005 and June 2002, respectively.

Intellicom leases a total of approximately 16,700 square feet of office space in
Livermore,  California,  which  expires in December  2004,  approximately  3,770
square feet of office  space for its call center in Eau Claire,  Wisconsin,  and
approximately 2,144 square feet of office space in Miami,  Florida for its sales
office.

Additionally,  the Company  has leases on  approximately  49,450  square feet of
office space in Mountain View, California,  that were used by ISP Channel. These
leases  expire in July 2003 and July 2005.  ISP Channel  also  leases  space for
sales  offices  in  Chicago,   Illinois;  Denver,  Colorado;  and  Los  Angeles,
California.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

The Company has no material pending litigation.

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None



<PAGE>


                                     PART II

Item 5.  Market  for the  Registrant's  Common  Equity and  Related  Stockholder
Matters

Since April 14, 1999,  the Company's  common stock has been listed and traded on
the NASDAQ National  Market  ("NASDAQ")  under the symbol "SOFN".  Prior to that
date,  the  Company's  common stock was traded and listed on the American  Stock
Exchange  ("AMEX")  under the symbol "SOF".  The per share range of high and low
sale prices for the  Company's  common  stock as reported on NASDAQ or AMEX,  as
applicable,  for each three month period over the two years ended  September 30,
2000 are as follows:

                                    High Low

        Year Ended September 30, 1999:
           December 31, 1998......................    $    21       $     5 9/16
           March 31, 1999.........................         40 3/8        14 1/2
           June 30, 1999..........................         69 1/2        19 1/8
           September 30, 1999.....................         37            16 5/8

        Year Ended September 30, 2000:

           December 31, 1999......................    $    45       $    21 5/8
           March 31, 2000.........................         50 1/4        22
           June 30, 2000..........................         29 9/16        8 3/8
           September 30, 2000.....................         11 3/4         4 9/16


As of November 30, 2000 there were 431 record  holders of the  Company's  common
stock. The closing price for the Company's common stock on November 30, 2000 was
$2 1/32.

The Company has not declared  dividends on its common stock and has no intention
of declaring dividends in the foreseeable  future.  Other than restrictions that
may be part of various  debt  instruments,  the Company  does not have any legal
restriction on paying dividends.

Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities

In  October  1994,  the  Company  issued   $1,250,000  of  its  10%  Convertible
Subordinated  Notes  due  October  31,  1999 in a private  placement  transacted
without the use of an underwriter. The notes were issued in association with the
Company's purchase of Communicate Direct,  Inc. ("CDI").  The proceeds were used
to perfect the CDI acquisition  and for general  corporate  purposes.  These 10%
notes  have a  conversion  price of $4.10.  These  securities  were  issued in a
non-public  offering  pursuant to transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  "Securities  Act").  For the year ended
September 30, 1996, the Company  issued 231,708 common stock shares  pursuant to
the  conversion  of $950,000 of these  convertible  notes by a single  holder of
these notes.  For the year ended  September 30, 1997,  the Company issued 24,390
common stock shares pursuant to the conversion of $100,000 of these  convertible
notes by a single holder of these notes.  For the year ended September 30, 1998,
the Company issued 48,780 common stock shares  pursuant to the conversion of the
remaining  $200,000  of these  convertible  notes by the  final  holder of these
notes.

In  December  1994,  the  Company  issued   $2,189,000  of  its  9%  Convertible
Subordinated  Notes due  December  31,  1998 in a private  placement  transacted
without the use of an underwriter.  The proceeds were used for general corporate
purposes. These 9% notes have a conversion price of $5.00. These securities were
issued in a non-public  offering  pursuant to transactions  exempt under Section
4(2) of the Securities  Act. For the year ended  September 30, 1996, the Company
issued 422,898  common stock shares  pursuant to the conversion of $2,114,000 of
these convertible notes by seventeen  individual holders of these notes. For the
year ended  September  30, 1997,  the Company  issued 10,000 common stock shares
pursuant to the  conversion  of $50,000 of these  convertible  notes by a single
holder of these notes. For the year ended September 30, 1998, the Company issued
5,000 common stock shares pursuant to the conversion of the remaining $25,000 of
these convertible notes by the final holder of these notes.

On September 15, 1995, in association  with the  acquisition of MTC, the Company
assumed  $1,800,000  of  6%  Convertible  Subordinated  Secured  Debentures  due
February 28, 2002.  These 6% debentures  are subject to redemption at the option
of the Company at face value,  provided however,  that the Company issues common
share purchase warrants to purchase the same number of shares as would have been
issued if the debentures were converted.  These  debentures are convertible into
the Company's common stock at $8.10 per share. These securities were issued in a
non-public  offering  pursuant to transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the

<PAGE>

Securities  Act.  For the year ended  September  30,  1996,  the Company  issued
125,925  common stock shares  pursuant to the  conversion of $1,020,000 of these
convertible debentures by ten separate holders of these debentures. For the year
ended  September  30, 1998,  the Company  issued  7,407 shares of the  Company's
common  stock  pursuant  to the  conversion  of  $60,000  of  these  convertible
debentures by a single holder of these debentures.  For the year ended September
30,  1999,  the  Company  issued  7,407  common  stock  shares  pursuant  to the
conversion  of $60,000 of these  convertible  debentures  by a single  holder of
these debentures. Subsequently, during November 2000, the remaining principal of
$660,000 and accrued interest was paid.


On September  15, 1995,  the Company  issued  $2,856,000  of its 9%  Convertible
Subordinated   Debentures  due  September  15,  2000  in  conjunction  with  the
acquisition of MTC. The  debentures  were issued to the  shareholders  of MTC as
partial consideration for the acquisition. These 9% debentures have a conversion
price of $6.75.  These securities were issued in a non-public  offering pursuant
to  transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities  Act. For the year
ended September 30, 1997, the Company issued 35,104 common stock shares pursuant
to the  conversion of $237,000 of convertible  debt by four separate  holders of
these  debentures.  For the year ended  September 30, 1998,  the Company  issued
123,377  common  stock  shares   pursuant  to  the  conversion  of  $833,000  of
convertible  debt by seven separate  holders of these  debentures.  For the year
ended September 30, 1999, the Company issued 63,719 common stock shares pursuant
to the  conversion of $430,000 of convertible  debt by five separate  holders of
these  debentures.  For the year ended  September 30, 2000,  the Company  issued
1,467 common stock shares  pursuant to the  conversion of $63,000 of convertible
debt by 2 separate  holders of these  debentures.  On September  15,  2000,  the
Company paid the remaining  $1,294,000 of convertible  debt and accrued interest
in cash.

On January 2, 1998, the Company  issued  $1,444,000  principal  amount of its 5%
Convertible Subordinated Debentures due September 30, 2002 to Mr. R.C.W. Mauran,
who was at the time of the transaction a beneficial owner of more than 5% of the
Company's common stock, in exchange for the assignment to the Company of certain
equipment  leases and other  consideration,  all of which have been  assimilated
into the business of  Micrographic  Technology  Corporation.  The debentures are
convertible  into the Company's  common stock at $8.25 per share after  December
31, 1998.  These  securities  were issued in a non-public  offering  pursuant to
transactions exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.


Since  December  31,  1997,  the  Company  has  issued  three  series  of its 5%
convertible  preferred stock  denominated  Series A Convertible  Preferred Stock
(the "Series A Preferred  Stock"),  Series B  Convertible  Preferred  Stock (the
"Series B  Preferred  Stock")  and  Series C  Convertible  Preferred  Stock (the
"Series C Preferred  Stock"),  together (the "Preferred  Stock").  In connection
with the  issuance  of the 5%  Preferred  Stock,  the  Company  has also  issued
warrants to purchase its common stock (the "Preferred Warrants").  Proceeds from
the sale of the Preferred Stock and the Preferred Warrants were used to fund the
expenditures  incurred in the  expansion  of the  Company's  Internet  business,
particularly the ISP Channel service, and for general corporate purposes.


On December 31, 1997, the Company  issued to RGC  International  Investors,  LDC
("RGC"),  5,000 shares of its Series A Preferred  Stock and warrants to purchase
150,000 common stock shares (the "Series A Warrants") for an aggregate  purchase
price of  $5,000,000;  $435,000 of the purchase  price has been allocated to the
value of the Series A Warrants.  The conversion  price of the Series A Preferred
Stock was equal to the  lower of $8.28  per  share  and the  lowest  consecutive
two-day  average  closing  price of the common stock  during the 20-day  trading
period immediately prior to such conversion.  The sale was arranged by Shoreline
Pacific Institutional Finance ("SPIF"),  the Institutional Division of Financial
West Group,  which  received a fee of $250,000 plus warrants to purchase  20,000
common stock shares,  which are exercisable at $6.625 and expire on December 31,
2000. The Series A Preferred Stock was issued in a nonpublic  offering  pursuant
to  transactions  exempt under  Section 4(2) of the  Securities  Act of 1933, as
amended (the  "Securities  Act").  For the year ended  September  30, 1998,  RGC
received  100.78 shares of Series A Preferred  Stock as dividends  paid in kind.
For the year ended  September 30, 1998,  the Company issued 299,946 common stock
shares  pursuant to the  conversion  of 2,000 Series A Preferred  Stock  shares,
including accrued dividends, at a price of $6.6875 per share. For the year ended
September 30, 1999, the Company  issued 413,018 common stock shares  pursuant to
the conversion of the remaining  3,100.78  Series A Preferred  Stock shares at a
price of $7.5625 per share.


On May 28,  1998,  the Company  issued to RGC and  Shoreline  Associates  I, LLC
("Shoreline"),  9,000 and 1,000 shares, respectively,  of its Series B Preferred
Stock and  warrants to  purchase  180,000 and 20,000  shares,  respectively,  of
common  stock (the  "Series B  Warrants")  for an  aggregate  purchase  price of
$10,000,000;  $900,000 of the purchase  price has been allocated to the value of
the Series B Warrants.  Prior to February 28, 1999, the conversion  price of the
Series B  Preferred  Stock  was  equal to  $13.20  per  share.  Thereafter,  the
conversion  price of the  Series B  Preferred  Stock  was  equal to the lower of
$13.20 per share and the lowest  five-day  average  closing  price of the common
stock during the 20-day trading period immediately prior to such conversion. The
sale was arranged by SPIF,  which  received a fee of $500,000  plus  warrants to
purchase 50,000 common stock shares,  which are exercisable at $11.00 and expire
on May 28, 2002. The Series B Preferred Stock was issued in a nonpublic offering

<PAGE>

pursuant to  transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities  Act. For
the year ended  September 30, 1998,  RGC and Shoreline  received  112.5 and 12.5
shares, respectively, of Series B Preferred Stock as dividends paid in kind. For
the year ended  September 30, 1999, RGC and Shoreline  received 113.90 and 12.66
shares, respectively, of Series B Preferred Stock as dividends paid in kind. For
the year ended  September  30, 1999,  the Company  issued  782,352  common stock
shares  pursuant to the  conversion  of all 10,251.56  Series B Preferred  Stock
shares at a price of $13.20 per share.

On August  31,  1998,  the  Company  issued to RGC 7,500  shares of its Series C
Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase 93,750 common stock shares (the "Series
C Warrants")  for an aggregate  purchase  price of  $7,500,000;  $277,000 of the
purchase price has been  allocated to the value of the Series C Warrants.  Prior
to May 31, 1999, the conversion  price of the Series C Preferred Stock was equal
to $9.00 per share.  Thereafter,  the conversion price of the Series C Preferred
Stock was equal to the lower of $9.00 per share and the lowest five-day  average
closing price of the common stock during the 30-day trading  period  immediately
prior to such conversion. The sale was arranged by SPIF, which received a fee of
$375,000  plus  warrants to  purchase  26,250  common  stock  shares,  which are
exercisable at $7.50 and expire on August 31, 2002. The Series C Preferred Stock
was issued in a nonpublic offering pursuant to transactions exempt under Section
4(2) of the Securities  Act. For the year ended September 30, 1998, RGC received
31.25 shares of Series C Preferred Stock as dividends paid in kind. For the year
ended  September 30, 1999, RGC received 94.14 shares of Series C Preferred Stock
as dividends  paid in kind.  For the year ended  September 30, 1999, the Company
issued  909,148  common stock shares  pursuant to the conversion of all 7,625.39
Series C Preferred Stock shares at a price of $9.00 per share.

Each series of the Preferred Stock had similar rights and  privileges,  and each
share of the  Preferred  Stock  has a par  value of $0.10  and a face  amount of
$1,000.  The  Preferred  Stock was  convertible  into the number of common stock
shares  determined  by  dividing  the face amount of the  Preferred  Stock being
converted by the applicable conversion price. A holder of the Series A Preferred
Stock or the Series B  Preferred  Stock could not convert its Series A Preferred
Stock or Series B Preferred Stock in the event such  conversion  would result in
its  beneficially  owning  more than 4.99% of the  Company's  common  stock (not
including  shares  underlying  the  Series A  Preferred  Stock  or the  Series A
Warrants for the Series A Preferred Stock conversions, or the Series B Preferred
Stock or the Series B Warrants  for the Series B Preferred  Stock  conversions),
but they could  waive this  prohibition  by  providing  the  Company a notice of
election  to  convert at least 61 days prior to such  conversion.  Similarly,  a
holder of the Series C  Preferred  Stock  cannot  convert its Series C Preferred
Stock in the event such conversion would result in beneficially owning more than
4.99% of the Company's common stock (not including shares  underlying the Series
C  Preferred  Stock or the Series C Warrants  for the Series C  Preferred  stock
conversion). Notwithstanding this limitation, the holders of the Preferred Stock
cannot  convert into an aggregate  of more than 19.99% of the  Company's  common
stock without the approval of the Company's  common  stockholders or NASDAQ.  In
addition,  the Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock each cannot
convert into more than 2,000,000 common stock shares.  As of September 30, 1999,
all of  the  Preferred  Stock,  including  dividends  paid-in-kind  and  accrued
interest,  has been  converted  into an  aggregate  of  2,404,464  shares of the
Company's common stock.

On  January  12,  1999,  the  Company  issued   $12,000,000  of  its  9%  Senior
Subordinated  Convertible Notes (the "Notes") due January 1, 2001, to a group of
institutional investors.  These Notes were convertible into the Company's common
stock with an initial  conversion  price of $17.00 per share until July 1, 1999,
and,  thereafter,  at the lower of $17.00  per share  (the  "Initial  Conversion
Price")  and the lowest  five-day  average  closing  bid price of the  Company's
common  stock  during  the  30-day  trading  period  ending one day prior to the
applicable  conversion date (the "Conversion  Price").  In connection with these
Notes,  the Company issued to these investors  warrants to purchase an aggregate
of 300,000 shares of the Company's common stock. These warrants have an exercise
price of $17.00 per share and expire in 2003.  On April 28, 1999, as a result of
the Company's underwritten secondary public offering (the "Secondary Offering"),
and in conjunction  with an anti-dilution  provision  associated with the Notes,
the  Initial  Conversion  Price was  reduced  from  $17.00 to $16.49  per share.
Furthermore,  in order to secure three month lock-up agreements from the holders
of the Notes in conjunction  with the Secondary  Offering,  the Company  entered
into a new  arrangement  with the  holders  of the  Notes to  issue  all  future
interest  payments,  beginning with the three months ended June 30, 1999, in the
form of convertible  notes with  substantially the same form and features as the
original Notes.  Therefore,  the Company issued an additional $549,000 in notes,
representing interest for the six months ended September 30, 1999 (the "Interest
Notes").  The Notes and warrants  were issued in a nonpublic  offering  pursuant
Regulation D under the Securities Act. On October 22, 1999, all of the 9% Senior
Subordinated Convertible Notes, related Interest Notes and accrued interest were
converted into 765,201 shares of the Company's common stock.

On February 9, 1999, a wholly owned  subsidiary  of the Company  merged with and
into  Intelligent   Communications,   Inc.  ("Intellicom"  and  the  "Intellicom
Acquisition").  The purchase price of  $14,869,000  was comprised of: (i) a cash
component of $500,000 (the "Cash Consideration");  (ii) a promissory note in the
amount of $1,000,000  bearing  interest at 7.5% per annum and due one year after
closing (the "First Promissory Note");  (iii) a promissory note in the amount of

<PAGE>

$2,000,000  bearing  interest at 8.5% per annum and due two years after  closing
(the "Second  Promissory  Note",  together with the First  Promissory  Note, the
"Debt  Consideration");  (iv) the  issuance of 500,000  shares of the  Company's
common  stock  (adjustable  upwards  after one year in  certain  circumstances),
valued at $14.938  per share,  for a total  value of  $7,469,000  (the  "Closing
Shares");  (v) additional shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the
first,  second  and third  anniversaries  of the  closing,  valued at a total of
$3,500,000 (the  "Anniversary  Shares",  together with the Closing  Shares,  the
"Equity  Consideration");  and (vi) certain  direct  acquisition  costs totaling
$400,000.  The Debt  Consideration may be partially or wholly converted into the
Company's common stock, under certain circumstances. The conversion price of the
Debt  Consideration  is based upon the average  closing  price of the  Company's
common stock for the 15 days immediately preceding the conversion date. Both the
Debt  Consideration  and the Equity  Consideration  were  issued in a  nonpublic
offering  pursuant to  transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities
Act.  In April  1999,  the Company  paid the First  Promissory  Note and related
interest  in full  with a  combination  of cash and  equity.  The  Company  paid
$832,000 in cash and the  remainder,  after  expenses,  with 6,118  common stock
shares valued at $190,000.  The Intellicom  Acquisition  agreement  requires the
Company to issue $1,500,000 of common stock shares on the first anniversary date
of the  Intellicom  Acquisition. Accordingly,  on February 8, 2000,  the Company
issued  43,314  common stock  shares  valued at  $1,499,000  and paid $1,000 for
fractional shares to the former  shareholders of Intellicom.  Additionally,  the
Intellicom  Acquisition agreement includes a demonstration bonus ("Demonstration
Bonus") of $1,000,000 payable in cash or shares of the Company's common stock at
the Company's option by the first anniversary date of the Intellicom Acquisition
if certain  conditions are met. On February 8, 2000, the opportunity to earn the
Demonstration Bonus had expired, and accordingly the Demonstration Bonus was not
paid or included in the purchase price of Intellicom.

On February 22, 1999, the Company entered into a license  agreement with Inktomi
Corporation ("Inktomi",  the "Inktomi Licensing Agreement") allowing the Company
rights  to  install  certain  Inktomi  caching  technology  into  the  Company's
cable-based Internet network infrastructure. The Inktomi Licensing Agreement was
valued at $4,000,000 for a total of 500 licenses,  of which the first $1,000,000
was paid with 65,843  shares of the  Company's  common  stock and the  remaining
amount payable in cash in eight  quarterly  payments of $375,000.  For the years
ended  September 30, 2000 and 1999,  total  payments  amounted to $1,500,000 and
$1,125,000,  respectively. The Inktomi Licensing Agreement allows the Company to
purchase  up to 500  additional  licenses  during  the first  four  years of the
agreement.  Prepaid license fees at September 30, 2000 and 1999, were $2,602,000
and  $2,101,000,  respectively.  As a result of the  Company  discontinuing  the
operations of ISP Channel,  prepaid  license fees were  reflected in the loss on
disposition of discontinued operations,  net of tax for the year ended September
30, 2000,  and in the net assets  associated  with  discontinued  operations  at
September  30,  1999.  These  common  stock  shares  were  issued in a nonpublic
offering  pursuant to  transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities
Act.

On March 22, 1999,  the Company  issued  warrants to purchase 3,013 common stock
shares  to an  institutional  lender  in  connection  with a  $3,000,000  credit
facility.  The  credit  facility  was  used to fund  certain  capital  equipment
acquisitions. The warrants have an exercise price of $29.875 and expire on March
22,  2003.  These  securities  were issued in a nonpublic  offering  pursuant to
transactions exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.


In  conjunction  with  offering  incentives  to launch the Company's ISP Channel
cable-based  Internet  services,  the  Company  issued  common  stock  to  cable
affiliates in return for the exclusive  rights to provide  Internet  services to
their customers.  During the year ended September 30, 1999 the Company issued an
aggregate of 13,574  common stock  shares  valued at $337,000 to eight  separate
cable  affiliates.  During the year ended  September 30, 2000 the Company issued
35,160 common stock shares valued at $419,000 to two separate cable  affiliates.
In addition, on April 12, 1999 the Company issued 660,000 common stock shares to
an  investor  for  $14,990,000  in  cash  and a  modification  of the  affiliate
agreement between the Company and Teleponce Cable TV, which is controlled by the
investor;  the modification of the affiliate  agreement was valued at $8,925,000
as a cable affiliate launch incentive. Further, on November 4, 1999, the Company
entered into various  definitive  agreements with Mediacom LLC ("Mediacom").  In
exchange  for  signing an  agreement  to launch the ISP  Channel  services,  the
Company  issued a total of 3,500,000  common stock shares to Mediacom,  of which
3,150,000  shares  were  restricted.  The  restrictions  were lifted as Mediacom
launched ISP Channel's  services in Mediacom's cable television  systems.  As of
September  30, 2000 there are 2,100,000  shares  restricted  and  unvalued.  The
unrestricted 1,400,000 shares have been valued at $26,513,000 as cable affiliate
launch incentive. As a result of the Company discontinuing the operations of ISP
Channel, the cable affiliate launch incentive, net of amortization,  was written
off and was reflected in the loss on disposition of discontinued operations, net
of tax for the year ended  September 30, 2000, and in the net assets  associated
with  discontinued  operations at September 30, 1999.  These common stock shares
were  issued in a  nonpublic  offering  pursuant to  transactions  exempt  under
Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.

<PAGE>

On December  13, 1999 the Company  completed a private  placement  of  5,000,000
common  stock  shares  for net  proceeds  of  $128,121,000  to  Pacific  Century
Cyberworks  Limited  ("Pacific  Century"),   and  entitled  Pacific  Century  to
designate two persons for election to the Board of Directors. These common stock
shares were issued in a nonpublic offering pursuant to transactions exempt under
Section 4(2) of the Securities Act

On April 21, 2000, the Company  acquired Laptop Lane Limited  ("Laptop Lane"), a
Washington corporation,  under the purchase method of accounting and the results
of Laptop Lane are included in the consolidated  financial  statements since the
date of  acquisition.  Laptop  Lane is a leading  provider  of  business  center
services in airports.  The Company paid approximately  $21,559,000 consisting of
(i) 972,266  common stock shares of the Company  valued at  $15,107,000,  net of
adjustment for expenses paid by the Company on behalf of Laptop Lane,  exchanged
for all outstanding  common stock shares of Laptop Lane, (ii) direct acquisition
costs of approximately $2,300,000, which includes a bonus payment to Laptop Lane
employees for $431,000 in lieu of Laptop Lane stock  options,  and (iii) 250,000
common stock shares of the Company  valued at  $3,652,000 to be issued to former
Laptop Lane stockholders in payment for achieving  certain criteria.  As part of
the acquisition,  an additional  333,333 common stock shares of the Company will
be distributed to former Laptop Lane  stockholders if certain  performance goals
or other  criteria are met. These common stock shares were issued in a nonpublic
offering  pursuant to  transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities
Act.  As of  September  30,  2000,  Laptop Lane has  achieved  three of the four
performance  goals; as a result,  249,981 common stock shares of the Company and
cash  amounting  to  $3,652,000  was  distributed  to  the  former  Laptop  Lane
stockholders.  The fourth  performance goal requirement was met in October 2000,
as a result, upon the resolution of certain claims against Laptop Lane, all or a
portion of the remaining 83,333 common stock shares of the Company  amounting to
$500,000  was  accrued  for  and  will  be  issued  to the  former  Laptop  Lane
stockholders.


Through  September 30, 2000,  the Company has granted  options to seven separate
non-employee  consultants  to  purchase an  aggregate  of 180,500  common  stock
shares. The options were granted as partial consideration for services rendered.
The options typically vest over the period of contracted  service.  The exercise
price of these  options  range from $7.375 to $23.8125.  In the  aggregate,  the
options have a weighted  average  exercise price of $13.08.  As of September 30,
2000,  non-employee  consultant  options  for 64,306  common  stock  shares were
outstanding.  For the year ended  September  30, 2000 the Company  issued 63,194
common stock shares pursuant to the exercise of non-employee  consultant options
at an average price of $9.6003 per share.  These options for common stock shares
were  granted in a nonpublic  offering  pursuant to  transactions  exempt  under
Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
<PAGE>





Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

The following table sets forth for the periods selected  consolidated  financial
and operating  data for the Company.  The statements of operations for the years
ended  and  balance  sheets  data as of  September  30,  2000 and 1999 have been
derived from the Company's  consolidated  financial  statements  audited by KPMG
LLP. The  statements of operations for the years ended and balance sheet data as
of  September  30,  1998,   1997  and  1996  were  derived  from  the  Company's
consolidated  financial  statements audited by  PricewaterhouseCoopers  LLP. The
selected  consolidated  financial  data  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with
"Management's  Discussions  and Analysis of Financial  Condition  and Results of
Operations"  and the  consolidated  financial  statements  and the notes thereto
included elsewhere in this report.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                         Year Ended September 30,
                                                     -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     ------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------
                                                       2000 (b)     1999 (c)       1998         1997       1996 (d)
                                                       --------     --------       ----         ----       --------
                                                                  (In thousands, except per share data)
<S>                                                  <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Consolidated Statements of Operations Data (a):
Net sales........................................    $     9,927   $     1,584  $         -  $         -  $         -
Cost of sales....................................         10,465         1,449            -            -            -
                                                     -----------   -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
   Gross profit (loss)...........................           (538)          135            -            -            -
                                                     ------------  -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
Operating expenses:
   Selling and marketing, engineering, and general
     and administrative..........................         22,064         9,147        1,866        1,128        1,654
   Depreciation and amortization.................          3,284         1,888           84           76          306
   Compensation related to stock options.........         14,557         8,538           27            -            -
   Acquisition costs and other...................              -             -            -            -          321
                                                     -----------   -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
     Total operating expenses....................         39,905        19,573        1,977        1,204        2,281
                                                     -----------   -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
Loss from continuing operations..................        (40,443)      (19,438)      (1,977)      (1,204)      (2,281)
Other income (expenses):
   Interest income...............................         11,843         3,617          112            -            -
   Interest expense..............................           (526)       (4,716)        (966)      (1,028)      (1,122)
   Gain on sale of available-for-sale securities.              -             -            -            -        5,689
   Other income (expense)........................          8,572        (1,390)        (173)         (72)          31
                                                     -----------   -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
Income (loss) from continuing operations before
   income taxes..................................        (20,554)      (21,927)      (3,004)      (2,304)       2,317
Provision for income taxes.......................              -             -            -            -            -
                                                     -----------   ------------ -----------  -----------  -----------

Income (loss) from continuing operations.........        (20,554)      (21,927)      (3,004)      (2,304)       2,317

Income (loss) from discontinued operations.......        (72,399)      (29,902)     (13,998)         159       (2,353)
Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations      (139,400)        1,820            -         (486)      (6,061)
                                                     -----------   -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
Net loss.........................................       (232,353)      (50,009)     (17,002)      (2,631)      (6,097)
Preferred dividends..............................              -          (473)        (343)           -            -
                                                     -----------   -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
Net loss applicable to common shares.............    $  (232,353)  $   (50,482) $   (17,345) $    (2,631) $    (6,097)
                                                     ===========   ===========  ===========  ===========  ===========
Income (loss) from continuing operations per
common share.....................................    $     (0.87)  $     (1.78) $     (0.41) $     (0.35) $      0.39
Discontinued operations..........................          (9.01)        (2.27)       (1.89)       (0.05)       (1.44)
Preferred dividends..............................              -         (0.04)       (0.05)           -            -
                                                     -----------   -----------  -----------  -----------  -----------
Basic and diluted loss per common share..........    $     (9.88)  $     (4.09) $     (2.35) $     (0.40) $     (1.05)
                                                     ============  ============ ============ ============ ============

Balance Sheet Data (a):
Working capital (deficit)........................    $   115,172   $   133,790  $    11,817  $      (969) $    (1,009)
Total assets.....................................        212,306       194,150       21,810       11,999       15,103
Long-term liabilities............................          4,104        20,153        9,048        8,719        9,477
Redeemable convertible preferred stock...........              -             -       18,187            -            -
Stockholders' equity (deficit)...................        139,914       163,709       (6,171)       2,028        3,793

<FN>
(a) Restated to reflect business center services, cable-based Internet services,
    document   management  and   telecommunications   segments  as  discontinued
    operations.
(b) Includes Aerzone Corporation as a discontinued operation since its formation
    on January 24,  2000,  and Laptop Lane Limited as a  discontinued  operation
    since its acquisition on April 21, 2000.

(c) Includes Intelligent Communications, Inc. since  its acquisition on February
    9, 1999.

(d) Includes   ISP  Channel,   Inc.  (formerly   MediaCity  World,  Inc.)  as  a
    discontinued operation since its acquisition on June 21, 1996.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<PAGE>


Item 7. Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations


The following discussion of the financial condition and results of operations of
the Company should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety
by reference to, the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements of the Company and the
related Notes thereto  appearing  elsewhere in this Form 10-K.  This  discussion
contains  forward-looking  statements that involve risks and uncertainties.  The
Company's actual results could differ  materially from those  anticipated in the
forward-looking  statements as a result of certain  factors  including,  but not
limited to, those discussed in "Risk Factors",  "Business" and elsewhere in this
Form 10-K. The Company disclaims any obligation to update information  contained
in any forward-looking statement.


Overview


The Company currently conducts its continuing operations through its subsidiary,
Intelligent   Communications,   Inc.  ("Intellicom"),   which  provides  two-way
broadband satellite connectivity utilizing very small aperture terminal ("VSAT")
technology to a wide variety of business customers.


Revenue for Intellicom consists of (i) monthly service fees paid by users of the
satellite service on a per VSAT basis, (ii) VSAT-related  equipment sales, (iii)
revenue from  sub-leasing of excess  satellite  transponder  space and (iv) data
center  processing  fees.  The last  category  represents  legacy  business that
Intellicom exited September 30, 1999, to focus on its core business of providing
high-speed Internet access using two-way satellite technology.

Cost of sales for Intellicom  consists  primarily of connectivity cost and costs
of VSAT equipment sold.  Intellicom's  connectivity  cost consists  primarily of
satellite transponder fees.  Currently,  Intellicom has transponder space on two
satellites,  GE-3  and  SatMex  5,  both of  which  provide  coverage  over  the
continental United States and beyond.


The Company reports operating  expenses in several  categories:  (i) selling and
marketing  includes,  in  addition  to the costs of selling  and  marketing  the
Company's services to end users,  customer care, content  production,  and cable
partnering costs; (ii) engineering,  which includes the costs of maintaining and
manning  the  network  operations  center,  field  engineering  and  information
technology;  and (iii)  general  and  administrative  costs.  Also  included  in
operating  expenses is depreciation,  amortization  and compensation  related to
stock options. Amortization expense primarily consists of the periodic write off
of  developed  technology  acquired.   Compensation  related  to  stock  options
primarily  relates to the  amortization of deferred stock  compensation  expense
from stock options granted between October 1998 and March 1999.


The results of operations  for the years ended  September 30, 1999 and 1998 have
been  restated  for the  effects  of  discontinued  operations  of  Micrographic
Technology  Corporation  ("MTC"),  Kansas  Communications,   Inc.  ("KCI"),  ISP
Channel,  Inc.  ("ISP  Channel")  and  Aerzone  Corporation  ("Aerzone"),  which
includes  the  results  of  Laptop  Lane  Limited   ("Laptop  Lane")  since  its
acquisition on April 21, 2000.


Results of Continuing  Operations for the Year Ended September 30, 2000 Compared
to the Year Ended September 30, 1999

Net Sales. Consolidated net sales are attributable entirely to Intellicom, which
increased $8,343,000,  or 526%, to $9,927,000 for year ended September 30, 2000,
as compared to $1,584,000 for the two hundred  thirty four days ended  September
30,  1999,  primarily  as a result of  equipment  sales to Tricom,  S.A.  and an
additional one-hundred-thirty-one days of net sales for year ended September 30,
2000, as compared to September 30, 1999, due to the acquisition of Intellicom on
February 9, 1999, offset by Intellicom  exiting from the data processing service
business on September 30, 1999, and no transponder  sublease income for the year
ended  September  30,  2000.  Net  sales  from  Intellicom's  core  business  of
satellite-based Internet services increased $609,000, or 118%, to $1,125,000 for
the year ended  September  30, 2000, as compared to $516,000 for the two hundred
thirty four days ended September 30, 1999.  Equipment sales increased $7,956,000
to $8,092,000 for the year ended September 30, 2000, as compared to $136,000 for
the two hundred  thirty four days ended  September 30, 1999, as a result of VSAT
equipment  sales  to  Tricom,  S.A.  Other  sources  of  sales,  excluding  data
processing service fees and transponder  sublease income,  increased $527,000 to
$710,000 for the year ended  September 30, 2000, as compared to $183,000 for the
two hundred thirty four days ended September 30, 1999.

Cost  of  Sales.  Consolidated  cost  of  sales  are  attributable  entirely  to
Intellicom,  which  increased  $9,016,000,  or 622%, to $10,465,000 for the year
ended  September 30, 2000, as compared to $1,449,000  for the two hundred thirty
four days ended  September  30, 1999,  primarily  as a result of VSAT  equipment
sales to  Tricom,  S.A.  and the space  segment  leasing  of a full  transponder
beginning  on  December 1, 1999, in preparation  for  providing  satellite-based
Internet services to existing and prospective  customers.  The largest component
of  Intellicom's  cost of sales  for the year  ended  September  30,  2000,  are
equipment  costs  resulting from VSAT equipment  sales to Tricom,  S.A.  Another
component of Intellicom's  cost of sales is transponder  fees, which amounted to
$3,063,000  for the year ended  September  30, 2000, as compared to $788,000 for
the two hundred thirty four days ended September 30, 1999.

Selling and Marketing. Consolidated selling and marketing expenses (exclusive of
non-cash  compensation expense (benefit) of $(166,000) for 2000 and $166,000 for
1999) increased $4,433,000,  or 802%, to $4,986,000 for the year ended September
30, 2000, as compared to $553,000 for the year ended September 30, 1999.
<PAGE>


Intellicom's  selling and marketing expenses increased  $2,679,000,  or 485%, to
$3,232,000  for the year ended  September  30, 2000, as compared to $553,000 for
the two hundred thirty four days ended September 30, 1999, primarily as a result
of the  hiring  Intellicom  has done to staff  these  departments.  The  Company
believes that these costs will  continue to increase as Intellicom  continues to
develop its business.


For the year ended September 30, 2000,  corporate incurred selling and marketing
expenses of $1,754,000,  which are primarily personnel costs associated with the
formation  of the new business  development  and public  relations  departments.
These  costs are  expected  to  decrease  going  forward as part of a  corporate
restructuring.


Engineering.   Consolidated   engineering   expenses   (exclusive   of  non-cash
compensation  expense  of  $55,000  for 2000 and  $199,000  for 1999)  increased
$3,894,000,  or 908%,  to $4,323,000  for the year ended  September 30, 2000, as
compared to $429,000 for the year ended September 30, 1999.

Intellicom's  engineering  expenses  increased  $3,358,000 to $3,787,000 for the
year ended  September  30,  2000,  as compared  to $429,000  for the two hundred
thirty  four days ended  September  30,  1999,  primarily  as a result of hiring
Intellicom has done to staff these departments.  The Company believes that these
costs will continue to increase as Intellicom continues to develop its business.


For the year ended September 30, 2000,  corporate incurred  engineering expenses
of $536,000,  which are primarily  personnel costs associated with the formation
of a corporate technology  department.  The corporate  technology  department is
responsible for technology and strategic development for the Company. Subsequent
to the year ended  September  30, 2000,  this  department  was  eliminated  in a
corporate restructuring.


General and  Administrative.  Consolidated  general and administrative  expenses
(exclusive  of  non-cash  compensation  expense  of  $14,668,000  for  2000  and
$8,173,000 for 1999) increased  $4,590,000,  or 56%, to $12,755,000 for the year
ended September 30, 2000, as compared to $8,165,000 for the year ended September
30, 1999.

Intellicom's general and administrative expenses increased $1,071,000,  or 119%,
to $1,967,000 for the year ended September 30, 2000, as compared to $896,000 for
the two hundred thirty four days ended September 30, 1999, primarily as a result
of leasing an additional office facility in Livermore, California; the write off
of a  customer  receivable;  and an  additional  one-hundred-thirty-one  days of
general and  administrative  expenses for the year ended  September  30, 2000 as
compared to September 30, 1999 due to the  acquisition of Intellicom on February
9, 1999.  The Company  believes  that these  costs will  continue to increase as
Intellicom continues to develop its business.


Corporate general and administrative  expenses increased $3,519,000,  or 48%, to
$10,788,000 for the year ended September 30, 2000, as compared to $7,269,000 for
the year  ended  September  30,  1999.  The  growth  in  corporate  general  and
administrative  expenses are a result of the hiring that  corporate  has done to
staff its administrative,  executive and finance departments to support both the
continuing  and  discontinued  operations.  These costs are expected to decrease
going forward as part of a corporate restructuring.

Depreciation  and  Amortization.   Consolidated  depreciation  and  amortization
expenses  increased  $1,396,000,  or  74%,  to  $3,284,000  for the  year  ended
September 30, 2000, as compared to $1,888,000  for the year ended  September 30,
1999.


Intellicom's depreciation and amortization expense increased $1,216,000, or 71%,
to $2,929,000  for the year ended  September 30, 2000, as compared to $1,713,000
for the two hundred  thirty four days ended  September 30, 1999,  primarily as a
result  of  an  additional   one-hundred-thirty-one  days  of  depreciation  and
amortization  expense for September 30, 2000, as compared to September 30, 1999,
due to the  acquisition of Intellicom on February 9, 1999. The Company  believes
depreciation  expense  will  increase  as  Intellicom  continues  to expand  its
facilities, while amortization expense is expected to remain the same.

Corporate  depreciation and amortization expense increased $180,000, or 102%, to
$355,000 for the year ended  September 30, 2000, as compared to $175,000 for the
year ended  September 30, 1999, primarily as a result of increased  depreciation
related to leasehold improvements and office furniture of its corporate offices.


Non-Cash Compensation Expense Related to Stock Options. The Company recognized a
non-cash  compensation  expense  related to stock options of $14,557,000 for the
year ended  September  30, 2000,  as compared to  $8,538,000  for the year ended
September 30, 1999. For the year ended September 30, 2000, non-cash compensation
expense  related to stock options  consisted of $14,296,000  related to employee
stock options and $261,000  related to  non-employee  options,  and for the year
ended September 30, 1999 non-cash  compensation expense related to stock options
consisted of $6,877,000 related to employee stock options and $1,661,000 related
to  non-employee  options.  The increase is primarily due to the additional five
months of deferred  stock  compensation  amortization  related to employee stock
options for the year ended September 30, 2000.
<PAGE>


Interest Income. Consolidated interest income was $11,843,000 for the year ended
September 30, 2000, as compared to $3,617,000  for the year ended  September 30,
1999. This increase was primarily due to the increased cash, cash equivalent and
short-term  investment  balances  as a  result  of  the  secondary  offering  of
4,600,000  common stock shares for  $141,502,000 on April 28, 1999, and the sale
of 5,000,000 common stock shares for $128,121,000 to Pacific Century  CyberWorks
Limited ("Pacific Century") on December 13, 1999.

Interest Expense. Consolidated interest expense decreased $4,190,000, or 89%, to
$526,000 for the year ended  September 30, 2000,  as compared to $4,716,000  for
the year ended  September  30,  1999.  This  decrease  is  primarily  due to the
reduction of interest  expense  resulting  from the  conversion of the 9% senior
subordinated convertible notes.


Other Income (Expense). Other income was $8,572,000 for the year ended September
30,  2000,  as  compared  to other  expense  of  $1,390,000  for the year  ended
September  30, 1999.  The increase is primarily due to the  $10,194,000  gain on
exchange of 50,000  common stock shares of Big Sky Network  Canada,  Limited for
(i)  $2,500,000  in cash,  (ii) a  promissory  note in the amount of  $1,700,000
bearing  interest at 8% per annum due  September 29, 2001,  and (iii)  1,133,000
common stock shares valued at $9,630,000  from China  Broadband  Corporation  on
September 29, 2000.  China Broadband is the leading cable broadband  provider in
China.  China  Broadband  is listed and  traded on the  NASDAQ  Over-the-Counter
Bulletin Board under the symbol "CBBD". As of September 30, 2000, the investment
in China Broadband is an available for sale security and accordingly  classified
as short-term investments on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.


Income Taxes.  The Company made no provision for income taxes for the year ended
September  30, 2000,  and the year ended  September 30, 1999, as a result of the
Company's continuing losses.


Loss  from  Discontinued   Operations.   The  Company  recognized  a  loss  from
discontinued  operations of $211,799,000  for the year ended September 30, 2000,
as compared to $28,082,000 for the year ended September 30, 1999. This consisted
of a loss on  disposal  of ISP  Channel  of  $97,200,000,  a net  loss  from the
operations  of ISP  Channel of  $60,249,000,  a loss on  disposal  of Aerzone of
$42,200,000,  and a net loss from the operations of Aerzone of  $12,150,000  for
the year ended  September  30,  2000.  This as  compared  to a net loss from the
operations of ISP Channel of $29,439,000,  a net loss from the operations of MTC
of  $633,000,  a loss on  disposal  of MTC of  $321,000,  a net income  from the
operations of KCI of $170,000,  and a gain on disposal of KCI of $2,141,000  for
year ended September 30, 1999.

Preferred  Dividends.  The Company paid dividends of $473,000 for the year ended
September 30, 1999,  related to the 5% redeemable  convertible  preferred stock.
The Company paid no dividends for the year ended  September 30, 2000 as a result
of the conversion the 5% redeemable  convertible preferred stock to common stock
during the year ended September 30, 1999.

Net  Loss.  The  Company  had  a  net  loss   applicable  to  common  shares  of
$232,353,000, or a net loss per share of $9.88, for the year ended September 30,
2000, as compared to a net loss applicable to common shares of $50,482,000, or a
net loss per share of $4.09, for the year ended September 30, 1999.

Results of Continuing  Operations for the Year Ended September 30, 1999 Compared
to the Year Ended September 30, 1998

Net Sales. Consolidated net sales are attributable entirely to Intellicom, which
was $1,585,000 for the two hundred thirty four days ended September 30, 1999. No
net sales were  recorded for the year ended  September  30, 1998, as a result of
the Company's  acquisition  of  Intellicom  on February 9, 1999.  Net sales from
Intellicom's  core  business  of  satellite-based  Internet  services  generated
$516,000  for the two  hundred  thirty  four  days  ended  September  30,  1999.
Equipment  sales  were  $136,000  for the two  hundred  thirty  four days  ended
September 30, 1999.  Other sources of sales,  excluding data processing  service
fees and transponder  sublease  income,  was $183,000 for the two hundred thirty
four days ended September 30, 1999.

Cost of Sales. Consolidated cost of sales are entirely to Intellicom,  which was
$1,449,000  for the two hundred  thirty four days ended  September  30, 1999. No
cost of sales were  recorded for the year ended  September 30, 1998, as a result
of the Company's  acquisition  of  Intellicom  on February 9, 1999.  The largest
component of Intellicom's  cost of sales is transponder  fees, which amounted to
$788,000 for the two hundred thirty four days ended September 30, 1999.

Selling and Marketing. Consolidated selling and marketing expenses (exclusive of
non-cash  compensation  expense of  $166,000  for 1999 and no expense  for 1998)
consisted entirely of Intellicom,  which was $553,000 for the two hundred thirty
four days ended  September  30, 1999.  No selling and  marketing  expenses  were
recorded  for the year ended  September  30,  1998 as a result of the  Company's
acquisition of Intellicom on February 9, 1999.

Engineering.   Consolidated   engineering   expenses   (exclusive   of  non-cash
compensation  expense of $199,000  for 1999 and no expense  for 1998)  consisted
entirely of Intellicom,  which was $429,000 for the two hundred thirty four days
ended  September  30, 1999. No  engineering  expenses were recorded for the year
ended September 30, 1998, as a result of the Company's acquisition of Intellicom
on February 9, 1999.


General and  Administrative.  Consolidated  general and administrative  expenses
(exclusive of non-cash  compensation  expense of $8,173,000 for 1999 and $27,000
for 1998)  increased  $6,299,000,  or 338%,  to  $8,165,000  for the year  ended
September 30, 1999, as compared to $1,866,000  for the year ended  September 30,
1998.

Intellicom's  general  and  administrative  expenses  were $896,000  for the two
hundred thirty four days ended September 30, 1999. No general and administrative
expenses were recorded for the year ended September 30, 1998, as a result of the
Company's acquisition of Intellicom on February 9, 1999.

<PAGE>

The  Company's   corporate  general  and   administrative   expenses   increased
$5,403,000,  or 289%,  to $7,269,000  for the year ended  September 30, 1999, as
compared to  $1,866,000  for the year ended  September  30, 1998.  The growth in
corporate  general and  administrative  expenses are a result of the hiring that
corporate  has  done  to  staff  its   administrative,   executive  and  finance
departments to support both the continuing and discontinued operations.


Depreciation  and  Amortization.   Consolidated  depreciation  and  amortization
expenses  increased  $1,804,000 to $1,888,000  for the year ended  September 30,
1999, as compared to $84,000 for the year ended September 30, 1998.

Intellicom's  depreciation and  amortization  expense was $1,713,000 for the two
hundred  thirty  four  days  ended  September  30,  1999.  No  depreciation  and
amortization  expenses were recorded for the year ended September 30, 1998, as a
result of the Company's acquisition of Intellicom on February 9, 1999.

The Company's corporate depreciation and amortization expense increased $91,000,
or 108%,  to $175,000  for the year ended  September  30,  1999,  as compared to
$84,000  for the  year  ended  September  30,  1998, as a  result  of  increased
depreciation  on leasehold  improvements  and office  equipment of its corporate
offices.


Non-Cash Compensation Expense Related to Stock Options. The Company recognized a
non-cash  compensation  expense  related to stock options of $8,538,000  for the
year ended  September  30,  1999,  as  compared  to  $27,000  for the year ended
September 30, 1998. For the year ended September 30, 1999 non-cash  compensation
expense  related to stock options  consisted of  $6,877,000  related to employee
stock options and $1,661,000 related to non-employee  options,  and for the year
ended September 30, 1998, non-cash compensation expense related to stock options
consisted of $27,000 related to non-employee  options. The increase is primarily
due to the deferred stock  compensation  amortization  related to employee stock
options for the year ended September 30, 1999.


Interest Income.  Consolidated interest income was $3,617,000 for the year ended
September  30, 1999,  as compared to $112,000 for the year ended  September  30,
1998. This increase was primarily due to the increased cash, cash equivalent and
short-term  investment  balances  as a  result  of  the  secondary  offering  of
4,600,000 common stock shares for $141,502,000 on April 28, 1999.

Interest Expense.  Consolidated interest expense increased $3,750,000,  or 388%,
to $4,716,000 for the year ended September 30, 1999, as compared to $966,000 for
the year ended  September  30,  1998.  This  increase  is  primarily  due to the
interest  expense   resulting  from  the  $12,000,000  9%  senior   subordinated
convertible  notes issued on January 12, 1999, and the related  amortization  of
deferred debt issuance  costs  including the value  attributed to the beneficial
conversion  feature  of the loan  notes,  and the  promissory  notes  issued  in
connection with the acquisition of Intellicom on February 9, 1999.

Other  Income  (Expense).  Other  expense  was  $1,390,000  for the  year  ended
September  30, 1999, as compared to other expense of $173,000 for the year ended
September  30,  1998.  This  increase  was  primarily  a result of the  indirect
expenses  associated  with the  Company's  financing  activities,  including the
Secondary  Offering,  as well as the  penalty  incurred in  connection  with the
Series C redeemable convertible preferred stock.

Income Taxes.  The Company made no provision for income taxes for the year ended
September  30, 1999,  and the year ended  September 30, 1998, as a result of the
Company's continuing losses.


Loss  from  Discontinued   Operations.   The  Company  recognized  a  loss  from
discontinued operations of $28,082,000 for the year ended September 30, 1999, as
compared to $13,998,000 for the year ended September 30, 1998. This consisted of
a net loss from the  operations of ISP Channel of  $29,439,000,  a net loss from
the  operations of MTC of $633,000,  a loss on disposal of MTC of $321,000,  net
income from the operations of KCI of $170,000,  and a gain on disposal of KCI of
$2,141,000  for year ended  September  30, 1999,  as compared to a net loss from
operations  of ISP  Channel of  $8,272,000,  a net loss of  $5,652,000  from the
operations of MTC, and a net loss of $73,000 from the  operations of KCI for the
year ended September 30, 1998.


Preferred  Dividends.  The Company paid dividends of $473,000 for the year ended
September 30, 1999,  and $343,000 for the year ended  September 30, 1998 related
to the 5% redeemable convertible preferred stock.


Net Loss. The Company had a net loss applicable to common shares of $50,482,000,
or a net loss per share of $4.09,  for the year ended  September  30,  1999,  as
compared to a net loss applicable to common shares of $17,345,000, or a net loss
per share of $2.35, for the year ended September 30, 1998.

<PAGE>

Liquidity and Capital Resources


Since September 1998, the Company has funded the significant negative cash flows
from its operating  activities and the associated capital expenditures through a
combination  of public and private  equity  sales,  convertible  debt issues and
equipment  leases.  On April 28, 1999, the Company  completed a secondary public
offering (the  "Secondary  Offering"),  in which it sold 4,600,000  common stock
shares at $33.00 per share.  The Company  received  $141,502,000 in cash, net of
underwriting  discounts,  commissions  and other offering costs. On December 13,
1999, the Company completed a private placement of 5,000,000 common stock shares
for net  proceeds of  $128,121,000  to Pacific  Century,  and  entitled  Pacific
Century to designate two persons for election to the Board of  Directors.  As of
September 30, 2000, the Company had  $173,402,000 in cash, cash  equivalents and
short-term investments compared with $142,585,000 as of September 30, 1999.

Net cash used in operating  activities  of  continuing  operations  for the year
ended  September  30,  2000  was  $21,142,000.  Of  this  amount,  approximately
$20,554,000  million  stemmed  from  the  Company's  net  loss  from  continuing
operations  as reduced  by  approximately  $11,787,000,  for  non-cash  charges,
primarily depreciation  ($987,000),  amortization  ($2,297,000) and compensation
expense  related  to stock  options  ($14,557,000).  This was  offset in part by
approximately  $9,355,000,  which was  generated  from an increase in  operating
assets  and  increase  in  operating   liabilities.   Operating   activities  of
discontinued operations used $49,751,000 of net cash.

Net cash used in investing  activities  of  continuing  operations  for the year
ended  September  30,  2000  was  approximately  $85,013,000.  Of  this  amount,
$68,894,000 was used to purchase short-term investments,  $4,442,000 was used to
purchase property, plant and equipment, $7,047,000 was used to acquire long-term
equity  investments,  $6,000,000 was used to provide  working  capital to Laptop
Lane under a secured promissory note prior to the close of the acquisition,  and
$1,867,000  (net of cash  acquired)  payment for the  purchase  of Laptop  Lane,
offset by  $1,000,000  payment  received on the 8%  $1,000,000  promissory  note
related to KCI sale to  Convergent  Communications  Services,  Inc.,  $2,500,000
proceeds related to exchange of 50,000 Big Sky Network Canada,  Ltd common stock
shares,  and  $1,302,000  proceeds  from  sale of the  Intellicom  headquarters'
building.  Investing  activities of discontinued  operations used $17,165,000 of
net cash.

Net cash provided by financing  activities for the year ended September 30, 2000
was  $129,901,000  primarily  through the private  placement  sale of  5,000,000
common  stock  shares to  Pacific  Century  for net  proceeds  of  $128,121,000,
proceeds  from  common  stock  purchase  by  employee  stock  purchase  plan for
$145,000, proceeds from exercise of warrants and options for $5,209,000,  offset
by  principal  payments  of debt for  $1,294,000  and  payment  for  purchase of
treasury stock of $2,279,000 . Financing  activities of discontinued  operations
used $1,598,000 of net cash.


The Company  believes it has sufficient cash and unutilized  lease facilities to
meet its presently anticipated business requirements over the next twelve months
including the funding of net operating  losses,  working  capital  requirements,
capital investments and strategic investments.

Acquisition of Intellicom. On February 9, 1999, a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company merged with and into Intelligent Communications,  Inc. ("Intellicom" and
the "Intellicom  Acquisition").  The purchase price of $14,869,000 was comprised
of:  (i) a  cash  component  of  $500,000  (the  "Cash  Consideration");  (ii) a
promissory note in the amount of $1,000,000  bearing  interest at 7.5% per annum
and due one year after closing (the "First Promissory Note"); (iii) a promissory
note in the amount of $2,000,000  bearing interest at 8.5% per annum and due two
years after  closing  (the "Second  Promissory  Note",  together  with the First
Promissory Note, the "Debt Consideration");  (iv) the issuance of 500,000 shares
of the  Company's  common stock  (adjustable  upwards  after one year in certain
circumstances),  valued at $14.938 per share,  for a total  value of  $7,469,000
(the "Closing  Shares");  (v)  additional  shares of the Company's  common stock
issuable upon the first, second and third  anniversaries of the closing,  valued
at a total of $3,500,000 (the  "Anniversary  Shares",  together with the Closing
Shares, the "Equity  Consideration");  and (vi) certain direct acquisition costs
totaling  $400,000.  The Debt Consideration may be partially or wholly converted
into the Company's  common stock,  under certain  circumstances.  The conversion
price of the Debt  Consideration  is based upon the average closing price of the
Company's  common stock for the 15 days  immediately  preceding  the  conversion
date. Both the Debt Consideration and the Equity  Consideration were issued in a
nonpublic  offering  pursuant to  transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the
Securities  Act. In April 1999, the Company paid the First  Promissory  Note and
related interest in full with a combination of cash and equity. The Company paid
$832,000 in cash and the  remainder,  after  expenses,  with 6,118  common stock
shares valued at $190,000.  The Intellicom  Acquisition  agreement  requires the
Company to issue $1,500,000 of common stock shares on the first anniversary date
of the  Intellicom  Acquisition. Accordingly,  on February 8, 2000,  the Company
issued  43,314  common stock  shares  valued at  $1,499,000  and paid $1,000 for
fractional shares to the former  shareholders of Intellicom.  Additionally,  the
Intellicom  Acquisition agreement includes a demonstration bonus ("Demonstration
Bonus") of $1,000,000 payable in cash or shares of the Company's common stock at
the Company's option by the first anniversary date of the Intellicom Acquisition
if certain  conditions are met. On February 8, 2000, the opportunity to earn the
Demonstration Bonus had expired, and accordingly the Demonstration Bonus was not
paid nor included in the purchase price of Intellicom.
<PAGE>


Formation of Aerzone, Acquisition of Laptop Lane, and Discontinued Operations of
Aerzone. On January 24, 2000 the Company founded Aerzone (formerly SoftNet Zone,
Inc.), a Delaware  corporation,  to provide high-speed Internet access to global
business travelers. As part of the Aerzone business, the Company acquired Laptop
Lane, a Washington corporation, on April 21, 2000. The acquisition was accounted
for under the purchase method and the results of Laptop Lane are included in the
consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition.  Laptop Lane is
a leading  provider of business  center  services in airports.  The Company paid
approximately  $21,559,000  consisting of (i) 972,266 common stock shares of the
Company  valued at  $15,107,000,  net of  adjustment  for  expenses  paid by the
Company on behalf of Laptop Lane,  exchanged  for all  outstanding  common stock
shares  of  Laptop  Lane,  (ii)  direct   acquisition   costs  of  approximately
$2,300,000, which includes a bonus payment to Laptop Lane employees for $431,000
in lieu of Laptop Lane stock  options,  and (iii) 250,000 common stock shares of
the Company valued at $3,652,000 to be issued to former Laptop Lane stockholders
in payment  for  achieving  certain  criteria.  As part of the  acquisition,  an
additional  333,333  common stock shares of the Company will be  distributed  to
former Laptop Lane  stockholders if certain  performance goals or other criteria
are met. As of September  30, 2000,  Laptop Lane has achieved  three of the four
performance  goals,  as a result  249,981 common stock shares of the Company and
cash  amounting  to  $3,652,000  was  distributed  to  the  former  Laptop  Lane
stockholders.  The fourth  performance goal requirement was met in October 2000,
as a result, upon the resolution of certain claims against Laptop Lane, all or a
portion of the remaining 83,333 common stock shares of the Company  amounting to
$500,000  was  accrued  for  and  will  be  issued  to the  former  Laptop  Lane
stockholders.  Additionally,  in connection  with the  acquisition,  the Company
provided  $6,000,000  in  working  capital  to  Laptop  Lane,  under  a  secured
promissory note.

Subsequently,  on December  19, 2000,  the Company  decided to  discontinue  the
Aerzone  business  in light  of  significant  long-term  capital  needs  and the
difficulty of securing the necessary  financing  because of the current state of
the financial markets.  The plan includes a reduction in personnel.  The Company
anticipates that it will sell Laptop Lane. The operating  results of Aerzone has
been  segregated  from  continuing  operations  and is  reported  as  loss  from
discontinued operations, net of tax on the consolidated statement of operations.
The assets and liabilities of such operations are reflected in the  discontinued
operations reserve on the consolidated  balance sheets as of September 30, 2000.
The estimated loss on disposal of Aerzone is $42,200,000.


Discontinued Operations of ISP Channel. On December 7, 2000, the Company's Board
of  Directors  approved a plan to  discontinue  providing  cable-based  Internet
services through its ISP Channel  subsidiary by December 31, 2000 because of (1)
consolidation in the cable television industry made it difficult for ISP Channel
to achieve the economies of scale necessary to provide such services profitably,
and (2) the Company was no longer able to bear the costs of maintaining  the ISP
Channel.  The  operating  results  of  ISP  Channel  has  been  segregated  from
continuing operations and is reported as loss from discontinued operations,  net
of tax on the  consolidated  statements of  operations.  The  estimated  loss on
disposal of ISP Channel is $97,200,000.

Sale of KCI.  On  February  12,  1999,  substantially  all of the  assets of the
telecommunications   segment,  KCI,  were  sold  to  Convergent   Communications
Services, Inc. ("Convergent  Communications") for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately  $6,300,000  subject to adjustment in certain  events.  Convergent
Communications  paid  $100,000 in cash in November  1998 upon  execution  of the
letter of intent to purchase and paid the remainder of the purchase price on the
closing date as follows:  (i)  $1,400,000  in cash;  (ii)  approximately  30,000
shares of Convergent  Communications' parent company common stock with an agreed
value of approximately  $300,000 (the "Convergent  Shares");  (iii) a promissory
note in the amount of $2,000,000  (the "First  Convergent  Note") bearing simple
interest  at the rate of 11% per  annum  and  payable  on July 1,  2000;  (iv) a
promissory  note in the amount of  $1,000,000  (the  "Second  Convergent  Note")
bearing  simple  interest  at the rate of 8% per  annum  and  payable  12 months
following  the  closing  date  ; and  (v) a  promissory  note  in an  amount  of
$1,500,000 (the "Third  Convergent Note") bearing simple interest at the rate of
8% per annum and payable 12 months  following the closing date, which is subject
to  mandatory  prepayment  in certain  events.  Furthermore,  a  purchase  price
adjustment subsequent to closing provided the Company with additional Convergent
Shares with an agreed value of $198,000  for a total  investment  in  Convergent
Communications common stock of $498,000.  The sale of KCI's assets resulted in a
gain of $2,141,000.  For the year ended  September 30, 1999, the First and Third
Convergent  Notes were paid in full. On November 5, 1999, the Second  Convergent
Note was paid in full.  The initial cash proceeds  received from the sale of KCI
were used to pay down the Company's revolving credit facility with West Suburban
Bank.
<PAGE>

Sale of MTC. On September  30, 1999,  the Company  sold the  Company's  document
management business, MTC, to Global Information Distribution GmbH ("GID") for an
aggregate  purchase  price of  approximately  $4,894,000 in cash,  which,  after
selling  costs,  resulted  in  a  loss  of  $321,000.  GID  paid  $100,000  as a
non-refundable  deposit  upon  acceptance  of the GID term  sheet.  GID paid the
Company the remaining $4,794,000 at the closing. The cash proceeds from the sale
of MTC were used in part to repay the Company's  revolving  credit facility with
West Suburban Bank. As of September 30, 1999 there was nothing outstanding under
this facility. The balance of the proceeds was used to pay for transaction costs
associated with the sale of MTC and to increase the Company's cash position.



Item 7a.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

The  Company's  exposure to market risk for  changes in interest  rates  relates
primarily  to the  increase or  decrease  in the amount of  interest  income the
Company can earn on its investment  portfolio and on the increase or decrease in
the amount of interest  expense the Company must pay with respect to its various
outstanding  debt  instruments.  The risk associated with  fluctuating  interest
expense is limited,  however,  to the exposure related to those debt instruments
and credit facilities,  which are tied to market rates. The Company does not use
derivative  financial  instruments  in its  investment  portfolio.  The  Company
ensures the safety and preservation of its invested  principal funds by limiting
default risks,  market risk and reinvestment risk. The Company mitigates default
risk by investing in safe and high-credit quality securities.


The Company had short-term  investments of  $127,403,000  at September 30, 2000.
These short-term  investments consist of highly liquid investments with original
maturities at the date of purchase of between three and eighteen  months.  These
investments  are subject to interest  rate risk and will fall in value if market
interest rates increase.  The Company believes a hypothetical increase in market
interest rates by 10 percent from levels at September 30, 2000,  would cause the
fair value of these  short-term  investments  to fall by an  immaterial  amount.
Since the Company is not required to sell these investments before maturity,  we
have the ability to avoid realizing losses on these  investments due to a sudden
change in market  interest  rates.  On the other hand,  declines in the interest
rates over time will reduce our interest income.


The  Company had  outstanding  convertible  debt  instruments  of  approximately
$2,104,000 at September 30, 2000.  These  instruments  have fixed interest rates
ranging from 5.0% to 6.0%.  Because the interest rates of these  instruments are
fixed,  a  hypothetical  10 percent  increase in interest  rates will not have a
material effect on the Company. Interest rate increases,  however, will increase
interest expense  associated with future  borrowing by the Company,  if any. The
Company does not hedge against interest rate fluctuations.

Equity Price Risk


The Company  through its business  dealings has obtained common stock of various
publicly traded technology companies, which are classified as available-for-sale
securities.  As a result,  the Company  values these  investments on its balance
sheet at September  30, 2000 at market  value.  Unrealized  gains and losses are
excluded from earnings and are reported in accumulated other  comprehensive loss
component of  stockholders'  equity.  The Company has not attempted to reduce or
eliminate its market exposure on these securities, and such investments were not
significant  to the  Company in the prior year.  A 50% adverse  change in equity
prices, based on a sensitivity analysis of technology stocks, would result in an
approximate   $4,900,000   decrease   in  the  fair   value  of  the   Company's
available-for-sale securities portfolio as of September 30, 2000.


Currency Exchange Risk

The  Company  has  historically  had very low  exposure  to  changes  in foreign
currency  exchange  rates,  and as  such,  has  not  used  derivative  financial
instruments to manage foreign currency  fluctuation risk. As the Company expands
globally,   the  risk  of  foreign   currency   exchange  rate  fluctuation  may
dramatically  increase.  Therefore,  in the future,  the  Company  may  consider
utilizing derivative instruments to mitigate such risks.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements


In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin  No. 101 ("SAB 101"),  Revenue  Recognition  in  Financial  Statements.
Implementation  is scheduled for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1999,
which would be effective for the Company  beginning in fiscal year 2001. SAB 101
addresses  various topics in revenue  recognition  including the  recognition of
revenue for contracts  involving  multiple  deliverables.  Based on management's
current  understanding  and  interpretation,  SAB 101 is not  expected to have a
material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.
<PAGE>


In June 2000, the FASB issued  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No.
138 ("FASB 138"),  Accounting  for Certain  Derivative  Instruments  and Certain
Hedging  Activities,  an amendment to FASB Statement No. 133 ("FASB 133").  FASB
138 addresses a limited number of issues causing implementation difficulties for
companies  that are  required  to apply FASB 133.  FASB 133,  as amended by FASB
Statement No. 137, Accounting for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging Activities
- - Deferral of the effective date of FASB Statement No. 133, is effective for all
fiscal  quarters of all fiscal years  beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company
believes  that  FASB 133 and FASB 138  will not have a  material  impact  on its
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



<PAGE>


Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
          Index To Consolidated Financial Statements September 30, 2000


                                                                            Page


Report of Independent Auditors KPMG LLP ..................................   33

Report of Independent Accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .............   34

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2000 and 1999 ............   35

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three years
   ended September 30, 2000 ..............................................   36

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity (Deficit) for
   the three years ended September 30, 2000 ..............................   37

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years
   ended September 30, 2000 ..............................................   38

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ............................   39-58



<PAGE>

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of SoftNet Systems, Inc.:


We have audited the accompanying  consolidated balance sheet of SoftNet Systems,
Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  as of  September  30,  2000 and 1999,  and the  related
consolidated  statement  of  operations,   stockholders'  equity  (deficit)  and
comprehensive  and cash flows for each of the years ended September 30, 2000. In
connection with our audits of the  consolidated  financial  statements,  we have
also audited the financial  statement  schedule as listed in the index appearing
under  Item  14(a)(2).   These   consolidated   financial   statements  are  the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these  consolidated  financial  statements  and  financial  statement
schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the  United  States of  America.  Those  standards  require  that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management,  as well as evaluating  the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of SoftNet
Systems,  Inc.  and  Subsidiaries  as of  September  30, 2000 and 1999,  and the
results of their operations and cash flows for each of the years in the two year
period  ended  September  30,  2000 in  conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally  accepted in the United States of America.  Also, in our opinion,  the
related  financial  statement  schedule,  when  considered  in  relation  to the
consolidated  financial  statements taken as a whole,  presents  fairly,  in all
material respects, the information set therein.


KPMG LLP





San Francisco, California
January 5, 2001


<PAGE>


                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of SoftNet Systems, Inc.:


In our opinion,  the  accompanying  consolidated  statements of  operations,  of
stockholders' equity (deficit) and of cash flows present fairly, in all material
respects,  the results of operations and cash flows of SoftNet Systems, Inc. and
its  subsidiaries  for the year ended  September  30,  1998 in  conformity  with
accounting  principles  generally  accepted in the United States of America.  In
addition,  in our opinion,  the financial statement schedule listed in the index
appearing under Item 14(a)(1)  presents fairly,  in all material  respects,  the
information  set  forth  therein  when  read in  conjunction  with  the  related
consolidated  financial  statements.  These  financial  statements and financial
statement  schedule are the  responsibility  of the  Company's  management;  our
responsibility  is to  express  an opinion  on these  financial  statements  and
financial statement schedule based on our audit. We conducted our audit of these
statements  in  accordance  with auditing  standards  generally  accepted in the
United  States of America,  which  require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable  assurance about whether the financial  statements are free of
material  misstatement.  An audit includes examining,  on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and  disclosures in the financial  statements,  assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP




San Jose, California

December  1,  1998,  except  for  Note  8  regarding  the  Senior   Subordinated
Convertible  Notes for which the date is January 13, 1999,  and Note 3 regarding
the  discontinuance  of the  document  management  segment for which the date is
April 13,  1999 and the  discontinuance  of the  cable-based  Internet  services
segment for which the date is December 7, 2000




<PAGE>

                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                           Consolidated Balance Sheets
                        (In thousands, except share data)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                September 30,
                                                                                        ----------------------------
                                                                                            2000            1999
                                                                                            ----            ----

<S>                                                                                     <C>            <C>
                                        ASSETS
Current assets:
   Cash and cash equivalents........................................................    $      44,731  $      89,499
   Short-term investments, available-for-sale.......................................          127,403         52,586
   Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $68 (2000) and $28
     (1999).........................................................................            2,558            240
   Notes receivable.................................................................            2,100          1,000
   Inventory........................................................................            4,128             36
   Other current assets.............................................................            1,272            717
                                                                                        -------------  -------------
Total current assets................................................................          182,192        144,078

Restricted cash.....................................................................            1,492            922
Property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation of $1,172 (2000) and $355
   (1999)...........................................................................            4,679          2,728
Intangibles, net of accumulated amortization of $3,828 (2000) and $1,531 (1999).....           12,257         14,544
Accounts receivable, non current portion............................................            3,409              -
Long-term equity investments........................................................            7,734            525
Deferred debt issuance costs........................................................               41          2,798
Other assets........................................................................              502            305
Net assets associated with discontinued operations of ISP Channel, Inc..............                -         28,424
                                                                                        -------------  -------------
                                                                                        $     212,306  $     194,324
                                                                                        =============  =============

                         LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
   Accounts payable.................................................................    $       3,530  $       6,063
   Accrued compensation and related expenses........................................            2,752          1,246
   Net liabilities associated with discontinued operations of ISP Channel, Inc......           37,711              -
   Net liabilities associated with discontinued operations of Aerzone Corporation...           18,884              -
   Other accrued expenses...........................................................            3,250          1,635
   Current portion of long-term debt................................................            2,161          1,518
                                                                                        -------------  -------------
Total current liabilities...........................................................           68,288         10,462

Long-term debt, net of current portion..............................................            2,104         16,653
Business acquisition liability......................................................            2,000          3,500
                                                                                        -------------  -------------
Total liabilities...................................................................           72,392         30,615
                                                                                        -------------  -------------

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' equity:
   Preferred stock, $0.10 par value, 3,970,000 shares designated, no shares issued
     and outstanding................................................................                -              -
   Common stock, $0.01 par value, 100,000,000 shares authorized; 28,523,474 (2000)
     and 17,225,523 (1999) shares issued and outstanding............................              264            172
   Additional-paid-in capital.......................................................          503,802        327,445
   Deferred stock compensation......................................................          (28,577)       (63,346)
   Accumulated other comprehensive loss.............................................             (696)          (315)
   Accumulated deficit..............................................................         (332,600)      (100,247)
   Treasury stock, at cost, 409,500 (2000) and no 1999 shares ......................           (2,279)             -
                                                                                        -------------  -------------
Total stockholders' equity..........................................................          139,914        163,709
                                                                                        -------------  -------------
                                                                                        $     212,306  $     194,324
                                                                                        =============  =============
<FN>
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>

                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                      Consolidated Statements of Operations
                      (In thousands, except per share data)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                             Year Ended September 30,
                                                                        -----------------------------------
                                                                          2000         1999          1998
                                                                        ---------    ---------    ---------
<S>                                                                     <C>          <C>          <C>
Net sales ...........................................................   $   9,927    $   1,584    $    --
Cost of sales .......................................................      10,465        1,449         --
                                                                        ---------    ---------    ---------
   Gross profit (loss) ..............................................        (538)         135         --
                                                                        ---------    ---------    ---------
Operating expenses:
   Selling and marketing, exclusive of non-cash compensation expense
     (benefit) of $(166) (2000), $166 (1999) and $0 (1998) ..........       4,986          553         --
   Engineering, exclusive of non-cash compensation expense of $55
     (2000), $199 (1999) and $0 (1998) ..............................       4,323          429         --
   General and administrative, exclusive of non-cash compensation
     expense of $14,668 (2000), $8,173 (1999) and $27 (1998) ........      12,755        8,165        1,866
   Depreciation .....................................................         987          357           84
   Amortization .....................................................       2,297        1,531         --
   Non-cash compensation related to stock options ...................      14,557        8,538           27
                                                                        ---------    ---------    ---------


Total operating expenses ............................................      39,905       19,573        1,977
                                                                        ---------    ---------    ---------
Loss from continuing operations before other income (expense), income
   taxes and discontinued operations ................................     (40,443)     (19,438)      (1,977)

Other income (expense):
   Interest income ..................................................      11,843        3,617          112
   Interest expense .................................................        (526)      (4,716)        (966)
   Equity in net losses of investee companies .......................        (581)        --           --
   Gain on disposition of long-term equity investments, net .........      10,157         --           --
   Other expense, net ...............................................      (1,004)      (1,390)        (173)
                                                                        ---------    ---------    ---------
Loss from continuing operations before income taxes and discontinued
   operations, net of tax ...........................................     (20,554)     (21,927)      (3,004)

Provision for income taxes ..........................................        --           --           --
                                                                        ---------    ---------    ---------

Loss from continuing operations .....................................     (20,554)     (21,927)      (3,004)

Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax .......................     (72,399)     (29,902)     (13,998)
Gain (loss) on disposition of discontinued operations, net of tax ...    (139,400)       1,820         --
                                                                        ---------    ---------    ---------
Net loss ............................................................    (232,353)     (50,009)     (17,002)

Preferred dividends .................................................        --           (473)        (343)
                                                                        ---------    ---------    ---------
Net loss applicable to common shares ................................   $(232,353)   $ (50,482)   $ (17,345)
                                                                        =========    =========    =========
Basic and diluted loss per common share:

   Loss from continuing operations applicable to common shares.......    $  (0.87)   $   (1.78)   $   (0.41)
   Discontinued operations...........................................       (9.01)       (2.27)       (1.89)
   Preferred dividends...............................................          --        (0.04)       (0.05)
                                                                        ---------    ---------    ---------
   Net loss applicable to common shares..............................    $  (9.88)   $   (4.09)   $   (2.35)
                                                                        =========    =========    =========

Shares used to compute basic and diluted loss per common share.......      23,518       12,342        7,391
                                                                        =========    =========    =========
<FN>
                     See accompanying notes to consolidated
                             financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
            Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity (Deficit)
                                 (In thousands)

                                                                                                          Accumulated
                                                              Common Stock        Additional   Deferred     Other
                                                         -----------------------   Paid in      Stock     Comprehen-
                                                            Shares       Amount    Capital   Compensation  sive Loss
                                                         -----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
<S>                                                           <C>    <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Balance, September 30, 1997..........................          6,871  $       69  $   34,379  $        -  $        -

  Common stock shares issued in connection with:
   Conversion of convertible subordinated notes......            185           2       1,116           -           -
   Conversion of preferred shares....................            299           3       1,663           -           -
   Exercise of warrants..............................            684           7       3,879           -           -
   Exercise of stock options.........................            152           1         830           -           -
  Common stock warrants issued with preferred stock..              -           -       1,612           -           -
  Dividends paid on preferred shares:
   Additional preferred shares.......................              -           -           -           -           -
   Cash..............................................              -           -           -           -           -
   Common stock......................................              1           -           6           -           -
  Deferred stock compensation........................              -           -         215        (215)          -
  Amortization of deferred stock compensation........              -           -           -          27           -
  Net loss...........................................              -           -           -           -           -
                                                         -----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------

Balance, September 30, 1998..........................          8,192          82      43,700        (188)          -


  Common stock shares issued in connection with:
   Secondary public offering, net of issuance costs..          4,600          46     141,456           -            -
   Non-public offering, net of selling costs.........            660           7      23,908           -            -
   Acquisition of Intelligent Communications, Inc....            500           5       7,464           -            -
   Purchase of prepaid license fees..................             66           1         999           -            -
   Repayment of short-term debt......................              6           -         190           -            -
   Cable incentive program...........................             14           -         337           -            -
   Conversion of convertible subordinated notes......             71           1         489           -            -
   Conversion of preferred shares....................          2,034          20      18,234           -            -
   Penalty paid on preferred shares..................             55           -         498           -            -
   Exercise of warrants..............................            572           6       5,273           -            -
   Exercise of stock options.........................            441           4       2,785           -            -
  Common stock warrants issued with new debt.........              -           -       4,334           -            -
  Value assigned to beneficial conversion feature of
   debt..............................................              -           -       1,529           -            -
  Dividends paid on preferred shares:
   Additional preferred shares.......................              -           -           -           -            -
   Cash..............................................              -           -           -           -            -
   Common stock......................................             15           -         157           -            -
  Deferred stock compensation........................              -           -      79,313     (79,313)           -
  Reversal of deferred stock compensation charge due
   to employee termination...........................              -           -      (3,221)      3,221            -
  Amortization of deferred stock compensation........              -           -           -      12,934            -
  Unrealized losses on securities....................              -           -           -           -         (315)
  Net loss...........................................              -           -           -           -            -
                                                         -----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  -----------

Balance, September 30, 1999..........................         17,226         172     327,445     (63,346)       (315)


  Common stock shares issued in connection with:
   Non-public offering, net of selling costs.........          5,000          50     128,071           -            -
   Acquisition of Laptop Lane Limited................          1,205          12      18,398           -            -
   Acquisition of Intelligent Communications, Inc.
    (Anniversary Shares).............................             43           -       1,499           -            -
   Repayment of long-term debt.......................             77           1       1,861           -            -
   Cable incentive program, Mediacom LLC.............          3,500           -           -           -            -
   Value assigned to cable incentive program, Mediacom
    LLC..............................................              -          14      26,499           -            -
   Cable incentive program, other....................             35           -         419           -            -
   Conversion of convertible subordinated notes......            767           8       9,941           -            -
   Exercise of warrants..............................            200           2       1,536           -            -
   Exercise of options...............................            455           5       3,666           -            -
   Employee stock purchase plan......................             15           -         145           -            -
  Value assigned to beneficial conversion feature of
   debt..............................................              -           -          34           -           -
  Common stock repurchased...........................              -           -           -           -            -
  Reversal of deferred stock compensation charge due
   to employee termination...........................              -           -     (15,712)     15,712            -
  Amortization of deferred stock compensation........              -           -           -      19,057            -
  Unrealized losses on securities....................              -           -           -           -        (385)
  Foreign currency translation adjustment............              -           -           -           -            4
  Net loss...........................................              -           -           -           -           -
                                                         -----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------

Balance, September 30, 2000..........................         28,523  $      264  $  503,802  $  (28,577) $     (696)
                                                         ===========  ==========  ==========  =========== ===========
<FN>
                     See accompanying notes to consolidated
                             financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>

<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
      Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity (Deficit)-- continued
                                 (In thousands)

                                                                                               Total
                                                                         Treasury Stock     Stockholders'
                                                         Accumulated ----------------------     Equity   Comprehensive
                                                           Deficit      Shares      Amount     (Deficit)      Loss
                                                         ----------  ----------  ----------  -----------  -----------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>        <C>         <C>          <C>
Balance, September 30, 1997..........................    $  (32,420)          -  $        -  $     2,028

  Common stock shares issued in connection with:
   Conversion of convertible subordinated notes......             -           -           -        1,118
   Conversion of preferred shares....................             -           -           -        1,666
   Exercise of warrants..............................             -           -           -        3,886
   Exercise of stock options.........................             -           -           -          831
  Common stock warrants issued with preferred stock..             -           -           -        1,612
  Dividends paid on preferred shares:
   Additional preferred shares.......................          (257)          -           -         (257)
   Cash..............................................           (80)          -           -          (80)
   Common stock......................................            (6)          -           -            -
  Deferred stock compensation........................             -           -           -            -
  Amortization of deferred stock compensation........             -           -           -           27
  Net loss...........................................       (17,002)          -           -      (17,002) $  (17,002)
                                                         ----------  ----------  ----------  -----------  -----------

Balance, September 30, 1998..........................       (49,765)          -           -       (6,171) $  (17,002)
                                                                                                          ===========

  Common stock shares issued in connection with:
   Secondary public offering, net of issuance costs..             -           -           -      141,502
   Non-public offering, net of selling costs.........             -           -           -       23,915
   Acquisition of Intelligent Communications, Inc....             -           -           -        7,469
   Purchase of prepaid license fees..................             -           -           -        1,000
   Repayment of short-term debt......................             -           -           -          190
   Cable incentive program...........................             -           -           -          337
   Conversion of convertible subordinated notes......             -           -           -          490
   Conversion of preferred shares....................             -           -           -       18,254
   Penalty paid on preferred shares..................             -           -           -          498
   Exercise of warrants..............................             -           -           -        5,279
   Exercise of stock options.........................             -           -           -        2,789
  Common stock warrants issued with new debt.........             -           -           -        4,334
  Value assigned to beneficial conversion feature of
   debt..............................................             -           -           -        1,529
  Dividends paid on preferred shares:
   Additional preferred shares.......................          (221)          -           -         (221)
   Cash..............................................           (95)          -           -          (95)
   Common stock......................................          (157)          -           -            -
  Deferred stock compensation........................             -           -           -            -
  Reversal of deferred stock compensation charge due
   to employee termination...........................             -           -           -            -
  Amortization of deferred stock compensation........             -           -           -       12,934
  Unrealized losses on securities....................             -           -           -         (315) $     (315)
  Net loss...........................................       (50,009)          -           -      (50,009)    (50,009)
                                                         ----------  ----------  ----------  -----------  -----------

Balance, September 30, 1999..........................      (100,247)          -           -      163,709  $  (50,324)
                                                                                                          ===========

  Common stock shares issued in connection with:
   Non-public offering, net of selling costs.........             -           -           -      128,121
   Acquisition of Laptop Lane Limited................             -           -           -       18,410
   Acquisition of Intelligent Communications, Inc.
    (Anniversary Shares).............................             -           -           -        1,499
   Repayment of long-term debt.......................             -           -           -        1,862
   Cable incentive program, Mediacom LLC.............             -           -           -            -
   Value assigned to cable incentive program, Mediacom
    LLC..............................................             -           -           -       26,513
   Cable incentive program, other....................             -           -           -          419
   Conversion of convertible subordinated notes......             -           -           -        9,949
   Exercise of warrants..............................             -           -           -        1,538
   Exercise of options...............................             -           -           -        3,671
   Employee stock purchase plan......................             -           -           -          145
  Value assigned to beneficial conversion feature of
   debt..............................................             -           -           -           34
  Common stock repurchased...........................             -         409      (2,279)      (2,279)
  Reversal of deferred stock compensation charge due
   to employee termination...........................             -           -           -            -
  Amortization of deferred stock compensation........             -           -           -       19,057
  Unrealized losses on securities....................             -           -           -         (385) $     (385)
  Foreign currency translation adjustment............             -           -           -            4           4
  Net loss...........................................      (232,353)          -           -     (232,353)   (232,353)
                                                         ----------- ----------  ----------  ------------ -----------

Balance, September 30, 2000..........................    $ (332,600)        409  $   (2,279) $   139,914  $ (232,734)
                                                         =========== ==========  =========== ===========  ===========
<FN>
                     See accompanying notes to consolidated
                             financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                                 (In thousands)

                                                                                      Year Ended September 30,
                                                                               ---------------------------------------
                                                                                  2000          1999         1998
                                                                               ------------ ------------- ------------
<S>                                                                            <C>          <C>           <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
   Net loss................................................................    $  (232,353) $   (50,009)  $   (17,002)
   Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in operating
     activities:
     Loss from discontinued operations.....................................         72,399       29,902        13,998
     (Gain) loss on disposal of discontinued operations....................        139,400       (1,820)            -
     Depreciation and amortization.........................................          3,284        1,888            84
     Amortization of deferred stock compensation...........................         14,557        8,538            27
     Amortization of deferred debt issuance costs..........................             59        3,181             -
     Provision for doubtful accounts.......................................            233           31             -
     Provision for inventory losses........................................            118            -             -
     Loss on long-term equity investment...................................            581            -             -
     Loss on disposition of long-term equity investment....................             25            -             -
     (Gain) loss on disposition of short-term investment...................        (10,321)         600             -
     Interest paid with additional convertible notes.......................             69          549             -
     Charges incurred upon conversion of redeemable convertible preferred
       stock to common stock...............................................              -          498             -
     Loss on disposition of property and equipment.........................            162            -           118
     Changes in operating assets and liabilities (net of effect of
       acquisitions and discontinued operations):
       Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable, net.....................         (5,960)         (67)          120
       Decrease (increase) in inventory....................................         (4,210)         (36)            -
       Decrease (increase) in other current assets.........................           (555)        (491)           69
       Increase in other assets............................................           (567)        (225)         (755)
       Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and accrued expenses........          1,937        6,602          (417)
                                                                               -----------  -----------   -----------
Net cash used in operating activities of continuing operations.............        (21,142)        (859)       (3,758)
                                                                               -----------  -----------   -----------
Net cash used in operating activities of discontinued operations...........        (49,751)     (22,038)       (1,911)
                                                                               ------------ ------------  -----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
   Payment for purchase of short-term investments..........................        (69,849)     (53,002)            -
   Payment for purchase of Laptop Lane Limited, net of cash acquired.......         (1,867)           -             -
   Payment for purchase of Intelligent Communications, Inc., net of cash
     acquired..............................................................              -         (803)            -
   Payments for purchase of long-term equity investments...................         (7,047)        (500)            -
   Payment for purchase of property and equipment..........................         (4,442)      (2,422)           (2)
   Payment for purchase of intangibles.....................................            (10)           -             -
   Disbursement for promissory notes issued................................         (6,600)           -             -
   Proceeds from sale of net assets from discontinued operations, net of
     selling costs.........................................................              -        8,870             -
   Proceeds from sale of short-term investments............................          2,500            -             -
   Proceeds from sale of property and equipment............................          1,302            -             -
   Payment received on note receivable.....................................          1,000            -             -
                                                                               -----------  -----------   -----------


Net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations.............        (85,013)     (47,857)           (2)
                                                                               -----------  -----------   -----------
Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations...........        (17,165)     (19,803)       (5,773)
                                                                               -----------  -----------   -----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
   Proceeds from sale of common stock, net of selling costs................        128,121      156,492             -
   Proceeds from exercise of warrants......................................          1,538        5,279         3,886
   Proceeds from exercise of options and purchases by employee stock
     ownership plan........................................................          3,816        2,789           831
   Payment for fractional shares related to anniversary issuance of common
     stock to former Intelligent Communications, Inc. stockholders.........             (1)           -             -
   Payments for additional costs of issuance of redeemable convertible
     preferred stock.......................................................              -         (154)            -
   Payment of preferred dividend...........................................              -          (95)          (80)
   Payment for purchase of treasury stock..................................         (2,279)           -             -
   Proceeds from issuance of redeemable convertible preferred stock, net of
     selling costs.........................................................              -            -        21,208
   Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt, net of deferred financing costs             -       11,884             -
   Borrowings under revolving credit facility..............................              -       18,285        16,089
   Payments under revolving credit facility................................              -      (23,383)      (16,891)
   Principal payments of long-term debt....................................         (1,294)      (1,431)         (106)
   Principal payments of capital lease obligations.........................              -            -           (12)
                                                                               -----------  -----------   -----------
Net cash provided by financing activities of continuing operations.........        129,901      169,666        24,925
                                                                               -----------  -----------   -----------
Net cash used in financing activities of discontinued operations...........         (1,598)      (2,114)       (1,014)
                                                                               -----------  -----------   -----------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents.......................        (44,768)      76,995        12,467
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period.............................         89,499       12,504            37
                                                                               -----------  -----------   -----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of period...................................    $    44,731  $    89,499   $    12,504
                                                                               ===========  ===========   ===========
<FN>
                     See accompanying notes to consolidated
                             financial statements.
</FN>
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1.       Nature of Business

SoftNet Systems, Inc. ("SoftNet") and Subsidiaries  (collectively referred to as
the  "Company")  is engaged in the  business  of  providing  broadband  Internet
services.  The Company currently operates one business segment,  satellite-based
Internet  services and very small aperture  terminal  ("VSAT")  equipment  sales
through  its  wholly  owned   subsidiary,   Intelligent   Communications,   Inc.
("Intellicom"). Intellicom was acquired on February 9, 1999 (see Note 3) and the
results of its  operations  have been  included  in the  consolidated  financial
statements since its acquisition.  Four previously  reported business  segments,
business center services, cable-based Internet services, document management and
telecommunications, are in process of ceasing operations or have been sold , and
accordingly are reported as discontinued operations (see Note 3).

Key Technology Suppliers


The Company  currently  depends on a limited number of suppliers for certain key
technologies  used to build and  manage the  Company's  services.  Although  the
Company  believes  that  there  are  alternative  suppliers  for  each of  these
technologies,  the Company has established favorable  relationships with each of
its  current  suppliers  and it  could  take a  significant  period  of  time to
establish   relationships  with  alternative   suppliers  and  substitute  their
technologies.


2.       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated  financial  statements  include the accounts of SoftNet and its
wholly  owned   subsidiaries.   All   significant   intercompany   balances  and
transactions  have  been  eliminated  in the  preparation  of  the  consolidated
financial statements.

Restatements and Reclassifications


The financial  statements have been restated for the effects of the discontinued
operations  of  the  cable-based  Internet  services,  document  management  and
telecommunications  segments (see Note3).  Certain  reclassifications  have been
made to prior  years'  financial  statements  in order to conform to the current
year presentation.


Use of Estimates and Assumptions

The  preparation  of  consolidated   financial  statements  in  conformity  with
generally accepted  accounting  principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions  that affect the reported  amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of  contingent  assets and  liabilities  at the date of the financial
statements  and the reported  amounts of the  revenues  and expenses  during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Foreign Currency Translation

The adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency financial
statements  into U.S.  Dollars are included in accumulated  other  comprehensive
loss of the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Cash, Cash Equivalents, Short-term Investments and Restricted Cash


The Company  considers all highly liquid  investments  with  maturities of three
months  or  less  from  date of  purchase  to be  cash  equivalents.  Short-term
investments   generally  consist  of  highly  liquid  securities  with  original
maturities in excess of three months.  The Company has classified its short-term
investments as available-for-sale  securities.  These short-term investments are
carried at fair value based on quoted  market prices with  unrealized  gains and
losses  reported in accumulated  other  comprehensive  loss of the  accompanying
consolidated balance sheets. Realized gains and losses on short-term investments
are computed using the specific  identification method and are reported in other
income (expense) of the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.


The Company has pledged cash as collateral on several letters of credit relating
to certain operating leases.  These amounts are classified as restricted cash in
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial  instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist primarily of trade  receivables,  cash and cash equivalents,
and  short-term  investments.  One customer  comprised  82% of the Company's net
revenue for the year ended  September 30, 2000.  Accounts  receivable  from this
customer at September 30, 2000, was  $5,524,000.  For the years ended  September
30, 1999 and 1998, no other customer accounted for more than 10% of revenues.
<PAGE>

Cash,  cash  equivalents  and short-term  investments  are managed by recognized
financial  institutions,  which follow the  Company's  investment  policy.  Such
investment  policy limits the amount of credit exposure in any one issue and the
maturity date of the investment  securities that typically  comprise  investment
grade short-term debt instruments.

Inventory

Inventory  consists  of  finished  goods  and is  stated at the lower of cost or
market. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out method.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment,  including leasehold improvements, are recorded at cost.
When  property and  equipment is retired or otherwise  disposed of, the cost and
related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the resulting
gain  or  loss  is  included  in  other  income  (expense)  of the  accompanying
consolidated   statements  of   operations.   Depreciation   is  computed  on  a
straight-line  basis over the estimated  useful lives of three to seven years or
the life of the lease, whichever is shorter.

Intangibles


Intangibles  consists of acquired  technology  resulting from the acquisition of
Intellicom  and the  acquisition  of a  domain  name  (see  Note 7),  which  are
amortized  on a  straight-line  basis over the  estimated  useful lives of seven
years and eight years, respectively.


Deferred Debt Issuance Costs

Costs  related to the issuance of new debt,  including the value of the warrants
issued in connection  with such debt, are  capitalized and amortized to interest
expense using the effective interest method over the life of the debt.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments


The fair value of the Company's financial  instruments  (including cash and cash
equivalents, short-term investments, trade receivables and accounts payable) are
estimated to approximate the carrying values due to their short maturities.  The
fair value of current and long-term debt approximates  carrying value based upon
borrowing rates  currently  available to the Company for borrowings with similar
terms.


Revenue Recognition


Revenue from the satellite-based Internet services segment consists primarily of
(i)  monthly  service  fees,  (ii)  VSAT  related  equipment  sales,  and  (iii)
installation  charges.  Service fees are  recognized as the service is provided.
Payments received in advance of providing services are deferred until the period
such services are provided.  Equipment sales are recognized upon  fulfillment of
contractual  obligations  of the sale, and  installation  charges are recognized
when installation is complete.


Income Taxes


The Company  recognizes  its tax  expense/benefit  in accordance to Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes.  Deferred
tax liabilities and assets are provided for the expected future tax consequences
of events and transactions that have been recognized in the Company's  financial
statements or tax returns.  The Company  currently has substantial net operating
loss carryforwards.  The Company has recorded a 100% valuation allowance against
net deferred tax assets due to uncertainty of their  ultimate  realization  (see
Note 16).


Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share


Basic earnings  (loss) per common share are computed using the weighted  average
number of common stock shares  outstanding  during the period.  Diluted earnings
(loss) per common share are computed using the weighted average number of common
stock shares and common stock equivalents  shares outstanding during the period.
Common stock equivalents consist of convertible preferred stock (using the as if
converted  method) stock options and stock  warrants  (using the treasury  stock
method).  Common stock  equivalents  have been excluded from the  computation of
diluted earnings per share for all periods presented, as their effect would have
been anti-dilutive.


Stock Option Plans

The Company accounts for employee  stock-based  compensation using the intrinsic
value method, as prescribed by Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25 ("APB
25"),  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.  As such, deferred compensation
is recorded only if the exercise price of the option is below the current market
price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant.  Deferred compensation
expense for employee  stock options is amortized on a  straight-line  basis over
the vesting term of the option, which typically is four years.
<PAGE>

The Company accounts for non-employee  stock-based  compensation  using the fair
value method, as required by Statement of Financial  Accounting Standard No. 123
("SFAS  123"),  Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation.  As  such,  deferred
compensation  is recorded for all  non-employee  stock options as of the date of
grant. Deferred compensation expense for non-employee stock options is amortized
on an accelerated basis, as prescribed by Financial  Interpretation No. 28 ("FIN
28"),  Accounting for Stock Appreciation  Rights and Other Variable Stock Option
or Award Plans, over the contractual life of the option.

Impairment of Long-lived Assets


The  Company  evaluates  long-lived  assets for  impairment  whenever  events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be
recoverable  based on  expected  undiscounted  cash flows  attributable  to that
asset.  The amount of any impairment is measured as the  difference  between the
carrying  value and the fair value of the impaired  asset.  The Company does not
have any long-lived  assets as part of continuing  operations it considers to be
impaired.


Recent Accounting Pronouncements


In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin  No. 101 ("SAB 101"),  Revenue  Recognition  in  Financial  Statements.
Implementation  is scheduled for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1999,
which would be effective for the Company  beginning in fiscal year 2001. SAB 101
addresses  various topics in revenue  recognition  including the  recognition of
revenue for contracts  involving  multiple  deliverables.  Based on Management's
current  understanding  and  interpretation,  SAB 101 is not  expected to have a
material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements.


In June 2000, the FASB issued  Statement of Financial  Accounting  Standards No.
138 ("FASB 138"),  Accounting  for Certain  Derivative  Instruments  and Certain
Hedging  Activities,  an amendment to FASB Statement No. 133 ("FASB 133").  FASB
138 addresses a limited number of issues causing implementation difficulties for
companies  that are  required  to apply FASB 133.  FASB 133,  as amended by FASB
Statement No. 137, Accounting for Derivative  Instruments and Hedging Activities
- - Deferral of the effective date of FASB Statement No. 133, is effective for all
fiscal  quarters of all fiscal years  beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company
believes  that  FASB 133 and FASB 138  will not have a  material  impact  on its
financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

3.       Acquisitions and Discontinued Operations

Acquisition of Intellicom

On February 9, 1999, a wholly owned  subsidiary  of the Company  merged with and
into  Intelligent   Communications,   Inc.  ("Intellicom"  and  the  "Intellicom
Acquisition").  The purchase price of  $14,869,000  was comprised of: (i) a cash
component of $500,000 (the "Cash Consideration");  (ii) a promissory note in the
amount of $1,000,000  bearing  interest at 7.5% per annum and due one year after
closing (the "First Promissory Note");  (iii) a promissory note in the amount of
$2,000,000  bearing  interest at 8.5% per annum and due two years after  closing
(the "Second  Promissory  Note",  together with the First  Promissory  Note, the
"Debt  Consideration");  (iv) the  issuance of 500,000  shares of the  Company's
common  stock  (adjustable  upwards  after one year in  certain  circumstances),
valued at $14.938  per share,  for a total  value of  $7,469,000  (the  "Closing
Shares");  (v) additional shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon the
first,  second  and third  anniversaries  of the  closing,  valued at a total of
$3,500,000 (the  "Anniversary  Shares",  together with the Closing  Shares,  the
"Equity  Consideration");  and (vi) certain  direct  acquisition  costs totaling
$400,000.  The Debt  Consideration may be partially or wholly converted into the
Company's common stock, under certain circumstances. The conversion price of the
Debt  Consideration  is based upon the average  closing  price of the  Company's
common stock for the 15 days immediately preceding the conversion date. Both the
Debt  Consideration  and the Equity  Consideration  were  issued in a  nonpublic
offering  pursuant to  transactions  exempt under Section 4(2) of the Securities
Act.  In April  1999,  the Company  paid the First  Promissory  Note and related
interest  in full  with a  combination  of cash and  equity.  The  Company  paid
$832,000 in cash and the  remainder,  after  expenses,  with 6,118  common stock
shares valued at $190,000.  The Intellicom  acquisition  agreement  requires the
Company to issue $1,500,000 of common stock shares on the first anniversary date
of the  Intellicom acquisition.  Accordingly,  on February 8, 2000,  the Company
issued  43,314  common stock  shares  valued at  $1,499,000  and paid $1,000 for
fractional shares to the former  shareholders of Intellicom.  Additionally,  the
Intellicom  Acquisition agreement includes a demonstration bonus ("Demonstration
Bonus") of $1,000,000 payable in cash or shares of the Company's common stock at
the Company's option by the first anniversary date of the Intellicom Acquisition
if certain  conditions are met. On February 8, 2000, the opportunity to earn the
Demonstration Bonus had expired, and accordingly the Demonstration Bonus was not
paid or included in the purchase price of Intellicom.
<PAGE>


The purchase price,  including direct  acquisition  costs, has been allocated to
assets acquired and  liabilities  assumed based on fair market value at the date
of acquisition.  The fair value of assets  acquired and  liabilities  assumed is
summarized as follows (in thousands):


        Current assets............................    $         503
        Property and equipment....................              684
        Acquired technology.......................           16,075
        Other assets..............................               77
        Current liabilities.......................            2,470

The Company  accounted for the Intellicom  Acquisition using the purchase method
and  allocated  the  purchase  price  of  $14,469,000  to  acquired  technology.
Additionally,  due to the negative fair value of Intellicom's  net assets at the
time of acquisition,  the Company recognized  additional  acquired technology in
Intellicom totaling $1,206,000.  Furthermore,  in connection with the Intellicom
Acquisition,  the Company incurred certain fees and expenses.  Such costs, which
total  $400,000,  were  capitalized  and have also been  allocated  to  acquired
technology,  bringing  the total  amount  allocated  to acquired  technology  to
$16,075,000.  The  results of  operations  of  Intellicom  are  included  in the
accompanying financial statements from the date of acquisition.

The nature of the  developed  technology  acquired  provides  the Company with a
proprietary  satellite  system,  involving  both  hardware and  software,  which
provides a high-performance,  two-way  satellite-based  Internet access service.
The nature of the  acquired  technology  will,  among  other  things,  allow the
Company to lower the costs of bringing the Internet  customers.  The  technology
acquired has already been tested and proven to be a viable business.  Therefore,
the Company believes that the underlying  technology  acquired in the Intellicom
Acquisition is not subject to rapid change,  and such acquired  technology  will
support the  Company's  business  plan over the typical  length of its contracts
without having to significantly change or enhance the acquired  technology.  The
Company's  contracts  with its cable  affiliates  typically run from five to ten
years.  In determining  how much of the purchase price in excess of the tangible
book value of  Intellicom  to  allocate  to  acquired  technology,  the  Company
considered that there was little value  ascribable to other  intangible  assets,
such as  customer  lists  or  workforce.  Rather,  the  Company,  after  careful
consideration,  determined that the fair market value of the acquired technology
is equivalent to the intangible assets acquired in this acquisition. The Company
amortizes  this  amount  using the  straight-line  method over a period of seven
years,  the average term of a typical  cable  affiliate  contract as well as the
anticipated useful life of this acquired technology.

Acquisition of Laptop Lane, Formation of Aerzone and Discontinued  Operations of
Aerzone


On January 24, 2000, the Company founded Aerzone  (formerly SoftNet Zone, Inc.),
a  Delaware  corporation,  to provide  high-speed  Internet  access and  related
services to global  business  travelers.  As part of the Aerzone  business,  the
Company acquired Laptop Lane, a Washington  corporation,  on April 21, 2000. The
acquisition  was  accounted  for under the  purchase  method and the  results of
Laptop Lane are included in the consolidated financial statements since the date
of acquisition. Laptop Lane is a leading provider of business center services in
airports. The Company paid approximately $21,559,000,  consisting of (i) 972,266
common stock shares of the Company valued at $15,107,000,  net of adjustment for
expenses  paid by the  Company  on  behalf  of Laptop  Lane,  exchanged  for all
outstanding common stock shares of Laptop Lane, (ii) direct acquisition costs of
approximately  $2,300,000,  which  includes  a  bonus  payment  to  Laptop  Lane
employees for $431,000 in lieu of Laptop Lane stock  options,  and (iii) 250,000
common stock shares of the Company  valued at  $3,652,000 to be issued to former
Laptop Lane stockholders in payment for achieving  certain criteria.  As part of
the acquisition,  an additional 333,333 common stock shares of the Company would
be distributed to former Laptop Lane  stockholders if certain  performance goals
or other  criteria are met. As of September  30, 2000,  Laptop Lane has achieved
three of the four performance  goals, as a result 249,981 common stock shares of
the Company  and cash for a total value of  $3,652,000  was  distributed  to the
former Laptop Lane stockholders. The fourth performance goal requirement was met
in October 2000, as a result,  upon the  resolution  of certain  claims  against
Laptop Lane, all or a portion of the remaining 83,333 common stock shares of the
Company  valued at  $500,000  was  accrued  for and will be issued to the former
Laptop Lane  stockholders.  Additionally,  prior to the  acquisition the Company
provided $6,000,000 in working capital to Laptop Lane under a secured promissory
note,  which  was  included  as part of the  purchase  price  consideration  for
determining allocation.

<PAGE>

The purchase price,  including direct  acquisition  costs, has been allocated to
assets  acquired  and  liabilities  assumed  based on fair  value at the date of
acquisition.  The  allocation  of purchase  price  includes  goodwill,  which is
amortized  on a  straight-line  basis over four years.  The fair value of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed is summarized as follows (in thousands):


        Current assets............................      $     1,707
        Property and equipment, net...............            4,478
        Goodwill..................................           23,195
        Other assets..............................              128
        Current liabilities.......................              806
        Other liabilities.........................            7,843


Subsequently,  on December  19, 2000,  the Company  decided to  discontinue  the
Aerzone  business  in light  of  significant  long-term  capital  needs  and the
difficulty of securing the necessary  financing  because of the current state of
the financial markets.  The plan includes a reduction in personnel.  The Company
anticipates that it will sell Laptop Lane. The operating  results of Aerzone has
been  segregated  from  continuing  operations  and is  reported  as  loss  from
discontinued operations, net of tax on the consolidated statement of operations.
Although  it  is  difficult  to  predict  the  final  results,   the  loss  from
discontinued  operations includes  management's  estimates of costs to wind down
the business, costs to settle its outstanding liabilities, and the proceeds from
the sale of assets  including  Laptop  Lane.  The actual  results  could  differ
materially from these  estimates.  The assets and liabilities of such operations
are reflected as net  liabilities  associated  with  discontinued  operations of
Aerzone on the consolidated balance sheets as of September 30, 2000.


Operating  results of Aerzone  from  January 24,  2000,  date of  inception,  to
September 30, 2000 is as follows (in thousands):

        Revenues..................................    $       2,163
                                                      =============
        Loss before income taxes..................    $     (12,150)
        Provision for income taxes................                -
                                                      -------------
        Net loss..................................    $     (12,150)
                                                      ==============


Net liabilities associated with discontinued  operations of Aerzone at September
30, 2000, is as follows (in thousands):


      Current assets:
         Accounts receivable, net............................    $          376
         Inventory...........................................               326
         Other current assets................................             1,149
                                                                 --------------

      Total current assets...................................             1,851


      Property, plant and equipment, net.....................             4,226
      Other assets...........................................               241
                                                                 --------------

      Total assets...........................................    $        6,318
                                                                 ==============


      Current liabilities:

         Accounts Payable....................................    $        1,884
         Estimated  net  operating  loss from
            October  1, 2000 through closure date............            12,720
         Estimated contract termination costs................             2,955
         Estimated retention and severance costs.............             2,547
         Accrued expenses....................................             3,654
         Laptop Lane Limited acquisition reserve                          1,329
         Current portion of long-term debt...................               113
                                                                 --------------

      Total current liabilities..............................    $       25,202
                                                                 ==============
      Net liabilities associated with discontinued operations    $      (18,884)
                                                                 ===============

<PAGE>

Discontinued Operations of ISP Channel, Inc.


On  December  7,  2000,  the  Company's  Board of  Directors  approved a plan to
discontinue  providing  cable-based  Internet  services through its ISP Channel,
Inc.   ("ISP   Channel")   subsidiary  by  December  31,  2000  because  of  (1)
consolidation in the cable television industry made it difficult for ISP Channel
to achieve the economies of scale necessary to provide such services profitably,
and (2) the Company was no longer able to bear the costs of maintaining  the ISP
Channel.  The  operating  results  of  ISP  Channel  has  been  segregated  from
continuing operations and is reported as loss from discontinued operations,  net
of tax on the consolidated statements of operations. Although it is difficult to
predict  the final  results,  the loss  from  discontinued  operations  includes
management's  estimates of costs to wind down the business,  costs to settle its
outstanding  liabilities,  and the proceeds from the sale of assets.  The actual
results could differ materially from these estimates. The assets and liabilities
of such  operations were reflected as net assets  (liabilities)  associated with
discontinued operations of ISP Channel as of September 30, 2000 and 1999.


Operating results of ISP Channel are as follows (in thousands):

                                                Year Ended September 30,
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                          2000           1999          1998
                                      -------------- ------------- -------------
Revenues............................  $       6,039  $      2,550  $      1,018
                                      =============  ============  ============
Loss before income taxes............  $     (60,249) $    (29,440) $     (8,272)
Provision for income taxes..........              -             -             -
                                      -------------  ------------  ------------
Net loss............................  $     (60,249) $    (29,440) $     (8,272)
                                      ============== ============  ============


Net assets (liabilities)  associated with discontinued operations of ISP Channel
at September 30, 2000 and 1999, are as follows (in thousands):


                                                              September 30,
                                                      ------------------------
                                                          2000         1999
                                                      -----------  -----------
  Current assets:
     Accounts receivable, net.......................  $     1,000  $       685
     Inventory, net.................................        2,701        1,955
     Other current assets...........................          469        1,068
                                                      -----------  -----------
  Total current assets..............................        4,170        3,708

  Property, plant and equipment, net................       12,890       24,016
  Cable affiliate launch incentives, net............            -        9,956
  Other assets......................................          222        2,244
                                                      -----------  -----------
  Total assets......................................  $    17,282  $    39,924
                                                      ===========  ===========
  Current liabilities:

     Accrued expenses...............................  $     7,836  $     6,600
     Estimated net operating loss from
        October 1, 2000 through closure date........        9,972            -
     Estimated contract termination costs...........       13,938            -
     Estimated retention and severance costs........        7,776            -
     Estimated other costs                                  1,008            -
     Current portion of long-term debt..............        1,464          567
     Current portion of capital leases..............        5,243        1,760
                                                      -----------  -----------
  Total current liabilities.........................       47,237        8,927

  Long-term debt, net of current portion............        1,615          628
  Capital lease obligation, net of current portion..        6,141        1,945
                                                      -----------  -----------

  Total liabilities.................................  $    54,993  $    11,500
                                                      ===========  ===========
  Net assets (liabilities) associated with
     discontinued operations........................  $   (37,711) $    28,424
                                                      ============ ===========
<PAGE>


Discontinued Operations of Micrographic Technology Corporation


On September  30,  1999,  the Company  sold the  document  management  business,
Micrographic Technology Corporation ("MTC"), to Global Information  Distribution
GmbH ("GID") for an aggregate  purchase  price of  approximately  $4,894,000  in
cash,  which,  after  selling  costs,  resulted in a loss of $321,000.  The sale
proceeds were used to reduce  outstanding  indebtedness  and provide  additional
working  capital.  The  operating  results  of MTC  have  been  segregated  from
continuing  operations  and are  reported as part of the loss from  discontinued
operations, net of tax on the consolidated statements of operations.

  Operating results of MTC are as follows (in thousands):

                                                       Year Ended
                                                      September 30,
                                             ------------------------------
                                                 1999            1998
                                             -------------- ---------------
        Revenues..........................   $      13,690  $       13,043
                                             =============  ==============
        Loss before income taxes..........   $        (633) $       (5,652)
        Provision for income taxes........               -               -
                                             -------------  --------------
        Net loss..........................   $        (633) $       (5,652)
                                             =============  ==============

Interest  expense  allocated  to the MTC totaled  $155,000  and $394,000 for the
years ended September 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Discontinued Operations of Kansas Communications, Inc.


On February 12, 1999,  substantially all of the assets of the telecommunications
segment,   Kansas   Communications,   Inc.  ("KCI"),  were  sold  to  Convergent
Communications  Services,  Inc.  ("Convergent  Communications") for an aggregate
purchase  price of  approximately  $6,300,000  subject to  adjustment in certain
events.  Convergent  Communications  paid $100,000 in cash in November 1998 upon
execution  of the letter of intent to  purchase  and paid the  remainder  of the
purchase  price on the closing date as follows:  (i)  $1,400,000  in cash;  (ii)
approximately 30,000 shares of Convergent  Communications' parent company common
stock with an agreed  value of  approximately  $300,000  ($10.00 per share) (the
"Convergent  Shares");  (iii) a promissory note in the amount of $2,000,000 (the
"First  Convergent  Note") bearing simple  interest at the rate of 11% per annum
and payable on July 1, 2000;  (iv) a promissory note in the amount of $1,000,000
(the "Second  Convergent  Note") bearing  simple  interest at the rate of 8% per
annum and payable 12 months  following  the closing  date ; and (v) a promissory
note in an amount of $1,500,000  (the "Third  Convergent  Note")  bearing simple
interest at the rate of 8% per annum and payable 12 months following the closing
date , which is subject to mandatory prepayment in certain events.  Furthermore,
a purchase  price  adjustment  subsequent  to closing  provided the Company with
additional  Convergent  Shares  with an  agreed  value of  $198,000  for a total
investment  in  Convergent  Shares of $498,000,  which,  after  reduction to its
current market value of $79,000 is classified as a short-term  investment in the
accompanying  consolidated balance sheet. The sale of KCI's assets resulted in a
gain of $2,141,000.  For the year ended  September 30, 1999, the First and Third
Convergent  Notes were paid in full. On November 5, 1999, the Second  Convergent
Note was paid in full.  The Company had previously  deferred the  recognition of
gain due to the uncertainty of Convergent  Communications'   ability to perform.
As a result of Convergent  Communication's successful initial public offering on
July 20, 1999, the Company recognized the gain on sale. The operating results of
KCI has been segregated from continuing  operations and is reported as loss from
discontinued   operations,   net  of  tax  on  the  consolidated  statements  of
operations.


Operating results of KCI are as follows (in thousands):

                                                    Year Ended September 30,
                                                 ------------------------------
                                                     1999            1998
                                                 -------------- ---------------
        Revenues...............................  $       4,730  $       16,065
                                                 =============  ==============
        Income before income taxes.............  $         242  $          277
        Provision for income taxes.............            (72)           (350)
                                                 -------------  --------------
        Net income (loss)......................  $         170  $          (73))
                                                 =============  ==============

Interest expense  allocated to KCI totaled $2,000 and $5,000 for the years ended
September 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

The provision  for income taxes for the years ended  September 30, 1999 and 1998
are related to prior period adjustments in deferred maintenance revenue for KCI.

<PAGE>


4.      Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments


Cash  equivalents  consist of securities with maturities of three months or less
at date of purchase. Short-term investments as of September 30, 2000, consist of
$112,182,000 of debt securities  which mature in less than one year,  $5,511,000
of  debt  securities,  which  mature  in one to five  years  and  $9,710,000  of
short-term  equity  securities.  Cash  and  cash  equivalents,   and  short-term
investments consisted of the following as of September 30, 2000 (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Unrealized      Unrealized
                                                          Cost            gain           loss           Market
                                                      -------------  --------------  -------------  --------------
<S>                                                   <C>            <C>             <C>            <C>
        Cash and cash equivalents:
           Cash...................................    $      21,025  $            -  $           -  $       21,025
           Municipal securities...................           21,913               -             (4)         21,909
           Money market funds.....................            1,797               -              -           1,797
                                                      -------------  --------------  -------------  --------------
                                                      $      44,735  $            -  $          (4) $       44,731
                                                      =============  ==============  ============== ==============
        Short-term investments:

           Municipal securities...................    $      65,365  $            -  $         (52) $       65,313
           US Treasury securities.................           35,782               -            (20)         35,762
           Auction market preferreds..............            3,411               -              -           3,411
           Foreign debt securities................           13,217               -            (10)         13,207
           Common and preferred stock.............           10,324               -           (614)          9,710
                                                      -------------  --------------  -------------  --------------
                                                      $     128,099  $            -  $        (696) $      127,403
                                                      =============   =============   ============   =============
</TABLE>

Cash  equivalents  consist of securities with maturities of three months or less
at date of purchase.  Short-term  investments as of September 30, 1999 consisted
of  $30,065,000  of  debt  securities  which  mature  in  less  than  one  year,
$22,263,000 of debt securities  which mature in one to five years,  and $258,000
of short-term  equity  securities.  Cash and cash  equivalents,  and  short-term
investments consisted of the following as of September 30, 1999 (in thousands):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      Unrealized      Unrealized
                                                          Cost            gain           loss           Market
                                                      -------------  --------------  -------------  --------------
<S>                                                   <C>            <C>             <C>            <C>
        Cash and cash equivalents:
           Cash..............................         $      40,650  $            -  $           -  $      40,650
           Municipal securities..............                40,156               -              -         40,156
           US Government Agency notes........                 5,785               -              -          5,785
           Money market funds................                 2,159               -              -          2,159
           Foreign debt securities...........                   749               -              -            749
                                                      -------------  --------------  -------------  -------------
                                                      $      89,499  $            -  $           -  $      89,499
                                                      =============  ==============  =============  =============
        Short-term investments:
           Municipal securities..............         $      23,496  $            -  $         (44) $      23,452
           US Treasury securities............                11,219               -            (11)        11,208
           Auction market preferreds.........                 9,114               -              -          9,114
           Foreign debt securities...........                 8,574               -            (20)         8,554
           Common stock......................                   498               -           (240)           258
                                                      -------------  --------------  -------------  -------------
                                                      $      52,901  $            -  $        (315) $      52,586
                                                      =============   =============   ============   ============
</TABLE>

As of  September  30, 2000 and 1999,  cost  approximated  market  value for cash
equivalents.


5.       Equity Investments


On August 18, 1999, the Company acquired 106,250 series A convertible  preferred
stock shares of  YourDay.com,  Inc.  ("YourDay"),  a Delaware  corporation,  for
$250,000.  YourDay is a leading  online  calendar  and  scheduling  system  that
seamlessly  integrates Palm Pilots,  telephones and the Internet anywhere in the
world.  As of September 30, 1999,  the  investment in YourDay is classified as a
long-term  equity  investment on the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets.
Subsequently,  on February 23, 2000,  YourDay merged with  deltathree.com,  Inc.
("Deltathree"),  a  Delaware  corporation.  The merger  called for each  YourDay
series A convertible  preferred  stock share be converted into .0469  Deltathree
series A common stock share.  The Company  received  4,983  Deltathree  series A
common  stock shares in the  exchange,  and  accounted  for the exchange at fair
value,  which resulted in a loss of $37,000 included in other income  (expense).
Deltathree  is a global  provider of IP telephony  services  and other  enhanced
web-based communications to individuals and businesses worldwide.  Deltathree is
listed and traded on the NASDAQ National  Market under the symbol "DDDC".  As of
September  30, 2000,  the  investment  in  Deltathree  is an available  for sale
security  and  accordingly  is  classified  as a  short-term  investment  on the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
<PAGE>

On  February  23,  2000,  the  Company  entered  into an  agreement  to  provide
management consulting advice on strategy, operations,  marketing, technology and
content;  and training  related to high speed  Internet  services  through cable
television  networks to Big Sky Network  Canada,  Ltd.  ("Big  Sky"),  a British
Virgin  Islands  international  business  company.  As part of the agreement the
Company  acquired 10,000 Big Sky common stock shares for $500,000.  On April 24,
2000, the Company acquired an additional  40,000 Big Sky common stock shares for
$2,000,000.  Additionally,  the Company  incurred an  additional  $1,136,000  of
expenses on behalf of Big Sky for a total investment of $3,636,000. Big Sky is a
company   that   forms    cooperative   joint   venture    relationships    with
government-approved  partners to offer high capacity, high speed Internet access
and services in major urban markets  throughout the People's  Republic of China.
Subsequently,  on September 29, 2000, the Company sold its 50,000 Big Sky common
stock  shares for  $13,830,000  to the other owner of Big Sky,  China  Broadband
Corporation ("China Broadband"), a Nevada corporation,  which resulted in a gain
of  $10,194,000  included  in other  income  (expense).  Proceeds  from the sale
consisted of (i)  $2,500,000  in cash,  (ii) a promissory  note in the amount of
$1,700,000  bearing  interest at 8% per annum due September 29, 2001,  and (iii)
1,133,000  China  Broadband  common stock  shares  valued at  $9,630,000.  China
Broadband is the leading cable broadband  provider in China.  China Broadband is
listed and traded on the NASDAQ Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board under the symbol
"CBBD".  As of  September  30, 2000,  the  investment  in China  Broadband is an
available for sale security and accordingly classified as short-term investments
on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

On August 18, 1999, the Company  acquired 83,330 series A convertible  preferred
stock shares of YourStuff.com,  Inc. ("YourStuff"),  a Delaware corporation, for
$250,000.  YourStuff  provides  a  secure  web-based  central  file  repository.
Subsequently,  on  October  30,  2000,  YourStuff  merged  with  SenseNet,  Inc.
("SenseNet"),  a Delaware  corporation.  The Company  received  267,501 SenseNet
common stock shares in the  exchange,  and  accounted  for the exchange at cost.
SenseNet  is  a  privately   held  company  that  provides   intranet   business
applications  that focus on increasing  productivity  and  profitability.  As of
September  30, 2000 and 1999,  these  investments  are  classified  as long-term
equity investments on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

On January 14,  2000,  the Company  acquired  337,496  series B preferred  stock
shares of Dotcast.com, a California corporation, for $1,000,000.  Dotcast.com is
a privately held company  developing a national  high-speed  digital network for
the distribution of digital  entertainment,  interactive services and multimedia
communications.  As of September  30, 2000,  this  investment is classified as a
long-term equity investment on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.


On October 12, 1999, the Company entered into memorandum of  understanding  with
Pacific Century CyberWorks Limited ("Pacific  Century") to form a joint venture,
Pacific Century SoftNet, to market cable-based Internet products and services to
cable  operators  throughout  Asia.  This  investment is accounted for under the
equity method and accordingly  classified as long-term equity investments on the
accompanying  consolidated balance sheet. For the year ended September 30, 2000,
the Company  contributed  $230,000 to this joint venture and  recognized  equity
losses  of  $191,000,  which is  reflected  in  other  income  (expense)  on the
accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

On March 24, 2000, the Company  entered into an agreement to provide  management
consulting advice on strategy,  operations,  marketing,  technology and content;
and training  related to high speed Internet  services  through cable television
networks to Interactive Cable  Communications  Incorporated  ("ICC"). As part of
this  agreement,  the Company  acquired  4,600  common  stock  shares of ICC for
$3,763,000,  and  formed a joint  venture  with  Marubeni  Corporation,  a Japan
corporation.  ICC is engaged in the  business  of  providing  data  transferring
services including high-speed cable-based Internet services.  This investment is
accounted  for under the equity method and  accordingly  classified as long-term
equity investments on the accompanying  consolidated balance sheet. For the year
ended September 30, 2000, equity losses for this investment was $390,000, and is
reflected in other income (expense) on the accompanying  consolidated statements
of operations.

On September 15, 2000, the Company  entered into a stock  purchase  agreement to
acquire  3,000,000  series A  convertible  preferred  stock  shares of  Freewire
Networks, Inc. ("Freewire"), a Delaware corporation, for $3,000,000. Freewire is
a privately  held company  developing  wireless  broadband  services at sporting
venues using IEEE 802.11  technology.  The Company holds Freewire in a corporate
joint venture with Lucent  Technologies Inc.  ("Lucent") and Freewire's founding
management stockholders.  Under certain circumstances,  Lucent has the option to
require the Company to purchase  Lucent's shares in Freewire.  The investment is
accounted  for under the  equity  method  and  accordingly  is  classified  as a
long-term equity investment on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.


<PAGE>


6.      Property and Equipment, Net

Property and equipment consist of the following (in thousands):

                                                          September 30,
                                               ------------------------------
                                                   2000            1999
                                               -------------- ---------------
        Leasehold improvements...............  $       1,203  $        1,315
        Furniture and fixtures...............            800             376
        Equipment............................          3,843           1,392
        Construction in Progress.............              5               -
                                               -------------  --------------
        Property and equipment, gross........          5,851           3,083
        Less allowance for depreciation......         (1,172)           (355)
                                               -------------  --------------
        Property and equipment, net..........  $       4,679  $        2,728
                                               =============  ==============

7.       Intangibles, Net

Intangibles consist of the following (in thousands):

                                                        September 30,
                                               ------------------------------
                                                   2000            1999
                                               -------------- ---------------
        Acquired technology (see Note 3)...... $      16,075  $       16,075
        Other.................................            10               -
                                               -------------  --------------
                                                      16,085          16,075
        Accumulated amortization..............        (3,828)         (1,531)
                                               -------------  --------------
                                               $      12,257  $       14,544
                                               =============  ==============

8.       Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following (in thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                September 30,
                                                                                        ------------------------------
                                                                                            2000            1999
                                                                                        -------------- ---------------
<S>                                                                                     <C>            <C>
9% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes due January 1, 2001, interest payable
   quarterly, convertible into the Company's common stock (see below)...............    $           -  $       12,549

9% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due September 15, 2000, interest payable
   quarterly, convertible into the Company's common stock at $6.75 per share........                -           1,357

6% Convertible  Subordinated  Secured  Debentures,  due  February 28, 2002, with
   semi-annual interest payments, convertible into the Company's common stock at
   $8.10 per share..................................................................              660             660

5% Convertible Subordinated Debentures, due September 30, 2002, interest payable
   annually,  convertible  into the  Company's  common  stock at $8.25 per share
   after
   December 31, 1998................................................................            1,444           1,444

Promissory note bearing  interest at 8.5%,  due February 9, 2001,  principal and
   interest due and payable at maturity or at date of prepayment or acceleration
   of
   note (see Note 3)................................................................            2,000           2,000

Other...............................................................................              161             161
                                                                                        -------------  --------------
Total long-term debt................................................................            4,265          18,171
Less current portion................................................................           (2,161)         (1,518)
                                                                                        -------------  --------------
Long-term debt, net of current portion..............................................    $       2,104  $       16,653
                                                                                        =============  ==============
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

On  January  12,  1999,  the  Company  issued   $12,000,000  of  its  9%  Senior
Subordinated  Convertible  Notes (the "Notes") due January 1, 2001 to a group of
institutional investors.  These Notes were convertible into the Company's common
stock with an initial  conversion  price of $17.00 per share until July 1, 1999,
and,  thereafter,  at the lower of $17.00  per share  (the  "Initial  Conversion
Price")  and the lowest  five-day  average  closing  bid price of the  Company's
common  stock  during  the  30-day  trading  period  ending one day prior to the
applicable  conversion date (the "Conversion  Price").  In connection with these
Notes,  the Company issued to these investors  warrants to purchase an aggregate
of 300,000 shares of the Company's common stock. These warrants have an exercise
price of $17.00 per share and expire in 2003.  On April 28, 1999, as a result of
the Company's underwritten secondary public offering (the "Secondary Offering"),
and in conjunction  with an anti-dilution  provision  associated with the Notes,
the  Initial  Conversion  Price was  reduced  from  $17.00 to $16.49  per share.
Furthermore,  in order to secure three month lock-up agreements from the holders
of the Notes in conjunction  with the Secondary  Offering,  the Company  entered
into a new  arrangement  with the  holders  of the  Notes to  issue  all  future
interest  payments,  beginning with the three months ended June 30, 1999, in the
form of convertible  notes with  substantially the same form and features as the
original Notes.  Therefore,  the Company issued an additional $549,000 in notes,
representing  interest  for  the six  months  ended  September  30,  1999,  (the
"Interest  Notes").  Proceeds  from the sale of the Notes  were used to fund the
expenditures  incurred in the  continuing  expansion of the  Company's  Internet
business,  particularly  the ISP  Channel  service,  and for  general  corporate
purposes.  On October 22, 1999,  all of the 9% Senior  Subordinated  Convertible
Notes,  related  Interest Notes and accrued interest were converted into 765,201
shares of the Company's common stock.

On September  15, 1995,  the Company  issued  $2,856,000  of its 9%  Convertible
Subordinated  Debentures  due  September  15,  2000,  in  conjunction  with  the
acquisition of MTC. The  debentures  were issued to the  shareholders  of MTC as
partial consideration for the acquisition. These 9% debentures have a conversion
price of $6.75. For the year ended September 30, 1997, the Company issued 35,104
common stock shares  pursuant to the conversion of $237,000 of convertible  debt
by four separate holders of these  debentures.  For the year ended September 30,
1998, the Company issued 123,377 common stock shares  pursuant to the conversion
of $832,000 of convertible debt by seven separate  holders of these  debentures.
For the year ended  September 30, 1999,  the Company  issued 63,719 common stock
shares  pursuant  to the  conversion  of $430,000  of  convertible  debt by five
separate holders of these debentures. For the year ended September 30, 2000, the
Company  issued 1,467 common stock shares  pursuant to the conversion of $63,000
of convertible debt by 2 separate holders of these debentures.  On September 15,
2000,  the Company paid  remaining  $1,294,000 of  convertible  debt and accrued
interest.

On September 15, 1995, in association  with the  acquisition of MTC, the Company
assumed  $1,800,000  of  6%  Convertible  Subordinated  Secured  Debentures  due
February 28, 2002.  These 6% debentures  are subject to redemption at the option
of the Company at face value,  provided however,  that the Company issues common
share purchase warrants to purchase the same number of shares as would have been
issued if the debentures were converted.  These  debentures are convertible into
the Company's  common stock at $8.10 per share. For the year ended September 30,
1996, the Company issued 125,925 common stock shares  pursuant to the conversion
of $1,020,000 of these  convertible  debentures by ten separate holders of these
debentures.  For the year ended  September  30, 1998,  the Company  issued 7,407
shares of the Company's  common stock  pursuant to the  conversion of $60,000 of
these  convertible  debentures by a single holder of these  debentures.  For the
year ended  September  30,  1999,  the Company  issued 7,407 common stock shares
pursuant  to the  conversion  of $60,000 of these  convertible  debentures  by a
single holder of these debentures.


On January 2, 1998, the Company  issued  $1,444,000  principal  amount of its 5%
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  due  September  30, 2002,  to Mr.  R.C.W.
Mauran,  who was at the time of the transaction a beneficial  owner of more than
5% of the Company's  common stock, in exchange for the assignment to the Company
of  certain  equipment  leases and other  consideration,  all of which have been
assimilated  into the  business  of  Micrographic  Technology  Corporation.  The
debentures are  convertible  into the Company's  common stock at $8.25 per share
after December 31, 1998.

The  scheduled  maturities of long-term  debt as of September  30, 2000,  are as
follows (in thousands):

        Year Ending September 30:
           2001...................................    $       2,161
           2002...................................            2,104
                                                      -------------
                                                      $       4,265
                                                      =============
<PAGE>


9.        Commitments and Contingencies


The Company has entered into  operating  leases for office space,  manufacturing
facilities,  satellite  transponder  space and certain  other office  equipment.
These operating  leases provide for minimum rents and generally  include options
to renew for additional periods.


Future  minimum  lease  payments  under  non-cancelable  operating  leases as of
September 30, 2000, are as follows (in thousands):

        Year Ending September 30:
           2001...................................    $       4,435
           2002...................................            3,471
           2003...................................            3,326
           2004...................................            2,240
           2005...................................              660
           2006 and thereafter....................            1,062
                                                      -------------
                                                      $      15,194
                                                      =============

The  Company's  rent  expense  for  continuing  operations  for the years  ended
September 30, 2000,  1999 and 1998,  was  $3,817,000,  $1,395,000  and $207,000,
respectively.


On February 11, 2000, Intellicom entered into an agreement with Radyne ComStream
Inc.  (`Radyne") to purchase 1,000 earth station  terminals.  Under the terms of
the  agreement,  Intellicom  is required to pay in advance  four equal  payments
amounting to $8,565,000. Through September 30, 2000, Intellicom has paid a total
of  $6,424,000  to Radyne and has received 715 earth  station  terminals.  As of
September 30, 2000, advance payment of $300,000 to Radyne  representing the cost
of 35 earth  station  terminals  not yet received are included in other  current
assets on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.


10.      Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock and Common Stock

Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock

For the year ended September 30, 1998, the Company issued three series of its 5%
convertible preferred stock (Series A, B and C). In connection with the issuance
of the preferred  stock,  the Company also issued warrants to purchase shares of
its common stock.  The holders of the preferred  stock  received  dividends at a
rate of 5% per annum at the Company's  option,  in cash or additional  shares of
the  applicable  series  of  preferred  stock.  Proceeds  from  the  sale of the
preferred stock and warrants were used to fund the expenditures  incurred in the
continuing  expansion of the Company's  Internet  segment,  particularly the ISP
Channel service, and for general corporate purposes.


As of September 30, 1999, all of the previously issued 5% convertible  preferred
stock had been converted to common stock.


The  activity  for the year ended  September  30,  1999 and 1998 in  convertible
preferred  stock and related  warrants is summarized  as follows (in  thousands,
except per share prices):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    Series A           Series B        Series C
                                                 ---------------   ---------------  --------------
<S>                                             <C>               <C>              <C>
Date issued..................................       December 1997         May 1998     August 1998
   Gross proceeds............................    $         5,000   $        10,000  $        7,500
   Issuance costs............................               (400)             (572)           (472)
                                                 ---------------   ---------------  --------------
   Net proceeds..............................    $         4,600             9,428           7,028
                                                 ===============   ===============  ==============

Dividends paid:
   Additional preferred shares...............    $           101   $           252  $          125
   Common shares issued upon
      conversion.............................                 29                75              59
   Cash......................................                 38                42              95

Conversion dates.............................      April 1998 and    February 1999        May 1999
                                                   November 1998
Common shares issued upon conversion.........                 709              777             847
Conversion price per share...................     $6.69 and $7.56           $13.20           $9.00

Warrants issued to preferred
   stockholders:
   Common stock shares.......................                 150              200              94
   Exercise price per share..................              $7.950          $13.750          $9.375
   Expiration date...........................       December 2001         May 2002     August 2002

Warrants issued to sales agents:
   Common stock shares.......................                  20               50              26
   Exercise price per share..................              $6.625          $11.000          $7.500
   Expiration date...........................       December 2000         May 2002     August 2002
</TABLE>
<PAGE>

For the year  ended  September  30,  1999,  the  Company  incurred  a penalty of
$498,000,  included in other income (expense) in the consolidated  statements of
operations,  as a result of a delay in its  ability to register  the  underlying
common stock of the Series C  redeemable  convertible  preferred  stock with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  This penalty was paid to the holders of the
Series C  redeemable  convertible  preferred  stock  through the  issuance of an
additional 55,378 common stock shares.

Common Stock


On February 22, 1999, the Company entered into a license  agreement with Inktomi
Corporation ("Inktomi",  the "Inktomi Licensing Agreement") allowing the Company
rights  to  install  certain  Inktomi  caching  technology  into  the  Company's
cable-based Internet network infrastructure. The Inktomi Licensing Agreement was
valued at $4,000,000 for a total of 500 licenses,  of which the first $1,000,000
was paid with 65,843  shares of the  Company's  common  stock and the  remaining
amount payable in cash in eight  quarterly  payments of $375,000.  For the years
ended  September 30, 2000 and 1999,  total  payments  amounted to $1,500,000 and
$1,125,000,  respectively. The Inktomi Licensing Agreement allows the Company to
purchase  up to 500  additional  licenses  during  the first  four  years of the
agreement.  Prepaid license fees at September 30, 2000 and 1999, were $2,602,000
and  $2,101,000,  respectively.  As a result of the  Company  discontinuing  the
operations of ISP Channel,  prepaid  license fees were written off and reflected
in the loss on disposition of discontinued  operations,  net of tax for the year
ended  September 30, 2000, and in the net assets  associated  with  discontinued
operations at September 30, 1999.


On April 13, 1999, the Company held its Annual  Stockholders'  Meeting.  At this
meeting, the following proposals,  among others, were approved:  (i) an increase
in the number of common  shares  authorized  was  increased  from  25,000,000 to
100,000,000;  (ii) the Company's 1998 Stock Incentive Plan under which 3,350,668
common stock shares were reserved for issuance;  (iii) the sale of the Company's
document   management   segment   (see   Note  3);   and   (iv)  the   Company's
re-incorporation in Delaware.

On April 28,  1999,  the  Company  completed a secondary  public  offering  (the
"Secondary Offering"),  in which it sold 4,600,000 common stock shares at $33.00
per share.  The  Company  received  $141,502,000  in cash,  net of  underwriting
discounts, commissions and other offering costs.

On the first  anniversary  date of the  Intellicom  Acquisition,  the Intellicom
Acquisition  agreement  requires the Company to issue $1,500,000 of common stock
shares. Accordingly, on February 8, 2000, the Company issued 43,314 common stock
shares valued at $1,499,000 and paid $1,000 for fractional  shares to the former
shareholders of Intellicom.

On December 13,  1999,  the Company  completed a private  placement of 5,000,000
common  stock  shares  for net  proceeds  of  $128,121,000  to  Pacific  Century
Cyberworks  Limited  ("Pacific  Century"),   and  entitled  Pacific  Century  to
designate two persons for election to the Board of Directors.


In  conjunction  with  offering  incentives  to launch the Company's ISP Channel
cable-based  Internet  services,  the  Company  issued  common  stock  to  cable
affiliates in return for the exclusive  rights to provide  Internet  services to
their  customers . During the year ended  September 30, 1999, the Company issued
an aggregate of 13,574 common stock shares valued at $337,000 to eight  separate
cable  affiliates.  During the year ended September 30, 2000, the Company issued
35,160 common stock shares valued at $419,000 to two separate cable  affiliates.
In addition,  on April 12, 1999,  the Company issued 660,000 common stock shares
to an investor  for  $14,990,000  in cash and a  modification  of the  affiliate
agreement between the Company and Teleponce Cable TV, which is controlled by the
investor;  the modification of the affiliate  agreement was valued at $8,925,000
as a cable affiliate launch incentive. Further, on November 4, 1999, the Company
entered into various  definitive  agreements with Mediacom LLC ("Mediacom").  In
exchange  for  signing an  agreement  to launch the ISP  Channel  services,  the
Company  issued a total of 3,500,000  common stock shares to Mediacom,  of which
3,150,000  shares  were  restricted.  The  restrictions  were lifted as Mediacom
launched ISP Channel's  services in Mediacom's cable television  systems.  As of
September 30, 2000,  there are 2,100,000  shares  restricted  and unvalued.  The
unrestricted 1,400,000 shares have been valued at $26,513,000 as cable affiliate
launch incentive. As a result of the Company discontinuing the operations of ISP
Channel, the cable affiliate launch incentive, net of amortization,  was written
off and reflected in the loss on disposition of discontinued operations,  net of
tax for the year ended September 30, 2000, and in the net assets associated with
discontinued operations at September 30, 1999.
<PAGE>

11.      Treasury Stock


On August 15, 2000,  the board of directors  authorized  the repurchase of up to
2,600,000  common stock  shares of the Company.  The  Company's  repurchases  of
shares of common  stock are  recorded at cost as treasury  stock and result in a
reduction of stockholders' equity.


12.      2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP")


On February 22, 2000,  the Company  adopted ESPP,  which  provides for grants of
options to eligible  employees of the Company to purchase shares of common stock
through payroll deductions during six-month offering periods. Initial enrollment
for ESPP began on March 13, 2000, for the first offering period of April 1, 2000
to June 30, 2000. Each subsequent offering period will begin July 1 or January 1
and end December 31 or June 30, respectively.


Substantially  all  employees are eligible for the plan if they are employed for
twenty  (20) or more  hours per week on the first  day of the  offering  period.
Eligible employees may elect to contribute up to 15% of their base compensation.

The plan  provides for the purchase at the lower of 85% of the fair market value
of the shares on the first day of the offering  period or 85% of the fair market
value of the shares on the last day of the offering period. A total of 1,325,000
common stock shares are reserved for issuance under ESPP.

As of September  30, 2000,  there were no  committed-to-be-released  or suspense
shares.

13.      Stock Option and Warrants

1998 Stock Incentive Plan ("1998 Plan")


Effective  October 1, 1998,  the Company  implemented  the 1998 Plan,  which the
Company's  stockholders  approved  on  April  13,  1999.  Concurrent  with  such
stockholder approval, all outstanding options under the Company's 1995 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (the "Incentive  Plan") were incorporated into the 1998 Plan, and
no further  option  grants or stock  issuances  will be made under the Incentive
Plan.  However,  the incorporated  options will continue to be governed by their
existing terms,  unless the  Administrator of the 1998 Plan elects to extend one
or more features of the 1998 Plan to those options.  Stock options granted under
the Incentive Plan have an exercise price not less than the fair market value of
the option shares on the grant date and generally  become  exercisable  in three
successive equal  installments  over the optionee's  period of continued service
with the Company.  The 1998 Plan  provides for the grants of  non-statutory  and
incentive  stock option grants,  stock  appreciation  rights,  restricted  stock
awards,  performance  shares, and other awards to officers,  employees and other
individuals.  Under the terms of the 1998 Plan,  options  have a maximum term of
ten years from the date of grant.  The  granted  options  have  various  vesting
criteria depending on the grantee;  however, most grants having a vesting period
of four years.  A total of 3,350,668  shares are reserved for issuance under the
1998 Plan. In addition,  the number of common stock shares reserved for issuance
under the 1998 Plan will  automatically be increased on the first trading day of
each calendar year,  beginning in calendar year 2000, by an amount equal to four
percent  of the total  number of common  stock  shares  outstanding  on the last
trading day of the preceding calendar year, but in no event will any such annual
increase exceed  2,000,000  shares,  subject to adjustment for subsequent  stock
splits,  stock  dividends  and similar  transactions.  As of September 30, 2000,
options for 5,781,428 common stock shares were outstanding,  options for 971,471
common  stock  shares were vested and options for 660,282  common  stock  shares
remained available for future option grants and other awards.


1999 Supplemental Stock Incentive Plan ("1999 Plan")

The  Company's  1999 Plan is an  equity  incentive  program  for  employees  and
consultants who are neither officers nor directors of the Company.  Awards under
the 1999 Plan may, in general, be made in the form of non-statutory stock option
grants,  stock  appreciation  rights,  restricted  stock  awards or  performance
shares.  Each stock option  grant will have an exercise  price not less than the
fair market value of the option shares on the grant date and will generally have
a vesting  period of four  years.  A total of 750,000  common  stock  shares are
reserved for issuance under the 1999 Plan. As of September 30, 2000, options for
573,940  common stock shares were  outstanding,  options for 89,844 common stock
shares  were  vested,  and  options for 176,060  common  stock  shares  remained
available for future option grants and other awards.
<PAGE>

Micrographic Technology Corporation Employee Stock Option Plan ("MTC Plan")

The  Company's  former  MTC Plan  was an  equity  incentive, program  which  was
established  for the  employees  of  Micrographic  Technology  Corporation.  The
Company sold Micrographic Technology Corporation on September 30, 1999 (See Note
5). A total of 40,000 common stock shares were  reserved for issuance  under the
MTC Plan.  All  options  granted  under the MTC Plan are  designed to qualify as
incentive  stock options under the federal tax laws.  Each granted option became
exercisable for the option shares in a series of three  successive  equal annual
installments  over the optionee's  period of continued service with Micrographic
Technology Corporation. As of September 30, 2000, options for 1,693 common stock
shares were  outstanding  and fully vested and no common  stock shares  remained
available for future options grants.

Non-Plan Consultant and Employee Stock Options


The  Company  has  granted  stock  options  to  certain  consultants  as partial
consideration for services  rendered.  These options were granted outside of any
plan because  certain  consultants are ineligible to be issued stock options out
of plans whose shares are registered  with the Securities & Exchange  Commission
using Form S-8, such as the Company's  1998 and 1999 Plans.  As of September 30,
2000,   non-plan   consultant  options  for  94,306  common  stock  shares  were
outstanding and options for 65,694 common stock shares were vested.  The Company
has also granted non-plan  employee stock options to certain  employees in order
to comply with  employment  offer letter terms not  available  under the 1998 or
1999 Plans.  As of September  30,  2000,  non-plan  employee  options for 21,583
common stock shares were  outstanding  and options for 8,925 common stock shares
were vested.


Common Stock Warrants

For the year ended  September 30, 1999, the Company issued  warrants to purchase
an  aggregate  of 303,013  shares of its common  stock in  association  with two
separate rounds of financing. Warrants to purchase 300,000 shares were issued in
connection with the issuance of the Company's 9% Senior Subordinated Convertible
Notes (see Note 7). Additionally,  warrants to purchase 3,013 shares were issued
in connection with the procurement of a $3,000,000 credit facility. For the year
ended September 30, 2000, no warrants were issued.

The fair value of the  warrants on the  issuance  date was  estimated  using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions: volatility of
108%,  risk free  interest  rate of 4.78%,  no dividend  yield,  and an expected
contractual  life of four  years.  The total fair value of  $4,334,000  has been
recorded  as  deferred  debt  issuance  costs in the  accompanying  consolidated
balance sheets and is being  amortized to interest  expense over the contractual
life of the associated debt instruments.

Options and Warrants Outstanding

The following table summarizes the outstanding  options and warrants to purchase
common stock shares for the three years ended September 30, 2000:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                  Outstanding
                                     Outstanding Options         Outstanding Warrants        Options and Warrants
                                   -------------------------    ---------------------       -------------------------
                                                                             Weighted
                                                 Weighted                     Average                     Weighted
                                                 Average                     Exercise                     Average
                                   Shares     Exercise Price    Shares         Price        Shares     Exercise Price
                                 -----------  --------------    ---------   ---------      ----------  --------------
<S>                               <C>          <C>               <C>        <C>            <C>          <C>
Balance, September 30, 1997          482,952    $   5.14          952,400    $   6.06       1,435,352    $   5.75

  Granted....................      1,143,533        8.07          576,559       10.32       1,720,092        8.82
  Exercised..................       (152,540)       5.47         (683,941)       5.81        (836,481)       5.75
  Canceled...................       (103,820)       6.76          (12,619)       2.52        (116,439)       6.30
                                 -----------                  -----------                 -----------
Balance, September 30, 1998        1,370,125        7.42          832,399        9.27       2,202,524        8.12

  Granted....................      2,618,700       16.68          303,013       17.13       2,921,713       16.73
  Exercised..................       (440,730)       6.33         (572,064)       9.87      (1,012,794)       8.33
  Canceled...................       (155,192)      13.89          (60,335)       8.72        (215,527)      12.44
                                 -----------                  -----------                 -----------
Balance, September 30, 1999        3,392,903       14.43          503,013       13.38       3,895,916       14.29

  Granted....................      4,891,000       20.93                -        -          4,891,000       20.93
  Exercised..................       (365,592)       7.53         (200,000)       7.69        (565,592)       7.59
  Canceled...................     (1,445,361)      21.08                -        -         (1,445,361)      21.08
                                 -----------                  -----------                 -----------
Balance, September 30, 2000        6,472,950    $  13.75          303,013    $  17.13       6,775,963    $  13.90
                                 ===========                  ===========                 ===========
</TABLE>
<PAGE>


The following table summarizes  information  regarding stock options outstanding
at September 30, 2000:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                Outstanding Options                 Vested Options
                                       --------------------------------------  -----------------------
                                                      Weighted
                                                       Average     Weighted                  Weighted
                                                      Remaining    Average                    Average
                                                     Contractual   Exercise                  Exercise
           Range of Exercise Price       Shares     Life (Years)     Price       Shares        Price
        -----------------------------  -----------  ------------   ----------  -----------  ----------
        <S>                            <C>               <C>      <C>             <C>      <C>
        $     0.01    to   $    10.00    1,697,367        8.63     $     7.11      520,727  $     7.16
             10.01    to        20.00    2,129,121        9.20          14.04      331,932       14.13
             20.01    to        30.00    1,818,872        9.07          24.75      243,165       23.28
             30.01    to        40.00      610,090        9.31          35.29       28,031       34.64
             40.01    to        50.00      217,500        9.22          43.99       13,772       42.75
                                       -----------                             -----------
        $     0.01    to   $    50.00    6,472,950        9.04     $    18.55    1,137,627  $    13.89
                                       ===========                             ===========
</TABLE>


Stock Option Compensation on a Pro Forma Basis


As allowed by Statement of Financial  Accounting Standards No. 123 ("FASB 123"),
Accounting  for  Stock-Based  Compensation,  the Company  continues to apply the
provisions of Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 25 ("APB 25"), Accounting
for Stock  Issued to  Employees,  in  accounting  for its stock  based  employee
compensation  arrangements  and  discloses  the pro  forma net loss and loss per
share  information  as if the fair value  method  suggested in FASB 123 had been
applied.


Had compensation cost for the Company's  stock-based  compensation  arrangements
for  employees  been  determined  based on the fair  value at grant  date of the
awards for the years ended  September 30, 2000,  1999 and 1998,  consistent with
the provisions of FASB 123, the Company's net loss and loss per share would have
been  increased to the pro forma  amounts as follows (in  thousands,  except per
share data):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      Year Ended September 30,
                                                                --------------------------------------
                                                                   2000         1999         1998
                                                                ------------ ------------ ------------
<S>                                                             <C>          <C>          <C>
Net loss applicable to common shares, as reported..........     $  (232,353) $   (50,482) $   (17,345)
                                                                ===========  ===========  ===========
Net loss applicable to common shares, pro forma............     $  (303,420) $   (54,030) $   (18,889)
                                                                ===========  ===========  ===========
Basic and diluted loss per common share, as reported.......     $     (9.88) $     (4.09) $     (2.35)
                                                                ===========  ===========  ===========
Basic and diluted loss per common share, pro forma.........     $    (12.90) $     (4.38) $     (2.56)
                                                                ===========  ===========  ===========
</TABLE>


The fair value of each  stock  option  grant on the date of grant was  estimated
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average
assumptions:


                                               Year Ended September 30,
                                     -------------------------------------------
                                         2000            1999           1998
                                     -------------- --------------- ------------

   Volatility.......................      96.72%         85.00%          63.00%
   Risk-free interest rate..........       5.88%          5.74%           5.28%
   Dividend yield...................          -              -               -
   Expected lives...................    4 Years         4 Years         4 Years
   Weighted average fair value......    $ 14.53         $ 39.81          $ 4.62

14.      Deferred Compensation


During the period from October 1998 to April 1999, the Company,  pursuant to the
1998 Plan,  granted to  certain  employees,  pending  stockholder  approval,  an
aggregate of 1,618,550  incentive  and  non-qualified  common stock options at a
weighted average exercise price of $12.74 per share. As a result of the adoption
of the 1998 Plan  (see Note 13),  and in  accordance  with   APB 25 the  Company
recorded a non-cash deferred stock compensation charge of $77,361,000 related to
the issuance of these stock  options.  Although all of the options  issued under
the 1998  Plan  were  granted  at what was  then  the fair  market  value of the
Company's  common  stock on the date of grant,  the  Company  must  recognize  a
non-cash compensation charge for the difference between the various grant prices
and  $59.875,  the closing  price of the  Company's  common stock on the date of
stockholder  approval of the 1998 Plan. Deferred stock compensation is amortized
on a straight-line basis over the remaining vesting period of such stock options
to compensation related to stock options. For the years ended September 30, 2000
and 1999, the Company  recognized  compensation  expense  related to these stock
options of $18,711,000,  which includes $4,415,000 allocated to the discontinued
operations of ISP Channel; and $11,258,000,  which includes $4,339,000 allocated
to the discontinued operations of ISP Channel, respectively.


Also, in accordance with FASB 123 the Company recognized  deferred  compensation
charges of approximately $1,952,000 with respect to the 140,500 option shares it
has issued to certain consultants. These deferred compensation charges are being
amortized,  on an accelerated basis over the vesting period of such options,  in
accordance  with Financial  Accounting  Standards Board  Interpretation  No. 28,
Accounting  for Stock  Appreciation  Rights and Other  Variable  Stock Option or
Award Plans. For the years ended September 30, 2000, 1999  and 1998, the Company
has recognized  compensation expense related to these stock options of $345,000,
which includes $84,000 allocated to the discontinued  operations of ISP Channel;
$1,676,000,  which includes $57,000 allocated to the discontinued  operations of
ISP Channel; and $27,000, respectively.
<PAGE>

15.      Related Party Transactions


On January 2, 1998, the Company  issued  $1,444,000  principal  amount of its 5%
Convertible  Subordinated  Debentures  due  September 30,  2002, to Mr. R. C. W.
Mauran,  who was at the time of the transaction a beneficial  owner of more than
5% of the Company's  common stock, in exchange for the assignment to the Company
of  certain  equipment  leases and other  consideration,  all of which have been
assimilated  into the  business  of  Micrographic  Technology  Corporation.  The
debentures are  convertible  into the Company's  common stock at $8.25 per share
after December 31, 1998.

16.      Income Taxes

The Company made no  provision  for income  taxes for the  Company's  continuing
businesses due to losses incurred.


The tax effects of the components of deferred  taxes for  continuing  operations
are as follows (in thousands):


                                                     As of September 30,
                                              ------------------------------
                                                  2000            1999
                                              -------------- ---------------


Inventory and other operating reserves....    $          31  $          562
Allowance for doubtful accounts...........               26             234
Unpaid accruals...........................              108             175
Deferred revenue..........................               60              26
Depreciation..............................             (322)           (336)
Other.....................................               22             228
Net operating loss carryforwards..........            8,322          21,576
                                              -------------  --------------

Total deferred tax asset..................            8,247          22,465
Valuation allowance.......................           (8,247)        (22,465)
                                              -------------  --------------


Net deferred tax asset....................    $           -  $            -
                                              =============  ==============


The  Company  has  established  a  valuation  allowance  for the  portion of the
deferred tax assets for which realization is uncertain.  The valuation allowance
for  deferred tax assets as of September  30, 2000 and 1999 was  $8,247,000  and
$22,465,000, respectively. The change in valuation allowance for the years ended
September 30, 2000 and 1999 was $14,218,000 and $15,188,000, respectively.

The Company has net operating  loss  carryforwards  for federal and state income
tax  purposes  of  approximately  $37,300,000  and  $23,100,000,   respectively,
available  to reduce  future  income  subject to income  taxes.  The federal net
operating loss carryforwards  expire in fiscal years 2001 to 2020. The state net
operating loss carryforwards expire in fiscal years 2001 to 2005.

As of September 30, 2000, $15,582,000 of the net operating loss related to stock
option  exercises;  these  will be charged to  equity,  for tax  purposes,  when
utilized.


Federal  and  California  tax  laws  impose  substantial   restrictions  on  the
utilization  of net operating loss and credit  carryforwards  in the event of an
"ownership  change" for tax purposes,  as defined in Section 382 of the Internal
Revenue Code.  For tax purposes,  the  acquisition  and  disposition  of certain
subsidiaries  has  triggered  Section 382  ownership  changes  and, as a result,
utilization of the net operating losses will be subject to an annual  limitation
in future years.
<PAGE>

17.     Supplemental Cash Flow Information (in thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                   Year Ended September 30,
                                                                             2000          1999          1998
                                                                        --------------  -----------   -----------
<S>                                                                      <C>            <C>           <C>
Cash paid during the year for:
   Interest..........................................................    $         302  $       865   $      957
   Income taxes......................................................                -            -            -

Non-cash investing and financing activities:
   Acquisition of Laptop Lane Limited:
     Common stock issued.............................................           20,272            -            -
   Acquisition of Intelligent Communications, Inc.:
     Equity consideration............................................                -        7,469            -
     Business acquisition liability..................................                -        3,500            -
     Debt consideration..............................................                -        3,000            -
   Disposal of telecommunications segment:
     Promissory notes received.......................................                -        4,500            -
     Convergent Communications Services Inc. common stock received...                -          499            -
   Exchange of equity investments:
     China Broadband Corporation common stock received...............            9,630            -            -
     Promissory note received from China Broadband Corporation.......            1,700            -            -
     deltathree.com, Inc. series A common stock received.............              213            -            -
   Convertible debt issued for acquisition of equipment leases.......                -            -        1,444
   Value assigned to debt conversion feature.........................               34        1,529            -
   Common stock issued for-
     Conversion of redeemable convertible preferred stock............                -       18,254        1,666
     Conversion of subordinated notes................................            9,949          490        1,118
     Repayment of short-term debt....................................                -          190            -
     Anniversary issuance of common stock to former Intelligent
       Communications, Inc. stockholders.............................            1,499            -            -
     Cable affiliate launch incentives...............................           26,932          337            -
     Prepayment of license fees......................................                -        1,000            -
   Increase  in additional-paid-in capital associated with common
     stock options...................................................           15,712       76,092            -
   Value assigned to common stock warrants issued upon the issuance of
     long-term debt..................................................                -        4,334            -
   Value assigned to common stock warrants issued with preferred stock               -            -        1,612
   Value assigned to intangible assets in connection with common stock
     issued for cable affiliate launch incentives....................                -        8,925            -
   Preferred dividends paid with the issuance of:
     Additional redeemable convertible preferred stock...............                -          221          257
     Common stock....................................................                -          157            6
   Unrealized loss on short-term investments.........................              385          315            -
</TABLE>


18.     Segment Information

The Company currently  operates one business segment,  satellite-based  Internet
services  and  VSAT  equipment  sales  through  its  wholly  owned   subsidiary,
Intellicom.  The operating  results of Intellicom  have been included  since its
acquisition on February 9, 1999. Segment  information for continuing  operations
is as follows (in thousands):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                  Year Ended September 30,
                                                                        --------------------------------------------
                                                                            2000           1999            1998
                                                                        -------------- -------------- --------------
<S>                                                                     <C>            <C>            <C>
        Net Sales:
           Satellite-based Internet services and VSAT equipment sales   $       9,927  $       1,584  $            -
                                                                        -------------  -------------  --------------
                                                                        $       9,927  $       1,584  $            -
                                                                        =============  =============  ==============
=        Loss from continuing operations before income taxes:
           Satellite-based Internet services and VSAT equipment sales   $     (12,453) $      (3,456) $            -
           Corporate................................................          (13,433)        (7,444)         (1,950)
           Compensation related to stock options....................          (14,557)        (8,538)            (27)
           Other income (expense), net..............................           19,889         (2,489)         (1,027)
                                                                        -------------  -------------  --------------
                                                                        $     (20,554) $     (21,927) $       (3,004)
                                                                        =============  =============  ==============
        Depreciation and Amortization Expense:
           Satellite-based Internet services and VSAT equipment sales   $       2,929  $       1,713  $            -
           Corporate...............................................               355            175              84
                                                                        -------------  -------------  --------------
                                                                        $       3,284  $       1,888  $           84
                                                                        =============  =============  ==============
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                    As of September 30,
                                                                            2000           1999            1998
                                                                        -------------- -------------- --------------
<S>                                                                     <C>            <C>            <C>
        Identifiable Assets:
           Satellite-based Internet services and VSAT equipment sales   $      27,369  $      16,410  $            -
           Corporate...............................................           184,937        149,490          13,513
           Discontinued businesses.................................                 -         28,424           8,297
                                                                        -------------  -------------  --------------
                                                                        $     212,306  $     194,324  $       21,810
                                                                        =============  =============  ==============

        Capital Expenditures:
           Satellite-based Internet services and VSAT equipment sales   $         447  $         767  $            -
           Corporate...............................................             2,619          1,653               2
                                                                        -------------  -------------  --------------
                                                                        $       3,066  $       2,420  $            -
                                                                        =============  =============  ==============
</TABLE>

19.      Subsequent Events

On December 28, 2000, the Board of Directors  approved a plan to reduce staff at
SoftNet's  corporate  headquarters  over the next few months as Aerzone  and ISP
Channel operations are finalized. As a result of this decision, the Company will
record a charge of approximately  $4,000,000 for the three months ended December
31, 2000, primarily consisting of severance and retention costs for the impacted
personnel.


<PAGE>


Item  9.  Changes  In and  Disagreements  With  Accountants  on  Accounting  and
Financial Disclosure

None


<PAGE>


                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of Registrant

Directors of the Registrant

The directors of the Registrant are listed below:

Name of Nominee                    Age               Position
- ---------------------------------  ---   ---------------------------------------

Garrett J. Girvan................  55    Chairman of the Board of Directors


Ronald I. Simon..................  62    Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors

Edward A. Bennett................  54    Director

George C. Chan...................  48    Director

Robert C. Harris, Jr.............  54    Director

Atam Lalchandani.................  56    Director


Jeffrey A. Bowden................  54    Director


Garrett J. Girvan was elected Chairman of the Board of SoftNet Systems, Inc. and
Subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  on  December  17,  2000,  and has  served as the
Company's  Chief  Executive  Officer since December  2000,  the Company's  Chief
Operating Officer from April 1998 until December 2000 and as the Company's Chief
Financial  Officer from April 1998 to November  1998. Mr. Girvan has also served
as President of Aerzone  Corporation,  a  subsidiary  of the Company,  since May
2000.  Prior to joining the Company,  Mr.  Girvan held various  positions at the
Cable Division of Viacom Inc. ("Viacom") over a 13-year period,  including Chief
Financial Officer and Chief Operating  Officer.  While at Viacom, Mr. Girvan was
involved in the development of Viacom's broadband services.


Ronald I. Simon has served as a member of the Company's Board of Directors since
September 1995, Chairman of the Board from August 1997 until April 1999 and Vice
Chairman of the Board since April 1999.  Mr. Simon has served as Director  since
September  1999, and Executive Vice President and Chief  Financial  Officer from
May 1997 through April 2000 of Western Water  Company,  a developer and marketer
of water and water  rights.  Mr.  Simon has also  served as Director of Westcorp
Investments,  a wholly-owned subsidiary of Westcorp, Inc., a holding company for
Western  Financial Bank,  since 1997;  Director of Citadel  Corporation,  a real
estate investment company,  from 1995 through 1999; and a Director of Collateral
Therapeutics  Inc., a developer of non-surgical gene therapy  procedures for the
treatment of  cardiovascular  diseases,  since May 1999. In addition,  Mr. Simon
served as  Chairman  and Chief  Financial  Officer  of  Sonant  Corporation,  an
interactive voice response equipment company, from 1993 to 1997.

Edward A.  Bennett has served as a member of the  Company's  Board of  Directors
since January 1998.  Mr. Bennett is Chairman of  MobileLogic  Holdings,  Inc., a
provider of wireless data  solutions,  and is a director of Engage  Technologies
Inc., a director of Real Names Corp,  and a director of  WiredPlaner.  From 1997
until 2000,  Mr.  Bennett  served as President  and Chief  Executive  Officer of
Bennett Media  Collaborative,  a new media,  Internet and technology  consulting
company.  Mr.  Bennett also served as President and Chief  Executive  Officer of
Prodigy Ventures, an Internet/technology  investment firm from June 1996 to June
1997  and  as  President  and  Chief  Executive   Officer  of  Prodigy  Services
Corporation, an Internet services company from 1995 to June 1996. Prior to that,
Mr. Bennett served as President and Chief Executive  Officer of VH-1 Network,  a
television programming company, from 1989 to 1994.


George C. Chan has served as a member of the Company's  Board of Directors since
December 1999. Mr. Chan has been an Executive Vice President of Pacific  Century
Group, a diversified  holding company located in Hong Kong,  since January 1994.
Mr. Chan is a director of several companies,  both affiliated and not affiliated
with Pacific Century Group, in the investment,  financial services, consultancy,
administrative and management  services,  technology and property,  advertising,
and interactive data services industries.
<PAGE>

Robert C. Harris, Jr. has served as a member of the Company's Board of Directors
since May 1998. Mr. Harris has served as a Senior Managing  Director and Head of
Investment Banking in the San Francisco office of Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. since
November 1997. Mr. Harris also serves as Director of MDSI Mobile Data Solutions,
Inc. and Xoom.com. From 1989 to 1997, Mr. Harris was a co-founder and a Managing
Director of Unterberg Harris, a registered broker-dealer and investment advisory
firm. From 1984 to 1989, Mr. Harris was a General  Partner,  Managing  Director,
and Director of Alex Brown & Sons.

Atam  Lalchandani  has served as a member of the  Company's  Board of  Directors
since May 2000. He currently serves on the boards of @Comm Corporation (formerly
Xiox  Corporation),  a telecom product services company;  Harmony Foods, a candy
and snack foods company;  and  NetResults,  an early stage  business-to-business
software company.  From 1990 to 1992, Mr.  Lalchandani served initially as Chief
Financial  Officer  and later as Chief  Executive  Officer  for  Objectivity,  a
database software company.  He was part of the financial  management at National
Semiconductor  Corporation starting in 1977,  progressing to Chief Financial and
Administrative Officer for a subsidiary,  National Advanced Systems. During 1990
he was the Chief Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation's domestic operations.


Jeffrey A.  Bowden has served as a member of the  Company's  Board of  Directors
since December 2000. He is Executive Vice President,  Strategic Integration,  of
Pacific Century  CyberWorks.  From 1994 to 1996, he served as Corporate Strategy
and Assurance and Vice President,  Merger Integration, at the NYNEX Corporation,
where he led the company's merger integration with Bell Atlantic. Mr. Bowden has
served twice as a Vice  President  and Director of the Boston  Consulting  Group
Inc.  ("BCG") from 1998 to 1994 and from 1998 to 2000. BCG is one of the world's
leading business  international  strategic management consulting companies.  Mr.
Bowden was co-head of the firm's North  America  Technology  and  Communications
Practice,  directing  the  Group's  client  relationships  with North  America's
leading communications and data services providers.


Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers and certain other key employees of the Company are listed
below:

Name                        Age                    Positions
- --------------------------  ---  ---------------------------------------------

Garrett J. Girvan.........   55  Chief Executive Officer


Steven M. Harris..........   46  Senior Vice President, Secretary, and General
                                 Counsel

Carol Sorrick.............   44  President, Intelligent Communications, Inc.

Jonathan B. Marx..........   49  President, ISP Channel, Inc.


Garrett  J.  Girvan's   background  is  summarized   under   "Directors  of  the
Registrant".


Steven M. Harris has served as the Company's  Senior Vice  President,  Secretary
and General  Counsel since August 1998.  He was promoted from Vice  President to
Senior Vice  President on February 8, 2000.  Prior to joining the  Company,  Mr.
Harris  worked at Pacific  Telesis  Group,  most  recently as Vice  President-of
Broadband  Services,  where he was responsible  for external  affairs and policy
planning for video services and broadband networks. Previously, he was Executive
Director of Regulatory  Planning and Policy for Pacific Bell with responsibility
for federal and state  regulatory  policies  relating to competition,  corporate
structure, interconnection,  privacy and new technologies. He began with Pacific
Telesis  Group  in  1983 as  Executive  Director  of  Regulatory  Relations,  in
Washington,  D.C. Mr. Harris was Commissioner's  Assistant and Special Assistant
to the  General  Counsel  at  the  Federal  Communications  Commission  and  was
previously in private practice.

Carol  Sorrick  has  served  as  President  of  Intelligent  Communications,   a
subsidiary of the Company,  since August 1999. Prior to joining the Company, she
was Vice  President of Marketing for Centigram  Communications.  From  September
1997 to May 1998, she was Vice President of  International  Marketing for Unisys
Corporation.  From October 1979 to August 1997 she served in various  capacities
at Pacific Bell, including Vice President of Marketing.

Jonathan B. Marx has served as  President of ISP  Channel,  a subsidiary  of the
Company,  since March  1999.  Prior to joining  the  Company,  he served as Vice
President,  Service  Operations  of  TiVo,  Inc.  From  1996-1997,  he was  Vice
President, Strategy and Business Development for the Smart Yellow Pages division
of  Pacific  Bell  Directory,  Inc.  From 1982 to 1996,  he  served  in  various
capacities at the Cable Division of Viacom Inc., including Senior Vice President
and Vice President, Operations.



<PAGE>


Item 11.  Executive Compensation

The  following  table sets forth  information  for the last  three  years  ended
September 30, 2000 concerning compensation paid or accrued by the Company to (i)
the Chief Executive Officer of the Company as of September 30, 2000 and (ii) the
four other most highly compensated executive officers of the Company whose total
annual salary and incentive  compensation  for the year ended September 30, 2000
exceeded $100,000 (collectively, the "Named Officers").
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                         Long-Term
                                                                                                        Compensation
                                                                   Annual Compensation                     Awards
                                                     -------------------------------------------------  -----------
                                                                                         Other Annual     Securities
                                                     Fiscal    Salary ($)    Bonus ($)   Compensation     Underlying
Name and Principal Position in Fiscal Year 2000                                               ($)        Options (#)
- -----------------------------------------------      ------   -----------  -----------  -------------- -------------
<S>                                                   <C>     <C>          <C>          <C>            <C>
Lawrence B. Brilliant (1)                             2000    $   372,115  $   192,500  $       7,200  $      450,000
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer                  1999        322,523      150,000          6,600         355,000
                                                      1998        128,396            -              -         200,000


Garrett J. Girvan (2)                                 2000    $   297,115  $   121,000  $       7,200  $      225,000
Chief Operating Officer                               1999        253,458       75,000          7,200         165,000
                                                      1998         89,623            -              -          75,000


Steven M. Harris (3)                                  2000    $   203,654  $    77,000  $           -  $       75,000
General Counsel and Secretary                         1999        175,000       25,000              -         120,000
                                                      1998         22,212            -              -               -


Jonathan B. Marx                                      2000    $   206,279  $    77,000  $       5,250  $       25,000
President, ISP Channel, Inc.                          1999        124,327            -          3,750               -
                                                      1998              -            -              -               -

Carol Sorrick                                         2000    $   190,961  $    25,000  $           -  $       50,000
President, Intelligent Communications, Inc.           1999         20,769            -              -               -
                                                      1998              -            -              -               -
</TABLE>


(1)  Dr.  Brilliant's  annual salary  increased  effective  January 1, 2000 from
     $350,000 to $375,000.  Dr. Brilliant resigned as Chief Executive Officer of
     the Company effective December 4, 2000.
(2)  Mr.  Girvan's  annual salary was increased  effective  January 1, 2000 from
     $275,000 to $300,000.  Mr. Girvan was appointed Chief Executive  Officer of
     the Company on December 4, 2000.
(3)  Mr.  Harris'  annual  salary was increased  effective  January 1, 2000 from
     $175,000 to $210,000.

Stock Option Information

Option Grants in Fiscal 2000. The following  table sets forth  information  with
respect to stock  options  granted by the Company to the Named  Officers  during
Fiscal 2000. No stock appreciation rights were granted in Fiscal 2000.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                    Individual Grants
                                  ------------------------------------------------------
                                  ------------- -------------- ------------ ------------
                                   Number of     Percent of     Exercise    Expiration    Potential Realizable Value
                                                    Total                                 at Assumed Annual Rates of
                                   Securities      Options                                 Stock Price Appreciation
                                   Underlying    Granted to      or Base                             for
                                    Options     Employees in      Price                         Option Term(5)
                                                                                                --------------
                                                   Fiscal
              Name                Granted(#)(1)   Year(2)      ($/Sh) (3)     Date(4)        5%($)         10%($)
                                  -------------   --------     ----------     -------        -----         ------

<S>                                     <C>           <C>           <C>       <C> <C>    <C>            <C>
Lawrence B. Brilliant ........          50,000        1.02%         $44.50    2/9/10     $  1,399,291   $   3,546,077
                                       400,000        8.18%         $25.25    1/3/10     $  6,351,836   $  16,096,799

Garrett J. Girvan ............          50,000        1.02%         $44.50    2/9/10     $  1,399,291   $   3,546,077
                                       175,000        3.58%         $25.25    1/3/10     $  2,778,928   $   7,042,349

Steven M. Harris..............          50,000        1.02%         $16.00    4/13/10    $    503,116   $   1,274,994
                                        10,000        0.20%         $44.50    2/9/10     $    279,858   $     709,215
                                        15,000        0.31%         $25.25    1/3/10     $    238,194   $     603,630

Jonathan B. Marx..............          10,000        0.20%         $44.50    2/9/10     $    279,858   $     709,215
                                        15,000        0.31%         $25.25    1/3/10     $    238,194   $     603,630

Carol Sorrick.................          35,000        0.72%         $44.50    2/9/10     $    979,503   $   2,482,254
                                        15,000        0.31%         $25.25    1/3/10     $    238,194   $     603,630
</TABLE>

(1)  Options  granted under the 1995 Long-Term  Incentive Plan generally  become
     exercisable at a rate of one-third of the shares of common stock underlying
     to the option at the end of each year until  fully  vested or the  employee
     leaves the Company.  Options  granted under the 1998 Stock  Incentive  Plan
     generally  become  exercisable for 25% of the option shares upon completion
     of one (1) year of service measured from the grant date and for the balance
     of  the  option  shares  in  a  series  of  36  successive   equal  monthly
     installments over the three (3) year period of service thereafter.
(2)  The Company  granted options to employees to purchase  4,890,500  shares of
     common stock for the year ended September 30, 2000.
(3)  The exercise price may be paid in (a) cash, (b) shares of common stock held
     for the requisite  period to avoid a charge to the  Company's  earnings for
     financial  reporting  purposes,  (c) through a same-day sale program or (d)
     subject to the  discretion  of the Plan  Administrator,  by  delivery  of a
     full-recourse,  secured promissory note payable to the Company. Numbers are
     rounded to the nearest tenth.
(4)  The term of the options is typically 10 years.
(5)  Potential realizable value is based on the assumption that the price of the
     common stock  underlying  the option  appreciates at the annual rate shown,
     compounded  annually  from the date of grant  until  the end of the  option
     term. The values are calculated in accordance with rules promulgated by the
     SEC and do not reflect the Company's estimate of future stock appreciation.

Aggregated  Year-End  Option  Values.  The  following  table sets forth  certain
information  concerning  the number of options  exercised by the Named  Officers
during the year ended  September 30, 2000,  and the number of shares  covered by
both exercisable and  unexercisable  stock options held by the Named Officers as
of September 30, 2000. Also reported are values for "in-the-money"  options that
represent  the  positive  spread  between  the  respective  exercise  prices  of
outstanding  options and the fair market value of the Company's  common stock as
of September 30, 2000 ($5.97).
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                Number of Securities
                                                               Underlying Unexercised         Value of Unexercised
                                                                      Options at             in-the-Money Options at
                                   Shares                       September 30, 1999(#)         September 30, 1999($)
                                Acquired on       Value       ---------------------------  ---------------------------
Name                            Exercise (#)   Realized ($)   Exercisable   Unexercisable  Exercisable   Unexercisable
- -----------------------------   ------------   ------------   -----------   -------------  -----------   -------------
<S>                                   <C>      <C>                <C>              <C>      <C>          <C>
Lawrence B. Brilliant........         15,818   $    316,926       166,786          721,564  $        -   $           -

Garrett J. Girvan............         50,000   $    128,125        59,895          355,105  $        -   $           -

Steven M. Harris.............              -   $          -        50,623          144,377  $        -   $           -

Jonathan B. Marx.............              -   $          -        26,378           88,622  $        -   $           -

Carol Sorrick................              -   $          -        13,541           86,459  $        -   $           -
</TABLE>

Director Compensation

Members of the Board of Directors,  who are not employees of the Company or of a
subsidiary  of the  Company,  are each paid a monthly  retainer fee of $1,000 in
connection with their attendance and participation at Board meetings.  Mr. Simon
is paid an additional  $1,500 per month for his services as Vice Chairman of the
Board. In addition, Board members are reimbursed for certain reasonable expenses
incurred in attending Board or committee meetings.

Upon joining the Board, each non-employee  Board member also receives a purchase
option  grant for  shares of common  stock  under the 1998  Plan.  In  addition,
existing  non-employee  directors will each receive  options to purchase  20,000
shares of common stock at the annual stockholders meeting to be held during 2001
and additional  options to purchase  20,000 shares of common stock at each third
Annual  Stockholders  Meeting  thereafter  if  such  person  continues  to  be a
director.


Members of the Board of Directors, who are employees or officers of the Company,
or of a subsidiary  of the Company,  do not receive any extra  compensation  for
serving on the Board of Directors.


A description  of other  transactions  between  directors and the Company is set
forth below in "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions".

Employment and Change of Control Agreements

On April 7, 1998, the Company entered into an employment agreement with Lawrence
B.  Brilliant,  a director of the Company,  pursuant to which Dr.  Brilliant was
appointed Vice Chairman of the Board,  President and Chief Executive  Officer of
the  Company  for a term of three  years.  Under  the  terms of this  employment
agreement,  Dr. Brilliant was granted an annual salary of $250,000 per year plus
such bonuses as the  Compensation  Committee  may  establish  from time to time.
Concurrently  with the  signing  of this  employment  agreement,  Dr.  Brilliant
received a  Non-Qualified  Stock Option to purchase  from the Company a total of
125,000 shares of common stock under the terms of the Long Term Incentive Plan.

<PAGE>

Dr.  Brilliant  resigned as Chief  Executive  Officer of the  Company  effective
December 4, 2000, and as Chairman of the Board of Directors  effective  December
17,  2000.  In January  2001,  the  Company  and Dr.  Brilliant  entered  into a
"Separation  and  Release  Agreement".  Under  the terms of the  Separation  and
Release  Agreement,  Dr. Brilliant  received a one time cash payment of $892,831
(minus  withholding  taxes).  In addition,  Dr. Brilliant will receive an annual
payment of $10,000,  payable in  accordance  with the Company's  normal  payroll
cycles  and remain  eligible  for  medical,  dental,  vision and life  insurance
coverage under the Company's  insurance plans until December 31, 2002. All stock
options granted to Dr.  Brilliant ceased vesting as of December 4, 2000, and Dr.
Brilliant is entitled to exercise vested stock options through March 5, 2001.


Under the Company's 1998 Stock  Incentive Plan, in the event that the Company is
acquired by merger or sale of substantially all of its assets,  each outstanding
option  or  other  award  under  either  the  1998  Stock  Incentive  Plan  will
immediately  vest,  except to the extent the  Company's  obligations  under that
option  or  award  assumed  by  the  successor  corporation  or  such  successor
corporation substitutes an award with substantially the same economic value.

Under the  options  issued  pursuant to the  Company's  Amended  1995  Long-Term
Incentive Plan, which were incorporated into the 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, upon
an  acquisition  of the Company  pursuant to a merger or asset sale,  the option
will, at the discretion of the Stock Option Committee,  either be assumed by any
successor entity,  with or without  accelerated vesting of the option shares, or
terminate upon the  acquisition  following a thirty (30)-day period during which
the option will be exercisable in full on an accelerated basis.

In the event of a change of control,  (1) each  employee of the Company would be
credited  with 12 months of service in addition to their  actual time of service
for  purposes  of option  vesting,  (2) in the event an  employee or director is
terminated  without  cause or is  removed  as a  director  within 12 months of a
change of control,  all of the  options  granted to such  employee or  director,
whether  granted  under the  Company's  stock  option plans or  otherwise,  will
automatically  vest, (3) in the event an executive officer (other than the Chief
Executive  Officer) or certain key employees are terminated without cause within
12 months of a change of control, such executive officer or key employee will be
entitled to a lump sum  payment  equal to 1.5 times the sum of his or her salary
prior to such termination and his or her last annual bonus, and (4) in the event
the Chief  Executive  Officer is terminated  without cause within 12 months of a
change of control,  such Chief Executive  Officer will be entitled to a lump sum
payment equal to 2 times the sum of his or her salary prior to such  termination
and his or her last annual bonus.

Indemnification of Directors and Limitation of Liability

The  Company's  Bylaws  provide that the Company may  indemnify  its  directors,
officers and other employees and agents to the fullest extent  permitted by law.
The Company has also entered into  agreements  to indemnify  its  directors  and
executive  officers,  in addition  to the  indemnification  provided  for in the
Company's Bylaws.  The Company believes that these provisions and agreements are
necessary to attract and retain qualified directors and executive  officers.  At
present,  there is no pending  litigation or proceeding  involving any director,
officer, employee or agent of the Company where indemnification will be required
or  permitted.  The  Company  is not  aware  of  any  threatened  litigation  or
proceeding  that might  result in a claim for such  indemnification.  Insofar as
indemnification  for  liabilities  arising  under  the  Securities  Act  may  be
permitted to directors,  officers or persons controlling the Company pursuant to
the foregoing provisions,  the Company has been informed that, in the opinion of
the Commission,  such  indemnification  is against public policy as expressed in
the Securities Act and is therefore unenforceable.



<PAGE>


Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management


The  following  table  sets  forth  certain  information  known  to the  Company
regarding  beneficial  ownership  of the common stock as of November 30, 2000 by
(i) each  person  known by the Company to be the  beneficial  owner of more than
five percent of the  outstanding  shares of the common stock,  (ii) each current
director of the Company, (iii) the Chief Executive Officer and each of the Named
Officers  and (iv) all  executive  officers  and  directors  of the Company as a
group.  All shares are subject to the named  person's sole voting and investment
power except where otherwise indicated.

Beneficial  ownership  is  determined  in  accordance  with  the  rules  of  the
Commission.  Shares of common stock, which are issued and outstanding are deemed
to be  beneficially  owned by any person who has or shares  voting or investment
power with  respect to such  shares.  Shares of common  stock which are issuable
upon exercise of options or warrants are deemed to be issued and outstanding and
beneficially  owned by any person who has or shares voting or  investment  power
over such shares only if the  options or  warrants in question  are  exercisable
within 60 days of November  30, 2000 and, in any event,  solely for  purposes of
calculating  that person's  percentage  ownership of the Company's  common stock
(and not for  purposes of  calculating  the  percentage  ownership  of any other
person).

The  number  of  shares  of  common  stock  deemed  outstanding  and used in the
denominator  for  determining  percentage  ownership  for each person equals (i)
26,650,555  shares of common stock outstanding as of November 30, 2000 plus (ii)
such  number of shares of common  stock as are  issuable  pursuant  to  options,
warrants or convertible  securities  held by that person (and excluding  options
held by other  persons)  which may be  exercised  within 60 days of November 30,
2000.
                                                     Number of    Percentage of
                                                   Common Stock    Outstanding
                                                      Shares          Shares
                                                   Beneficially   Beneficially
     Name of Beneficial Owner                          Owned          Owned
     -------------------------------------         -------------- --------------
     Executive Officers and Directors:
        Lawrence B. Brilliant (1)                         456,093          1.7
        Garrett J. Girvan (2)                             174,061          *
        Steven M. Harris (3)                               78,707          *
        Ronald I. Simon (4)                                56,374          *
        Edward A. Bennett (5)                             132,395          *
        George C. Chan (6)                                 20,000          -
        Robert C. Harris, Jr.  (7)                         82,292          -
        Jeffrey A. Bowden (6)                              20,000          -
        Atam Lalchandani (8)                               95,326          *
        Jonathan Marx (9)                                  35,681          -
        Carol Sorrick (10)                                 21,458          -
        As a Group (twelve):                            1,172,387          4.4

     5% Owners:
        Pacific Century CyberWorks Limited              5,000,000         18.8
        Mediacom LLC                                    3,500,000         13.1

        *    Less than 1%

(1)  Includes 292,202 shares issuable pursuant to options  exercisable within 60
     days of November 30, 2000. Mr. Brilliant  resigned as Chairman of the Board
     and Chief Executive Officer in December 2000.
(2)  Includes 114,061 shares issuable pursuant to options  exercisable within 60
     days of November 30, 2000.
(3)  Includes 62,707 shares issuable pursuant to options  exercisable  within 60
     days of November 30, 2000.
(4)  Includes 31,416 shares issuable pursuant to options  exercisable  within 60
     days of November 30, 2000.
(5)  Includes 117,395 shares issuable pursuant to options  exercisable within 60
     days of November 30, 2000.
(6)  Messrs.  Chan and Bowden  received  options to  purchase  20,000  shares of
     common  stock  effective  upon  their  election  as  directors,  under  the
     automatic   option  grant  program  of  the  1998  Plan.  The  options  are
     immediately  exercisable  for  restricted  shares of common  stock that are
     subject to certain repurchase rights by the Company.
(7)  Includes 82,292 shares issuable pursuant to options  exercisable  within 60
     days of November 30, 2000.
(8)  Includes 30,000 shares issuable pursuant to options  exercisable  within 60
     days of November 30, 2000.
(9)  Includes 35,681 shares issuable pursuant to options  exercisable  within 60
     days of November 30, 2000.
(10) Includes 21,458 shares issuable pursuant to options  exercisable  within 60
     days of November 30, 2000.
<PAGE>


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Mediacom, LLC

The  Company's  wholly-owned  subsidiary,  ISP Channel,  Inc.,  has an Affiliate
Agreement  with  Medicom,  LLC,  a more than  five  percent  stockholder  of the
Company.  Mediacom received the shares of the Company's common stock owned by it
in connection  with, and as an inducement to enter into and perform  under,  the
Affiliate  Agreement.  The Affiliate  Agreement grants ISP Channel the exclusive
right to provide  Internet  access and related  services over  Mediacom's  cable
infrastructure for the next seven years and provides for a revenue split between
ISP Channel and  Mediacom.  As a result of this  transaction,  Mediacom  has the
right to  nominate  members  to the  Board of  Directors  in  proportion  to its
ownership  interest of the common stock,  and has the right to nominate at least
one  member  to the  Board of  Directors  if  Mediacom  owns more than 5% of the
outstanding common stock.

Strategic Investments


The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, SoftNet Ventures, Inc, has made strategic
investments of $250,000 each in YourDay.com, Inc. and YourStuff.com, Inc., which
represents less than 5% of the voting power of each company.  Edward A. Bennett,
a director of the Company,  served on the Board of Directors of both YourDay.com
and  YourStuff.com  at the time of the investment.  For the year ended September
30, 2000,  YourDay.com was purchased by  deltathree.com,  Inc. and YourStuff was
purchased by SenseNet, Inc.


Investment Banking Services

Robert Harris,  Jr., a director of the Company, is a senior managing director of
Bear,  Stearns & Co., Inc., which, from time to time,  provides the Company with
investment banking services.  For the year ended September 30, 2000, the Company
paid to Bear, Stearns & Co. for such services approximately $522,000.

                COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 16(a) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT


Under the securities  laws of the United States,  the Company's  directors,  its
executive  (and certain  other)  officers,  and any person holding more than ten
percent of the common  stock are  required to report  their  ownership of common
stock and any changes in that  ownership to the  Commission  and any exchange or
quotation  system on which the common  stock is listed or quoted.  Specific  due
dates for these  reports  have been  established  and the Company is required to
report in this proxy statement any failure to file by these dates.  For the year
ended September 30, 2000, to the knowledge of the Company,  all of these filings
were  satisfied by its  directors and officers.  In making this  statement,  the
Company has relied on the written  representations of its directors and officers
and copies of the  reports  they have filed  with the  Commission.  For the year
ended September 30, 2000, the Company did not have any ten percent stockholders.


<PAGE>


                                     PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K


(a)  Financial Statements and Exhibits:

(1) Financial Statements. The following consolidated financial statements of the
registrant and its subsidiaries are included in Part II Item 8:

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
Report of Independent Auditors KPMG LLP ..................................   33
Report of Independent Accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .............   34
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of September 30, 2000 and 1999 ............   35
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three years
   ended September 30, 2000 ..............................................   36
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity (Deficit) for
   the three years ended September 30, 2000 ..............................   37
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years
   ended September 30, 2000 ..............................................   38
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ............................   39-58


(2) Financial  Statement  Schedule.  The following schedules for the three years
ended September 30, 1999 are submitted herewith:

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts...........................   71

All  other  schedules  are  omitted  due  to  the  required  information  is not
applicable or is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.

(3)  Exhibits.  See Index to Exhibits  included in this Form 10-K on pages 68 to
69.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

Current report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on August 25, 2000

<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  the  registrant  has duly  caused  this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

SOFTNET SYSTEMS, INC.



/s/ Garrett J. Girvan
- -----------------------
Garrett J. Girvan
Chief Executive Officer


/s/ Susan Dolce
- -----------------------
Susan Dolce
Controller

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                              Title                           Date
- -----------------------    --------------------------------   ------------------


                                Chairman of the Board of
/s/ Garrett J. Girvan                  Directors
- -----------------------          Chief Executive Officer        January 16, 2001
Garrett J. Girvan



/s/ Ronald I. Simon          Vice Chairman of the Board of
- -----------------------                Directors                January 16, 2001
Ronald I. Simon


/s/ Edward A. Bennett
- -----------------------
Edward A. Bennett                      Director                 January 16, 2001


/s/ George C. Chan
- -----------------------
George C. Chan                         Director                 January 16, 2001


/s/ Robert C. Harris, J
- -----------------------
Robert C. Harris, Jr.                  Director                 January 16, 2001


/s/ Atam Lalchandani
- -----------------------
Atam Lalchandani                       Director                 January 16, 2001


/s/ Jeffrey A. Bowden
- -----------------------
Jeffrey A. Bowden                      Director                 January 16, 2001


<PAGE>


                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                                Index to Exhibits
                                  Item 14(a)(3)
 Exhibit
   No.                   Description of Document
- --------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   2.1    Agreement  and Plan of Merger by and among  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc., a
          Delaware corporation,  SSI Merger Sub, Inc., a Washington  corporation
          and a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of SoftNet,  Laptop Lane  Limited,  a
          Washington  corporation,  and R. Bruce  Merrell  and M.  Grant  Sharp.
          Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K,
          dated May 9, 2000.

   3.1    Amended and Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation of the Registrant.
          Incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Quarterly  Report on Form
          10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1999.

   3.2    By-Laws of the Company.  Incorporated  by  reference to the  Company's
          Registration Statement on Form S-3/A dated April 22, 1999.

   4.1    Form of Indenture between SoftNet Systems, Inc. and U.S. Trust Company
          of California, as Trustee,  including Form of Note, relating to the 9%
          Debentures.  Incorporated by reference to exhibit 4.2 to the Company's
          Registration Statement on Form S-4.

   10.1   SoftNet  Systems,  Inc. 1995 Long Term Incentive Plan  Incorporated by
          reference  to  exhibit  10.3 to the  Company's  Annual  Report on Form
          10-KSB for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995.

   10.2   SoftNet  Systems,  Inc. 1998 Stock  Incentive  Plan.  Incorporated  by
          reference to exhibit 99.1 to the Company's  Registration  Statement on
          Form S-8, dated May 10, 1999.

   10.3   SoftNet  Systems,   Inc.  1999  Supplemental   Stock  Incentive  Plan.
          Incorporated   by  reference   to  exhibit   99.1  to  the   Company's
          Registration Statement on Form S-8, dated June 8, 1999.

   10.4   $660,000  principal amount of Micrographic  Technology  Corporation 6%
          Convertible Subordinated Secured Debentures due 2002 to R.C.W. Mauran.
          Incorporated  by reference to exhibit  10.10 to the  Company's  Annual
          Report on Form 10-KSB for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995.

   10.5   Securities  Purchase  Agreement  dated as of January 12, 1999,  by and
          among the  Company  and the Buyers  listed  therein.  Incorporated  by
          reference to exhibit  10.38 to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form
          8-K, dated January 26, 1999.

   10.6   Registration  Rights  Agreement  dated as of January  12,  1999 by and
          among the  Company  and the Buyers  listed  therein.  Incorporated  by
          reference to the  Company's  Current  Report on Form 8-K dated January
          26, 1999.

   10.7   Form of  Warrant  to  purchase  shares  of Common  Stock,  dated as of
          January 12, 1999,  issued by the Company to each of the Buyers  listed
          therein. Incorporation by reference to the Company's Current Report on
          Form 8-K dated January 26, 1999.

   10.8   Stock Purchase Agreement dated April 12, 1999 between SoftNet Systems,
          Inc.  and  Hector  R.  Gonzalez.  Incorporated  by  reference  to  the
          Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 27, 1999.

   10.9   Registration  Rights  Agreement  dated April 12, 1999 between  SoftNet
          Systems, Inc. and Hector R. Gonzales. Incorporated by reference to the
          Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 27, 1999.


<PAGE>

 Exhibit
   No.                   Description of Document
- --------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   10.10  Stock  Purchase  Agreement  by and between  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc and
          Pacific   Century   Cyberworks   Limited,   dated  October  12,  1999.
          Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K, dated October 21,
          1999.

   10.11  Stock  Purchase  Agreement by and between  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc. and
          Mediacom,  LLC, dated November 4, 1999.  Incorporated  by reference to
          the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1999.


   10.12  Registration  Rights  Agreement by and between SoftNet  Systems,  Inc.
          and Mediacom,  LLC, dated November 4, 1999.  Incorporated by reference
          to the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1999.

   10.13  Stockholder  Agreement  by  and  between  SoftNet  Systems,  Inc,  and
          Mediacom, LLC, date November 4, 1999. Incorporated by reference to the
          Company's Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 1999.

   10.14  Letter  confirming  employment  of Dr.  Lawrence B.  Brilliant,  dated
          April 7, 1998.  Incorporated  by reference to the Company's  Form 10-Q
          for the quarter ended June 30, 1998.


   10.15  Separation and Release Agreement by and between SoftNet Systems,  Inc.
          and Dr. Lawrence B. Brilliant


   21     Subsidiaries

   23.1   Consent of KPMG LLP

   23.2   Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

   27     Financial Data Schedule



<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                     SoftNet Systems, Inc. and Subsidiaries
                 Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                                 (In thousands)

                                                                          Charged to
                                           Balance at      Charged to        Other
                                          Beginning of     Costs and       Accounts      Deductions      Balance at
              Description                    Period         Expenses       Describe       Describe     End of Period
- --------------------------------------    -------------  --------------  -------------- -------------- --------------
<S>                                       <C>            <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts:
   Year ended September 30, 2000......    $          28  $          233  $         -    $       193 (b)$           68
   Year ended September 30, 1999......                -              31          313 (a)        316 (b)            28
   Year ended September 30, 1998......                -               -            -              -                 -

Valuation Allowance on Deferred Tax
   Asset:
   Year ended September 30, 2000......    $      22,465  $      (14,218) $         -    $         -     $       8,247
   Year ended September 30, 1999......            7,277          15,188            -              -            22,465
   Year ended September 30, 1998......            3,158           4,119            -              -             7,277

Reserves in Connection with
   Discontinued Operations:
   Year ended September 30, 2000:
     Estimated losses through closure.    $           -  $       22,692  $         -    $         -    $       22,692
     Asset write downs................                -          89,234            -         82,805 (c)         6,429
     Contract terminations............                -          16,143            -              -            16,143
     Retention and severance..........                -          10,318            -              -            10,318
     Other............................                -           1,013            -              -             1,013
                                          -------------  --------------  -----------    -----------    --------------

                                          $           -  $      139,400  $         -    $    82,805    $       56,595
                                          =============  ==============  ===========    ===========    ==============

<FN>
(a) Reserve acquired related to Intelligent Communications, Inc. acquisition.
(b) Amounts written off, net of recoveries.
(c) Net assets associated with discontinued operations written off.

</FN>
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.15
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>0002.txt
<DESCRIPTION>BRILLIANT SEPERATION AND RELEASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

                        SEPARATION AND RELEASE AGREEMENT


The parties to this  Separation and Release  Agreement  (Agreement)  are SoftNet
Systems,  Inc., a Delaware  corporation  ("Company")  and Lawrence B. Brilliant,
(Employee) RECITALS

A.   Employee was employed as Chief Executive Officer for SoftNet Systems, Inc.

B.   Employee resigned as Chief Executive Officer effective December 4, 2000,

C.   Employee  resigned as Director and  Chairman of the Board of Directors  for
     SoftNet Systems, Inc., effective December17, 2000.

D.   Employee has an Employment  Agreement with Company dated April 7, 1998, and
     amended on October 29, 1999 and November 20, 2000 (Attachments 1, 2, and 3)
     and an Indemnification Agreement dated April 14, 1999 (Attachment 4) all of
     which are incorporated herein by reference

Therefore,  in consideration of the mutual promises set forth below, the parties
agree as follows:

1. The Company agrees to provide to Employee upon the legally  enforceable  date
of this Agreement  (seven (7) days following the execution of the Agreement) the
sum of $975,000  minus items listed on  Attachment  5).  Employer  will withhold
taxes on the amount paid in  accordance  with all  applicable  local,  state and
federal  laws.  Employee  will also  receive  payment for all  vacation  accrued
through December 4, 2000.

2. Employee will (a) receive installment  payments of $10,000 annually,  paid in
accordance  with the  Company's  normal  payroll  cycles,  and (b)  will  remain
eligible  for  medial,  dental,  vision and life  insurance  coverage  under the
Company's  insurance  plans  until  December  31,  2002.  If at any  time,  from
execution of this agreement  until December 31, 2002,  Employee is ineligible to
receive  Company health  benefits,  the Company will reimburse  Employee for his
COBRA premium payments for health insurance coverage for Employee and his family
until December 31, 2002 (or, if Employee are  ineligible for COBRA,  payment for
any  other  reasonable  health  insurance  plan  providing  comparable  coverage
Employee may acquire). Employee may, in his sole discretion, terminate provision
(a) of this  paragraph 2 and shall then be paid  $20,000,  less amounts  already
paid pursuant to paragraph (a).

3. All stock  options  granted to Employee  will cease to vest as of December 4,
2000,  however Employee will be eligible to exercise such vested options through
March 5, 2001.

4. Such  agreements and commitments by the Company as specified in paragraphs 1,
2 and 3 are in full payment of any and all claims  arising from,  related to, or
in connection with Employee's  employment with the Company,  including,  but not
limited  to,  all  claims for breach of  contract,  fraud,  wrongful  discharge,
misrepresentation, defamation, violation of public policy, breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing,  personal injury,  emotional  distress,
sexual harassment,  and age, race, sex or other prohibited  discrimination;  all
liabilities for the payment of any sums for accrued earnings, bonuses, severance
pay, sick leave or holiday  plans,  and any employee  benefits;  and  attorneys'
fees.

4.  Employee  represents  and  warrants the Employee has returned to Company all
Company's  property,  books,  lists,  records,  other  documents and  equipment.
Employee  covenants that should such items be later discovered in his possession
or any  additional  items of  Company's  property,  Employee  agrees to promptly
return such property to the Company.  Employee acknowledges that he has received
any personal property belonging to him that was on Company's premises.

5. Employee,  for himself, his successors,  administrators,  heirs, and assigns,
hereby fully releases,  waives and forever  discharges  Company,  any affiliated
companies  or  subsidiaries,   alter  egos,  their   predecessors,   successors,
affiliates,  assigns,  shareholders,  directors, officers, agents, attorneys and
employees, whether past, present or future (the "Released Parties") from any all
actions, suits, debts, demands,  damages, claims judgments or liabilities of any
nature including costs and attorneys' fees, whether known or unknown arising out
of Employee's  employment with or separation  from any of the Released  Parties,
such as (by way of  example  only)  any  claim for  bonus,  severance,  or other
benefits  apart from the benefits  stated herein;  breach of contract;  wrongful
discharge;  impairment of economic opportunity; any claim under common-law or at
equity;  defamation;  intentional infliction of emotional harm; any tort; claims
for   reimbursement,   claims   for   commissions;   or  claim  for   employment
discrimination  under any  state,  federal,  local law,  statute  or  regulation
including  but not limited to, claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 or under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act. However,  both the
Company and Employee recognize that there are prior indemnification  agreements,
including  but not  limited to that  certain  agreement  between the Company and
Employee  dated April 14,  1999  (Attachment  4) which  remain in full force and
effect.  The Company  acknowledges  that  nothing in this  Agreement  limits the
Employee's rights or remedies under said  indemnification  agreements  including
but not limited to the Employee's rights as indemnitee to sue for breach of said
agreements  or to  otherwise  seek  enforcement  and/or  interpretation  of said
agreements or to be fully  compensated for all expenses incurred in defending an
action  instituted by the Company to enforce or interpret  said  indemnification
agreements.  Employee  acknowledges  and agrees that this  release,  the release
contained  in  paragraph 7, and the covenant not to sue set forth in paragraph 9
are essential and material terms of the Agreement and that, without such release
and covenant  not to sue, no  agreement  would have been reached by the parties.
Employee  understands and acknowledges the significance and consequences of this
release and this Agreement.


6.  Employees  specifically  waives and releases  Company from all claims he may
have as of the date he signs this Agreement  regarding  claims or rights arising
under the Age  Discrimination  in Employment Act of 1967, as amended,  29 U.S.C.
ss. 621 ("ADEA").  This paragraph does not waive rights or claims that may arise
under the ADEA after the date Employee  signs this  Agreement.  Employee  agrees
that this Agreement  provides benefits to which he is not otherwise entitled and
that Company has advised  Employee to consult an attorney  prior to signing this
Agreement.  Employee  has been  provided  twenty-one  (21) days within  which to
consider  whether he should sign this Agreement and waive and release all claims
and rights  arising under the ADEA.  Employee shall have seven days within which
to revoke  this  Agreement  and this  Agreement  shall not become  effective  or
enforceable until that revocation period has expired.

7. It is understood  and agreed that this is a full and final  release  applying
not only to all claims as defined in  paragraphs  6, 7 and 9 that are  presently
known,  anticipated or disclosed to Employee,  but also to all claims as defined
in paragraphs 6, 7 and 9 that are presently known, unknown,  unanticipated,  and
undisclosed to Employee. With the exception of prior indemnification agreements,
including  but not  limited to that  certain  agreement  between the Company and
Employee  dated April 14,  1999  (Attachment  4) which  remain in full force and
effect,  Employee  hereby  waives any and all rights or benefits that he may now
have,  or may in the  future  have,  under the terms of  California  Civil  Code
Section 1542, which provides as follows:

                  A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor
                  does not know or  suspect to exist in his favor at the time of
                  executing  the  release,  which  if  known  by him  must  have
                  materially affected his settlement with the debtor.

8. To the maximum extent permitted by law,  Employee  covenants not to sue or to
institute or cause to be  instituted  any action in any federal,  state or local
agency or court  against  any of the  Released  Parties,  for any of the  claims
released  in  paragraphs  6 and 7 of this  Agreement  which arise out of actions
prior  to the  signing  of this  release.  Nothing  in this  Agreement  shall be
construed as for closing the Employee from instituting action for causes such as
defamation that occur subsequent to the signing of this Agreement.

9.  Employees and Company agree that neither  Employee nor the Released  Parties
admit liability for, or violation of, any contract,  any federal, state or local
statute or regulation, or any right protected under the common law.

10.  Employee  acknowledges  that he (a) fully  understands his right to discuss
this  Agreement  with his private  attorney,  (b) has  carefully  read and fully
understands  this entire  Agreement,  and (c) is voluntarily  entering into this
Agreement.

11. It is intended that the  provisions of this  Agreement  shall be enforced to
the fullest extent  permissible  under the laws and public  policies  applied in
each  jurisdiction  in which  enforcement  is  sought.  The  provisions  of this
Agreement  shall be construed in accordance  with the internal laws of the State
of  California.  In the event that any paragraph,  subparagraph  or provision of
this Agreement shall be determined to be partially  contrary to governing law or
otherwise  unenforceable,  the  paragraph,  subparagraph,  or provision and this
Agreement  shall be enforced to the maximum extent  permitted by law, and if any
paragraph, subparagraph or provision of this Agreement shall be determined to be
totally  contrary to  governing  law or  otherwise  totally  unenforceable,  the
paragraph,  subparagraph,  or provision shall be severed and disregarded and the
remainder of this Agreement shall be enforced to the maximum extent permitted by
law.

12.  The  parties  agree  that  (except  in  connection   with  required  public
disclosure,  in connection  with tax reporting,  or pursuant to legal process in
any legal action to enforce the terms of this Agreement) they, their agents, and
their family members, directors, officers, employees, and other Released Parties
shall keep  confidential  the terms of this Agreement.  Employee and the Company
further  agree not to disparage in the future  either the Employee or any of the
Released Parties.

13. For one year following Employee's signing of this Agreement,  Employee shall
not and shall not cause or facilitate  any other person to solicit or enter into
an  agreement  for  employment  or  consulting,  joint  venture  or  partnership
relationship  or agreement  with anyone who is an employee or  consultant of the
Company.  This shall not limit  Employee from (a) continuing  existing  business
relationships  or agreements or (b) having such a relationship or agreement with
anyone who is or has been an employee or  consultant of the Company which is not
inconsistent  with  on-going  performance  of  the  employee's  or  consultant's
responsibilities and obligations to the Company.

14.  Employee  understands  and agrees that in the course of his employment with
Company, he has acquired  confidential  information and trade secrets concerning
the  operations  of  Company,  Company's  owners,  subsidiaries  and  affiliates
(collectively  the  "Companies"),  including,  but not limited  to,  information
relating to the  organization,  employment  policies,  compensation  and benefit
plans,  and  personnel  and  any  data,  formulae,  specifications,  proprietary
knowledge or  information,  customer  list,  marketing  strategies,  pricing and
credit policies,  trade secrets,  inventions or processes,  owned,  developed or
used  in  the  course  of   Company's   business   (collectively   "Confidential
Information").  Employee  covenants  and agrees  that he will not  disclose  any
Confidential Information which is not available to the general public.

15.  Employee agrees that this Agreement  constitutes  the entire  understanding
between the parties with  reference to the subject  matter of this Agreement and
all prior negotiations and understandings,  verbal or written,  between Employee
and Company, relating to the items and things referred to in this Agreement have
been merged herein.

16. Any and all  disputes  arising  out of or in any way  related to  Employee's
employment with, or separation from, Company, as well as any and all disputes or
claims  arising  out of or in any  way  related  to this  Agreement,  including,
without limitations,  fraud in the inducement of this Agreement,  or relating to
the general validity or enforceability of this Agreement,  shall be submitted to
final and binding  arbitration before an arbitrator of the American  Arbitration
Association,  San Francisco,  California,  in accordance  with the rules of that
body governing  commercial  disputes,  and prevailing party shall be entitled to
reasonable  costs and  attorneys'  fees.  Judgment on the award  rendered by the
arbitrator may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.

17. The parties hereto agree that if any covenant, paragraph or clause contained
in this Agreement, other than paragraphs 6, 7 and 9 is declared illegal, null or
void,  or against  public  policy,  for any  reason,  the  remaining  covenants,
paragraphs or clauses contained in this Agreement shall not be affected thereby.

18. Each  reference to the Company  herein shall  include all  subsidiaries  and
affiliates of the Company.

19.  The  Company  and  Employee  agree not to  disparage  each other in any way
whatsoever



Executed at San Francisco, California, this the ______ day of January, 2001.



SoftNet Systems, Inc.


Garrett J. Girvan
Chairman and CEO




Accepted and Agreed to:




Lawrence B. Brilliant, M.D.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>3
<FILENAME>0003.txt
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>


                             EXHIBIT 21 Subsidiaries


                              SoftNet Systems, Inc.
                     List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant
                               September 30, 2000


The following companies are wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company:

        Subsidiary                                    State of Incorporation
        -------------------------------------------   ----------------------
        Aerzone Corporation                           Delaware

        ISP Channel, Inc.                             Delaware

        Intelligent Communications, Inc.              Delaware

        Laptop Lane Limited (1)                       Washington


        (1)      A wholly-owned subsidiary of Aerzone Corporation.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<FILENAME>0004.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF AUDITORS KPMG
<TEXT>

                        EXHIBIT 23.1 Consent of KPMG LLP

                               Consent of KPMG LLP

We consent to incorporation  by reference in the  registration  statements (Nos.
333-45335,  333-57337,  333-65593, 333-71887, 333-86415, and 333-38972) on Forms
S-3 and (Nos. 333-78177, 333-80197, 333-84625, 333-33140 and 333-32962) on Forms
S-8 of SoftNet  Systems,  Inc. of our report dated January 5, 2001,  relating to
the consolidated balance sheets of SoftNet Systems,  Inc. and Subsidiaries as of
September  30,  2000  and  1999,  and the  related  consolidated  statements  of
operations, stockholders' equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of the years
in the two-year  period ended  September  30,  2000,  and the related  financial
statement  schedule,  which report  appears in the  September  30, 2000,  annual
report on Form 10-K of SoftNet Systems, Inc.



/KPMG LLP/

San Francisco, California
January 12, 2001


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.2
<SEQUENCE>5
<FILENAME>0005.txt
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS PWC
<TEXT>




               EXHIBIT 23.2 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP


                       Consent of Independent Accountants



We hereby consent to incorporation  by reference in the Registration  Statements
(Nos. 333-38972,  333-45335,  333-57337,  333-65593, 333-71887 and 333-86415) on
Forms S-3 and (Nos. 333-32962,  333-33140,  333-78177, 333-80197, and 333-84625)
on Forms S-8 of Softnet  Systems,  Inc.  of our report  dated  December  1, 1998
except for Note 8 regarding the Senior Subordinated  Convertible Notes for which
the date is January  13,  1999 and Note 3 regarding  the  discontinuance  of the
document  management  segment  for  which  the  date is April  13,  1999 and the
discontinuance  of the cable-based  Internet services segment for which the date
is  December  7,  2000,  relating  to the  financial  statements  and  financial
statement  schedule for the year ended  September  30, 1998 which appear in this
Form 10-K.



/PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP/

San Jose, California
January 12, 2001
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>6
<FILENAME>0006.txt
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>


EXHIBIT 27        Financial Data Schedule Form 10-K


This schedule contains summary information extracted from Form 10-K for the year
ended  September  30, 2000 and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such
Form 10-K.
</LEGEND>

<CIK>                                      0000097196
<NAME>                           SOFTNET SYSTEMS INC.
<MULTIPLIER>                                    1,000
<CURRENCY>                                 US Dollars


<S>                                               <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                                  12-mos
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                         SEP-30-2000
<PERIOD-END>                              SEP-30-2000
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                 1.000
<CASH>                                         44,731
<SECURITIES>                                  128,403
<RECEIVABLES>                                   2,626
<ALLOWANCES>                                       68
<INVENTORY>                                     4,128
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                              182,192
<PP&E>                                          5,851
<DEPRECIATION>                                  1,172
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                212,306
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          68,288
<BONDS>                                         4,104
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                               0
<PREFERRED>                                         0
<COMMON>                                      504,066
<OTHER-SE>                                   (28,577)
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                  212,306
<SALES>                                         9,927
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                9,927
<CGS>                                          10,465
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  39,905
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                8,572
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                    0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                             11,317
<INCOME-PRETAX>                              (20,554)
<INCOME-TAX>                                        0
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                          (20,554)
<DISCONTINUED>                              (211,799)
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                     0
<CHANGES>                                           0
<NET-INCOME>                                (232,353)
<EPS-BASIC>                                    (9.88)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                  (9.88)



</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
